ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, 13 a.m. 00 is a strange time to start a meeting. We have an hour and a half to complete our agenda, and I think that should work. Mr Degroote is on his way and will join us in 15 minutes. That is why I propose that we start with agenda item No. 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u2	Mr President, Minister, I will be brief. Without it being an obsession, you will understand, I imagine, that it is quite normal for me to be concerned about the situation in Verviers prison. I'm saving you the history you know. I would like to know whether the project of the 240 individual cells included in the Masterplan III is making any progress. I am rightly concerned about this because there are few concrete news. Recently, a simulation of fire services in the Verviers district was organized. It is an excellent thing that they can perfect their on-site intervention techniques. But now the prison of Verviers, in addition to being in complete decrepitude, is calcinate. For a building of this importance, in the centre of Verviers, it is a disaster. If I may go back to this question, it's because, like Sister Anne, I don't see anything coming. Now, this collapsing building is a calcined building. You will agree that this is not ideal in a city that is trying to get better. Minister, did the government look into the Verviers prison file? I have seen the text tabled by the Minister of Justice, who makes vague references to it, but no more. How long will this building remain abandoned? What is the planned timing for the work? When can workers and detainees hope to return to Verviers? What will be the capacity of this new prison? What types of prisoners will be taken care of? Will there be a public-private partnership?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u3	Mr Frédéric, as you know, the reconstruction of the Verviers prison is part of the Masterplan III Prisons project that is under evaluation. The role of the Régie des Bâtiments here is the role of a supplier at the request of our customers. In this case, our client is the Department of Justice, which evaluates Masterplan III and will decide what needs to be achieved and with what priorities. We are at the service of the client, the Department of Justice. The evaluation of Masterplan III has not yet been carried out. For questions about this decision, you must go to the Minister of Justice. Then, if they decide to make Verviers a priority, the Régie des Bâtiments will take charge of the matter and you will be given a schedule specifying the time it takes to achieve this or that thing. For the moment, I cannot answer your specific questions, as the appropriate minister of the Régie, because I have not received a request from my client, the Department of Justice. It's too bad, but it's like that!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u4	I thank the minister for this non-response. If you are the minister responsible for a service provider to a client – which is a little new as an interpretation, but let's admit – unless I have been inattentive, you are also Minister of Security and Deputy Prime Minister. So you're not just a service provider for the Minister of Justice. I therefore expect the Minister of Security and the Deputy Prime Minister to question his colleague and ask him what we are going to do with the Verviers prison. He said last week that it was under consideration with other files. It's been going on for years. It's a canker in the center of town. Maybe we'd go faster if this prison, in the state where it is, were in a big city. I recall Verviers' situation. You have a responsibility – and not just as a service provider to the Minister of Justice! I think it's a little simple as an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u5	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, the Brussels Palace of Justice is the symbol of the judiciary in the capital and in the country. This building is, of course, a little fragile. It is a bit delabrated and surrounded by scaffolding. In recent years, it has been the habit of making other premises available to the judicial authorities. I am thinking of Portalis, Themis, Montesquieu, with a particular legal regime: the state does not acquire anything, the state does not build anything, the state rents buildings built by the private sector. Senator Vanlouwe estimated the rents for various justice institutions at EUR 40 million. He has rightly been surprised at this way of managing public funds. A real estate company would have already introduced a building permit for an island bounded by Rue de la Régence, Rue de l'Arbre and Rue Ernest Allard. In fact, it envisages three things: demolishing the House of Justice, the police court, the justice of the peace, the legal aid office; building a huge building that would have as its symbolic name "Palais de Justice"; developing a set of premises for the purpose of hosting justice institutions with courtrooms and other services from Poelaert Square. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, are you looking forward to the construction of such a building by the private sector? Is the State already ready to rent it and pay rent for these different services? Have you sought the detailed advice of your colleague, the Minister of Justice, in this regard to determine his concerns or intentions? Have you made contact with the Brussels judicial authorities? Have you calculated the overall cost of the operation: moves, accommodations, temporary assignments, permanent assignments, transfers, etc.- Is that what you're saying? All in all, is it not better to devote these sums to the renovation of the Palace of Justice, also called the "mammouth" of Poelaert Square?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u6	Mr President, Mr Delperée, with regard to the hosting of the criminal chain outside the Brussels Courthouse, many decisions have already been taken by previous governments. On 20 March 2010, the Council of Ministers relied on a feasibility study carried out by the SCOPE study office. Given the scale and high cost of the work required to house the criminal chain within the Palais de Justice – while ensuring a sufficient level of protection and functionality – and given that such work was likely to alter the monumental character of the building, other options for hosting the judicial services installed in the Palais de Justice should be sought. On 7 February 2013, the Council of Ministers agreed that the following services should continue to be accommodated in the said building: the Court of Cassation, the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Court of Cassation, the Assize Court, the College of Attorneys General, the Justices of the Peace, the Bar Association and the SPF Justice restaurant. The Council of Ministers instructed the Régie des Bâtiments to acquire or lease, in the immediate vicinity of the Palais de Justice, a building suitable for the accommodation of the Court of First Instance, the Court of Execution of Sentences, the Court of Appeal, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the exhibits. In addition, it was decided to appoint a consultant to carry out a feasibility study on the non-judicial exploitation of the floor. On 28 February 2014, the Council of Ministers entrusted the Régie des Bâtiments with the task of launching a promotion contract through a European-wide publication for the implementation of the entire programme of the needs of the criminal chain in the vicinity of Poelaert Square, on the basis of a new consolidated programme of the needs of justice. The public procurement procedure may be published as soon as this programme has been completed and the choice of procedure and method of financing the project has been decided in consultation with the various parties concerned. The Régie des Bâtiments and the SPF Justice hope to be able to publish the promotion market in the second half of this year. For your second question, we are in constant consultation with the Department of Justice. We are not here to give an opinion, because we are acting in a customer-supplier relationship. I must add that there is a kind of task force that meets every two weeks to see how to assess developments on the ground and in the various buildings. Indeed, my biggest client, as head of the Régie des Bâtiments, is the Department of Justice. With regard to your third question, at this stage it is difficult to give an estimate of the cost. A reliable estimate will only be known once the exact program of needs, procedure and method of funding have been identified. As I have just said, once the needs of justice are identified, the publication of the contract could take place in the second half of the year. It is at that time that we can have an estimate of the budget and the time of implementation. As regards the maintenance of the criminal chain within the Palais de Justice and the timeliness of this retention, I refer to what I said at the beginning of my speech and to the study of the SCOPE study office. With regard to the possible non-judicial exploitation of the floor, our consultant, after working with a large number of stakeholders, including the President of the SPF Justice and consulting with the market for potential interested candidates, is working on the feasibility report which will probably be submitted to the Council of Ministers in May. A solution is therefore in sight.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u7	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for the very specific information that you would like to share with me. I'm not going to say that they reassure me because you're talking about some sort of break-up of judicial missions, as you say "in the vicinity" of Poelaert Square. On the other hand, I believe that if there are consultations with the Justice FPS, which is quite normal, it may be necessary – because we are in a very particular sector – for consultations to take place also with the judicial authorities themselves. The FPS is the department. The Court of Cassation, the Court of Appeal, the Court of First Instance, the Justices of the Peace, the Civil and Criminal Courts, lawyers, may also deserve to be consulted or informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u8	I confirm that there are working groups with the different types of users of the Palais de Justice. When I talk about consultations with the FPS, these are weekly consultations. Working groups have been established to identify needs and draft terms of reference.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u9	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns the State Archives in Eupen. This is a very important and interesting issue because it has been more than eight years since we have been thinking about a new location, because of the obvious lack of space and the situation and needs of the Kingdom General Archives in the coming years. This location has been found. It is a former building that once housed the Parliament of the German-speaking Community, located at Kaperberg 2-4 in Eupen. The deadline for the public inquiry, which ended on February 20, 2015, is gradually increasing and is now entering its final phase. However, the local press has echoed the fact that some of the residents have manifested themselves, so the project could still change. A mini-project of extension to the back of the building of the former Parliament of the German-speaking Community would cause nuisances to some residents. Minister, my questions are very simple and direct. I hope your answers will be as well. What is the status of your department in advancing this case? Is there a timetable for such construction? Or is there a risk that this file will need to be reviewed and re-established as a result of certain events?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u10	Mrs Jadin, my answers will also be very precise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u11	You've used me to that, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u12	With regard to the status of this case, a new licence application was submitted on 23 December 2014, just before Christmas. The public inquiry has just closed and we can hope that a decision will be communicated in early May. It's the planned schedule, but it's not in our hands. The timetable for construction according to our assumptions would be the following. It is estimated that the licence will be granted in the spring of 2015. The acquisition file would then be accepted and committed before the end of 2015. The study and specifications for the construction contract would take place in 2016 and construction would start in 2017 – the construction site would last two years. The building would be made available in early 2019. It depends on the license, but we will be set in the coming weeks. Is there still a risk? Implementation is defined as the project is the subject of a permit application. Nevertheless, the public investigation ended with numerous claims from residents. These claims will be analysed by the municipal authorities before the end of March. The Minister-President of the German-speaking Community held a consultation meeting on 18 March with the claimants and the parties concerned. An opinion of the municipal authorities will be given to the delegated official who will then have 30 days to render his decision. Only then will we be able to decide on the finality of the establishment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u13	Minister, I know that this is a matter that has taken a long time to reach maturity. I hope it can be achieved because it is an institution that we want to keep in good condition. It is very much appreciated by many of my region's citizens. These are the only documents in German that are kept in the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u14	Minister, this is a matter on which I have already come back on many occasions. You have also already given me very complete answers as to the follow-up which will be reserved for the services of the justice, in particular with regard to accommodation in other buildings in Verviers, given the age of the present courthouse in Crafarue. In your reply of 6 January, you speak of a phase of work for the current premises. Do we already have a specific timetable for this phase? We also know that a working group of FPS and Régie des Bâtiments staff is studying and monitoring the project. Can we hear the first conclusions of this working group or is it still too early?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u15	The phase of the work will be the result of fine planning of the work. At present, this dossier has not yet reached this stage of preparation, if only because the relevant integrated study market has not yet borne fruit. We do not yet have the data for fine planning. We're following the file very closely. We will provide you with the information as soon as there is an evolution in this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u16	Very succinctly, Mr. President. It is true that the problems of institutions and infrastructure in the field of justice will depend on the evolution and form of justice reform in the end. I can only envisage that tomorrow there will be no justice service in Verviers. It's unthinkable. But how large, how much and with what needs? It is obvious that the working group must work on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u17	In fact, I had already tabled this question on 19 December. There have been problems with the transmission of certain issues, but this is still an issue, Minister. The difficulties faced by the State in relation to certain European imperatives are known. This dossier, which matures after 30 years I think, is ready to be launched with a market to promote the calls for applications. This project on the Eupen courthouse is indeed an alternative financing project. So what is the timetable and the possibility for the state to launch this very important issue? You have seen for yourself the state of justice in Eupen. As a result of the reform of the justice system, new tasks have been assigned and the fact of centralizing all the services currently scattered has long been demanded by the authorities on the spot and strongly desired by everyone, not just me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u18	Mrs Jadin, I have seen in the field the circumstances under which people have to work. I must tell you that since yesterday I have seen worse cases, especially in Liège. I don't know if you're saying things the same way in French, but this is a case to tear off your hair. It's amazing. We thought we could start the work and then Eurostat's rules came in, as you know. So, where are we now? Following the new Eurostat regulation of September 2014, this dossier approved in its time by the Institute of National Accounts (ICN) no longer met the new ESA neutral criteria. A request for advice was sent to the Institute of National Accounts in early February. The ICN has communicated that a new formal request from the Régie des Bâtiments must be submitted. This dossier with annexes is currently being prepared: we will make a new request. After their response, if necessary, a strategic choice by the Government must be made on the budget allocation of this dossier before the allocation file is passed to the Council of Ministers. We are therefore preparing the file and the Institute of National Accounts will examine it. It will then be up to the government to decide, because it will no longer be a private/public collaboration, a "PPS", but it will be well taken over by the government. This is a decision of the Council of Ministers. I hope that it will be taken soon after the Institute has given its opinion. For the people of Eupen and for you who follow the file, the management of the file seems incredible but there are always new elements that slow down the work. The rules change all the time. If we lay the foundation of this dossier, we will already be able to rejoice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u19	Indeed, this case is very difficult. I've been interested in it for a while, too. For my understanding, Minister, is the Régie des Bâtiments already aware that it must re-apply following the advice of the Institute of National Accounts? How long will these formalities take?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u20	On the existing file, we received a notice from the NCI requesting that the file be adapted on certain points. We will make these adjustments and then verify compliance with the NCI. This is going to be quick because they know the dossier, which will then be tabled in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u21	Thank you for following this file very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u22	I propose that the questions be answered. Mr De Groote. - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr De Groote on his excellent report. Mr Degroote would be on his way to this committee, but we have not heard from him since. Debates of the European Parliament I would delete Mr Wollants' 1145 because we have not heard from him. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 1610 and 3342 3438 by Mr Gilkinet under item 5 have been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u23	Mr President, it seems that Question No 1145 by Mr Wollants has already been answered in writing and included in the Bulletin of Written Questions and Answers. That question was tabled both orally and in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u24	Good. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Delizée's 1660 has been postponed. Question No 7 is included under item 7. 2252 by Mr Degroote, who has apologized, so we shall postpone that question. Debates of the European Parliament 2757 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu has been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Thoron's 2946 has been converted into a written question. Mrs Becq is present in Parliament, but I propose that her question be answered. 3001 to be postponed. The combined question No. 3492 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh was also postponed. Mr Maingain has given a sign of life; his question No. 3087 we postpone. Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Groote's 3174 was postponed. Mr. Secretary, that means we're through on the agenda for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u25	Mr President, I am addressing you and the committee secretariat. We have, of course, prepared the answers to all these questions. If Members wish to translate their oral question into a written question, we can provide them immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u26	That's what we can suggest.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u27	Minister, in our country, there are different structures that participate in the economic life of our society. These structures are sometimes brought into competition, particularly in the context of public procurement. This poses difficulties when an ASBL issues a price under a public contract for which it will not charge VAT. It will therefore be 21 % cheaper than a company which has to apply the VAT system. How can we reduce competition, which I consider unfair, between legally different structures and which do not have to fulfil the same tax obligations in the context of public procurement?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u28	Madam, in your case, an equivalent service can be invoiced with or without VAT. The reason for exemption from VAT must be linked to the quality of the body which administers it, in particular in Article 44(2), point 11, of the VAT Code, which applies to non-profit organisations such as non-profit organisations. ASBLs may experience a variety of situations at the level of VAT, ranging from the exempt taxable person to the taxable person with deduction rights passing through mixed taxable persons. An ASBL will only carry out transactions exempt from VAT if it meets several conditions. The latter can be tightened to avoid precisely distortions of competition. "Fake ASBLs" may not legitimately operate as exempt taxable persons. My administration is already tracking this kind of unfair competition. It also deals more generally with abusive practices, hence transactions whose main purpose is to obtain a tax advantage the granting of which is contrary to the objective pursued by the VAT Code and the decrees adopted for its implementation. To consider that an ASBL legitimately competes with other companies for a public procurement with an advantage in terms of invoicing (VAT exemption), it will instead be exposed to a disadvantage in terms of costs at the level of VAT, all other things being equal. Indeed, the same ASBL would not have the subject quality and therefore no right to deduct the VAT it incurred when acquiring the goods and services it uses for the exercise of that exempt activity. Conversely, the subject commercial corporation will be able to deduct under the normal rules. Since my administration has not reported any concrete cases relating to public procurement, I am nevertheless prepared to consider the need for corrective measures if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for this precise and complete answer. I understand your department's willingness to track down all those who would not respect the establishment in which they were established, such as ASBL or others, and who, as a result, might gain an unfair advantage. I also hear that you are quite prepared, and I thank you very much, Minister, for examining cases where abuses could have been found. At this level, I'm not going to go any further. Some of them have been reported to me, but I'd rather let you know by missive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u30	Mrs Jadin, I give you the floor for your fifth question. You're in good shape today!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u31	Mr President, it is due to the fact that questions have been lost. Now that we've found them, they all have to be laid down. According to several social secretariats, only 52,000 small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in our country have benefited from the measure to reduce the occupational discount by 1.12% out of the 130,000 SMEs that could have used it. In the current economic context, this situation obviously does not fail to call into question. A few months ago, questions were asked about this and articles were published in the daily newspapers I consult. According to the social secretariats, the problem would be the criteria for benefiting from the reduction, considered administratively too heavy and ultimately not flexible in their practical application. As you know, Minister, SMEs must meet three criteria to benefit from the reduction: a staff of less than or equal to 50 employed workers, an annual turnover (excluding VAT) of EUR 7.3 million and a balance sheet total of EUR 3.65 million. It would be virtually impossible for companies to provide such data within the deadlines set in order to benefit from the reduction and to calculate the exemption. Mr Minister, do you confirm the figures from the social secretariats, according to which only 52,000 companies benefit from the reduction of the discount while, potentially, 132,000 SMEs could benefit from it? According to the social secretariats, proposals have been made to improve the situation but have no effect at present. Have you read about it? What follow-up do you intend to give?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u32	Mr President, Ms Jadin, in 2014, 80,500 SMEs used the measure to reduce the payment of the professional discount referred to in the question, in one or more statements concerning professional discount. The main problem would arise from the unavailability of accounting information for 2013 from the beginning of 2014, which would result in an impossibility of requesting the exemption from professional prepayment as soon as the measure enters into force. The proposals submitted by the social secretariats to address this concern have been thoroughly examined by my services. I am of the opinion, in view of the employment objectives pursued by this specific measure, that the employers concerned could apply, by analogy, Article 15, § 2, of the Company Code, which states: "The application of the criteria set out in § 1 to companies which start their business is subject to estimates in good faith at the beginning of the financial year." Where appropriate, the persons liable for the professional prepayment concerned could make an adjustment if their estimate ultimately proved to be incorrect. This pragmatic and very flexible solution does not seem to lead to an excessive administrative burden for employers. Furthermore, I find it inappropriate to consider amending section 15 of the above-mentioned Code only to address a tax concern which, as can be seen, is not insurmountable. Finally, the government agreement provides that the measure will be repealed and incorporated into the fall in employer contributions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u33	Minister, that's good news. The information on the effective use of the scheme is gratifying: 32 000 SMEs have used the mechanism. I also hear your willingness to make the current system more flexible. A question should then be asked of your colleague Théo Francken, who is asked a lot of questions about immigration but too little about administrative simplification. Indeed, it is a mechanism that should be made more public in order to make use of it more quickly. I'll read your rested head answer again and thank you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u34	Mr President, this is a question that I tabled following the meeting of many booksellers who told me about it in my region. In fact, booksellers have suffered enormously in recent years from the obvious appearance of the online press and the shortening of the print press. This obviously has implications for employment. In 2007, Prodipresse's vice-president felt that the local trade was at risk and seven years later we can only give him reason. We know that the three pillars of the booksellers are the sale of tobacco-related products, the press and lottery products, three sectors that are in decline today. In this context, I was asked by a bookseller about the problem of the flat-rate system at the tax level. As a reminder, in order to benefit from the flat-rate scheme, we know that the bookstore's turnover must not exceed EUR 750 000, which is a problem in many cases. The primary complaint of the booksellers with respect to this amount is twofold: first, it has not been increased for some time, and then it is largely overtaken by the sale of cigarettes. These two elements therefore lead many professionals to exceed the ceiling, further complicating the management of stores. Mr Minister, do you not therefore think that we should re-evaluate the maximum turnover that a bookseller can have while benefiting from the flat-rate scheme in order to keep pace with the evolution of the cost of living? Should the tobacco trade not be excluded from the calculation of the turnover of the booksellers? In 2012, Prodipresse wrote to the tax administration on this subject, but according to my information, has not received a response to date. Have you ever been sensitized by the sector since then?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u35	Mr President, I should like to point out that there is a package not only for bookstores that are more specialized in the sale of books but also a package for newspaper merchants. Bookstores may also sell newspapers and periodicals as well as manufactured tobacco, but these sales are more incidental to the sale of books, which is different for newspaper merchants. The annual turnover of EUR 750 000 is fixed by the Royal Decree on the establishment of flat-rate VAT bases. It's the same for all packages. It was adapted on 1 January 2005. At present, there are no plans to change this threshold. The sale of tobacco manufactured by booksellers or newspaper dealers is an integral part of their turnover, such as any sale of other goods, and cannot be excluded under any circumstances. My administration does not find any evidence of a request from Prodipresse on this subject. Of course, it is prepared to consider any new applications that Prodipresse may make in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u36	Thank you, Minister. As far as Prodipresse is concerned, I will forward your answer. I understand that the administration is responding with caution. My question goes beyond the fixing of the royal decree on which the administration cannot base itself. I wanted to know if there is a willingness to review this system. I'm also going to raise the sector's awareness so that it can get in touch not only with your department but perhaps with you directly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u37	Mr President, Minister, in 2016, Malmédy's contribution office will no longer be an office for "individuals", i.e. the files of employees, employees, pensioners or social beneficiaries will then be processed in the premises of the FPS Finances in Spa. This situation is particularly problematic for people with reduced mobility or the elderly, sometimes without a means of own locomotion, who would live in Waimes for example. It is also known that for the municipality of Esneux which was originally to be under the control of Spa, for reasons of facilities, the municipality will remain in the direction of the services of the SPF of Liège. All of this is part of Coperfin and the new assignments and the necessary reforms that I also support, Minister. Would it not be opportune to leave control of the municipalities of Waimes and Malmedy on Malmedy given the geographical location and accessibility? More generally, are we attentive to the transfer of specific records on their access to the new places of control?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u38	Madam, in 2016, when the FPS Finance offices for individuals disappeared in Malmedy, a cockpit office will be kept there to provide service to the public. During the tax filing period, meetings will also be held as required. The FPS Finance is in fact undergoing many organisational and structural reforms but will ensure the implementation of solutions that ensure the maintenance of a quality service to the citizen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u39	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u40	Mr Minister, this is a follow-up question to the visit we made to Customs and Excise on 17 March, where we were present at the destruction of 89 million cigarettes. We then had talks with a number of customs officers, who said that in some cases, and in the case of contraband which does not have a tax seal, it ends up in the circuit again, in other words, is sold by the FPS Finance. This often happens with confiscated and forfeited goods. One even has a second-hand shop to sell certain materials. I was wondering if there was a deontological code for cigarettes or other products at the FPS Finance or other departments. Is it consistent that cigarettes are being sold by the government, while millions of euros are being invested in actions such as Kom op tegen Kanker and where the Department of Public Health is conducting dissuasive campaigns against the use of cigarettes? Is there a deontological code for certain products seized? That's the main question. I think it is strange that, on the one hand, millions are being invested in campaigns and, on the other hand, they are being sold for cigarettes. Mr Minister, I have a few general questions. With regard to the strict conditions for the sale of forfeited goods, the customs authorities have denounced the fact that the same party has been seized twice. How many times did that happen? I stress that this question does not run counter to the good work done by the FPS Finance and Customs and Excise in their fight against counterfeit cigarettes. So you must not take this question the wrong way. At that time, we clearly saw that wonderful work is being done by your services. However, this is a deontological issue. Is it possible that you are a cigarette salesman and that another minister of the same government is dissuading?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u41	Mr Van Biesen, if I may, I would like to answer the first two questions grouped together, the third and the fourth questions separately. As far as your first two questions are concerned, a distinction must indeed be made between counterfeit products and what is known as'so-called'so-called'so-called'so-called'so-called'so-called'so-called'so-so-so''. Customs never sell counterfeit goods, but forfeited illicit whites. Illicit whites are cigarettes that are often produced by smaller producers outside the EU. There will then be a problem if these cigarettes are imported illegally. We are talking about traditional smuggling with evasion of import duties, excise duties and VAT. The processing of illegal imports is carried out in accordance with the general law on customs and excise duties. It provides that smuggled goods must be seized in order to be forfeited afterwards. After the forfeiture the cigarettes become the property of the Belgian State and the recipient of the Customs and Excise duties has the right to sell these goods publicly. In the case of goods which could be spoiled after some time, the recipient may sell the goods before a judgment has given the forfeiture. Cigarettes are products that are spoiled. Therefore, the recipient frequently makes an early sale. An early sale must mean that the recipient takes a decision on the destination of the goods, depending on the condition in which the cigarettes are effectively present. He can make a decision from one of the following three options. Firstly, sales on the domestic market when all safety, health and consumer requirements are met. Secondly, sales under the condition of compulsory export from the EU, if there are buyers, for example, but European and Belgian consumer rules are not feasible. Thirdly, destruction, for example, if there has been deterioration, or if there are no buyers, for example because the payment of taxes would make commercialisation uneconomic. Administrative rules allow the recipient of Customs and Excise duties to sell them early in order to avoid the cost of detention, sale or destruction being recoverable. This is often the case with the same illicit whites because the seizure charges unknowns happen. For example, at the beginning of the year in Antwerp, eight parties were sold with the conditions of sale that cigarettes should be exported outside the EU. In order to verify these conditions of sale, specific customs documents have been drawn up for these cigarettes to guarantee exports and to allow for effective checks on exports. For your third and fourth questions, I can inform you that specific cases of the sale of re-captured cigarettes are not known to the administration. I've read stories like that in the press. However, it does not seem to be in line with reality according to the information provided by the relevant customs services. In response to your fifth question, more action will indeed be taken against counterfeit goods. For example, in the case of tobacco, we provide for increased screenings of manifests on incoming containers and observations under BOM legislation and of delayed transfers to illegal domestic and foreign recipients. With regard to counterfeiting, screening of manifests at sea and airports and the verification of products and counterfeit goods ordered via the Internet, such as medicines, will receive extra attention because of the services involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. I understand clearly from this that it goes according to the law and that the law does not prescribe deontology. So she doesn't look at what product is being sold as such, but only looks at whether they are products that are no longer usable after a while, so that they can be sold more quickly. I do not understand how it is decided when a sale takes place within or outside the EU. Are there conditions for this? I find it difficult to understand that cigarettes would be better sold outside the EU than within the EU. We can discuss this later. I note that there is no deontological code of sale for the FPS Finance and all FPS debt holders involved in seizures and confiscations. I suppose that is not just the case for cigarettes, but also for blood diamonds and so on. I'm just wondering if there's a line to draw somewhere. It would therefore be wrong for the Minister to take an initiative to see what can and cannot be sold.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u43	Minister, at the end of 2008, the then federal government decided on an economic revival plan aimed, inter alia, at maintaining employment in the construction sector. It is from this perspective that a temporarily reduced rate of 6% was introduced on a first disc of 50 000 euro in new construction. However, one of the basic conditions in order to benefit from that reduced rate was and is that the transferee or the builder must retain his place of residence without delay for a period of 5 years. If the taxable person does not retain his place of residence, he is obliged to declare it and the tax advantage must also be refunded to the Belgian State. However, the Minister of Finance has made an exception to the obligation to pay back if the change of address is due to force majeure. In reply to a previous parliamentary question by Mr Lijnen, the example of force majeure was: death, divorce and termination of the legal cohabitation. However, it was stressed that those exceptions should not be interpreted strictly, but that in general a derogation could be granted if one were to be in the common sense of force majeure. In practice, however, it appears that the administration does indeed give a restrictive reading of the notion of force majeure. When it comes to the termination of a permanent cohabitation, the administration assumes that the notion of force majeure does not apply. My question therefore makes sense, Minister. Is the notion of force majeure in the answer to the previous parliamentary question answered in an exhaustive manner as regards the exceptional cases? Or should we effectively interpret the Minister's reply and your answer, Minister, in such a way that the derogation will continue to apply when a permanent cohabitation is terminated? In the impossible event that you would interpret force majeure as such or instruct your administration to interpret force majeure as such, the question arises whether we do not adopt a discriminatory attitude between those who simply live together sustainably, and those who are married or actually living together by means of a statutory social contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u44	Mr Minister, I have a similar question, but with a different approach. In 2009, the then government temporarily reduced the VAT rate from 21% to 6% on a first instalment of EUR 50 000 for new construction as part of its relay plan. One of the conditions to benefit from that reduced rate was that the owner would establish his place of residence there without delay and would retain it until 31 December of the fifth year following the year of entry into service. Now, five years later, your administration is apparently systematically checking whether that condition has been met. There's nothing wrong with that, but there are a few problems now. I also refer to Mrs Lijnen's question, to which Mrs Van Cauter has just referred. The then Minister of Finance made an exception to the obligation to pay back in case of force majeure. I'm not talking about cohabitants breaking up, I'm talking about force majeure for medical reasons. Apparently, the administration doesn't accept a medical reason as a cause of force majeure. Moreover, your administration is currently very strict in complying with the five-year deadline. Your administration requires the owner to be resident in the property until 31 December of the fifth year. I would like to refer to existing administrative tolerances for the application of the reduced VAT rate of 6% in the case of renovation. Although the five-year period should in principle be calculated from day to day, your administration accepts that the seniority condition is calculated in practice from year to year. The same applies to the five-year period for energy-saving investments in personal taxation, which should be interpreted in the same way as in the case of VAT. Firstly, is it left to the local VAT control services to fill in the concept of force majeure case on a case-by-case basis or is there central coordination so that the application is clear and unambiguous throughout the country? Secondly, can medical reasons be accepted as force majeure? Finally, can the administrative tolerances quoted regarding the calculation of the five-year period also be applied to the temporary reduction in 2009 and 2010 of the VAT rate of 6% on the first disc of EUR 50 000 for new construction? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u45	One of the conditions for eligibility for the temporarily reduced rate of 6% is that the builder or buyer himself takes over the house until 31 December of the fifth year following the year of the first entry into service. That condition is laid down by law. They don't count from day to day. If, for example, the first entry into service took place in the course of 2010, the residence requirement therefore runs until 31 December 2015. In the event of non-compliance with the condition, the legal provisions do not provide for any derogation from the duty to refund the tax advantage enjoyed, even in cases of force majeure. However, for the sake of fairness, it is accepted that the tax advantage enjoyed does not have to be repaid in the event of the death of the builder or purchaser, in the event of divorce, in the event of termination of the legal or factual cohabitation and in the event of justified and serious medical reasons with the builder or purchaser and his family members living in the building. The limitative cases of force majeure must be demonstrated by the builder or purchaser in the specific case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u46	Minister, I am sure you expect to hear that I am disappointed, but perhaps you would like to reconsider this. The rule is the rule on which I agree with you and 31 December is 31 December; one must draw a line somewhere. On the other hand, answers to previous parliamentary questions have shown that the reasons for derogating from the compulsory residence requirement for five years until 31 December are force majeure situations. According to the administration, force majeure is death, divorce and termination of legal society. I hear you recounting an additional reason. It was not listed in the answers to parliamentary questions. The administration is now also talking about serious medical reasons. This immediately confirms that force majeure must be interpreted in the common sense. The administration therefore interprets the concept of force majeure. This would mean that if one lives in a property and the partner with whom one is married or legally living together, it would be regarded as force majeure in respect of the remaining party. He doesn't have to pay back his tax credit. If one simply lives together and the partner leaves, then the administration says that the person concerned is to blame. Force majeure means it's not due to your will. Or did I misunderstand you?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u47	I may have been unclear, that's possible. It shall apply on termination of the legal or factual cohabitation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u48	Then we'll follow the same reasoning. Whether legally, factually or marriedly, when the partner leaves, that is considered to be a circumstance beyond his own will. This means that the tax advantage must not be repaid. Thank you very much: I am not disappointed by, but delighted with your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u49	I'm just as excited. It is now clear what the legitimate reasons may be for what is considered to be force majeure. I hope that every local VAT control service will comply with that. The same tolerance does not apply here as for other schemes. Clarity is very important in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u50	Mr President, Minister, it is a very short question. It has once been different, but companies which are dissolved from 1 January 1990 are subject to corporation tax during liquidation in the same way as non-dissolved companies. As you know, liquidation can take several financial years. The sale of assets enables taxable profits to be realised. The question that arises is the following. Can companies in liquidation which still achieve taxable profits benefit from the application of Article 184c of the WIB92? During the period of their liquidation at the end of the financial year, while awaiting final closure, may they continue to maintain a liquidation reserve?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u51	Mrs Wouters, I can confirm to you that, without prejudice to the application of the general anti-abuse clause and in accordance with the legal provisions, a national company in liquidation can establish a liquidation reserve if the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u52	That's very clear. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u53	Minister, it is a long question, but it is a translation of a written question. I will put them to you, but I understand that you will give me the written reply later. I asked a question about this in committee in December. It was in response to your reply that I tabled a written question. Hopefully the evaluation of the pilot project in Ghent will be completed and the conclusions will also be known. Your response in December showed that the pilot project is indeed running in Ghent and that it amounts to EUR 2 839 939 of which about 10% had already been collected at the time. Today I like to get the total amount. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u54	Mr President, does it make sense for me to ask the whole question? After all, I have already received the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u55	I'll leave that to the chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u56	Or may I hand over my question so that it can be included in the Integrated Report? Then I don't take everyone's time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u57	Mr President, first of all I should like to apologise for the absence of a written answer to a written question, but we have just given Mrs De Wit the very exhaustive written answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u58	I'd read it all to you, but it's pretty long. If I give you my question, it can be included in the Integrated Report and we save everyone time. My question and the answer can be included in the Integrated Report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u59	We'll do it this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u60	Mr President, Minister, in a nutshell, the problem is as follows. A dependent disabled child may give rise to a tax advantage in the form of an increase in the duty-free minimum. That's a general tax rule. Now it appears that there are cases where people, even on the advice of all kinds of agencies, expand or change their homes so that they become a care home for a disabled child, in order to be able to help their child. It's Flemish jurisdiction. To this end, a certain subsidy is granted, but the tax advantage within the federal tax legislation seems to disappear. For some people this means that the choice of a care home is less interesting than the option of the tax advantage. Mr. Secretary, is this correct? Are you aware of this problem? What attitude do you adopt in this regard? I am aware of some of the dossiers in which those concerned would not have set up a care home if they had known that they would lose the tax advantage, because they are now in a worse financial situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u61	Mr President, Mr Terwingen, that is, of course, a very important problem for most of the situations that are particularly worrying. There must be no doubt that there is concern about this. In substance, I must reply to you as follows. You refer to a particular case or to certain cases. However, on the basis of the information you provided in your written preparation, it is very difficult to provide a clear answer on the relationships and on what is or is not included. I am, of course, willing with the FPS Finance to the extent that certain taxpayers want to make trade-offs in such situations and discuss matters, to deal with them in an exhaustive manner, in order to achieve an optimal situation, prior to the decisions to be taken, but also in going concern, if I may use that term here. I hope you understand that it is very difficult to answer your questions in general terms. We give all the openness and cooperation we can to deal with the specific cases that arise in a transparent, clear and rapid manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u62	Minister, I will use your outstretched hand to ask for more concrete advice in certain cases through your cabinet. I'll find those roads. In some cases, the tax benefits are offset by Flemish measures in other sectors, or the effects are more negative than the original system. That cannot be the intention, neither of Flanders nor of the federal government. So perhaps we should consider whether this is a general consequence of the measure. From your answer, I do feel, without wishing to put words in your mouth, that you would be willing, if that particular line could be found, to perhaps interrupt that line. After all, it cannot be the intention that people who want to take care of severely mentally or physically disabled children should be put in a worse perspective. I will take that further through your cabinet, for which I will find the necessary avenues. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u63	The next item is the questions by Mr Vanvelthoven and Mr Gilkinet. Mr Vanvelthoven has asked for his questions. 3539 and 3547.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u64	Mr. Chairman, we would have liked to have asked the Minister of the Budget some questions in order to obtain an overall view of the figures announced as part of the budget adjustment. That's not possible! I have therefore put a number of questions to the Minister of Finance in order to better understand the figures announced with regard to his own powers. In the context of budgetary control, the government has announced the introduction of a so-called 'Caiman' tax on the income from offshore constructions of Belgian taxpayers, if I understand correctly. You are announcing a revenue of 150 million euros for 2015. We can only take note of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u65	That's 50 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u66	I'm not talking about the 'diamant' tax. I'll be there later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u67	The Cayman tax: 50 million euros in 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u68	All right. That does not change the substance of my questions. Minister, what will this Cayman tax consist of? Who will it aim for? How high will the income from these offshore investments be taxed? It seems, it is announced, that it is this type of investment that is targeted. Should the taxpayers concerned justify the origin of the funds invested? Money-laundering issues arise in relation to this type of offshore structure. On what basis has the announced revenue of EUR 50 million been assessed? How soon do you intend to present this tax to Parliament so that it can be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u69	Mr Gilkinet, allow me to reply partially in Dutch, the answer having been prepared on the basis of the attached questions, including that of Mr Vanvelthoven.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u70	Mr President, could you clarify the status of what is contained in budgetary control? Can you also tell us what it would cost in terms of funding at cruising speed and what in 2015? That's not clear. I think that we can make this clear here, so that this should not be discussed in plenary tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u71	I will gladly do so in the most comprehensive way. Within the government, the viewing tax was technically prepared for a number of weeks. Proper technical drafting of this legislation is, of course, crucial for achieving the objectives, and I mean not only the financial objectives but also the social objectives in terms of fiscal fairness. The technical preparation has now been completed. The preliminary draft will soon be discussed within the government and normally approved. During the government negotiations, based on the experience and the results of a similar Dutch legislation, we also looked at England, where similar mechanisms are used, assuming that a viewing tax should be able to raise around 120 million euros in 2016. That is also explicitly stated in the coalition agreement. Based on calculations carried out by the FPS Finance, which mainly based itself on figures collected by and available from the National Bank, it appears that Belgians in tax havens covered by future legislation hold assets of more than 57 billion euros. This amounts to EUR 57 billion. This figure does not include the United States, Switzerland and Luxembourg. We are trying to see more clearly in the situation of these three countries. I want to make it clear: we have not included what is possibly "available" in the United States, Switzerland and Luxembourg. We assume that they can be covered by the Cayman tax regime. In a classic approach, as in the Netherlands, it is assumed that there is a return that is fixed at 3.2 % today. Then it becomes relatively simple: 57 billion, 3.2 % return and 25 % withholding tax gives a result of 460 million. This amounts to EUR 460 million. It's a real and computable sum. The new legislation, which looks at tax through legal arrangements that are not subject to income tax or to a significantly more favourable tax regime, will apply from 1 January 2015. Since according to the preliminary draft, professional income can also be taken into account with the viewing tax and the taxpayer can pay their taxes in the form of advance payments, a budgetary return of EUR 50 million can be justified. I would like to explain how we have reached this figure. I admit that this is a reasoned hypothesis. It's not an exact science. Assuming that EUR 460 million is available on these accounts in terms of revenue, it can be assumed that around EUR 100 million is in the form of professional income. We also know from experience that about 70% of prepayments are made. So, 70 percent of 100 is 70. There we simply built in a margin of caution and finally opted for 50.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u72	So the hypothesis is that 70% of the 100 million can still be collected this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u73	Indeed, Mr President, through the advance payment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u74	That's how you got here? What is 1 January 2015? Is this about the 2014 revenue?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u75	It's about the revenue of 2015. The advance payments on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u76	You said it will start on 1 January 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u77	As far as movable income is concerned, there is nothing we can do before 2015. As far as professional income is concerned, it is through advance payments. I admit that our reasoning is motivated by experience and by contacts in this area. The division between movable income and professional income is, in part, arbitrary, I admit. It's a reasoned split-up. Because it is not hermetic to find out whether they are eligible or not, we have decided not to register EUR 70 million but EUR 50 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u78	Where did the EUR 58 billion come from? From offshore accounts? So that's the maximum one can tax?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u79	With that in mind, as I have just said, accounts are not yet available in the US, in Luxembourg and in Switzerland. There is the explanation of whether they are covered by the caiman conditions or not much more difficult. That EUR 57 billion is exclusive of those three countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u80	Mr President, thank you for allowing me to reply. But you are also allowed to table questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u81	If this question is asked in committee, it is also an opportunity for me to try to clarify the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u82	If you allow all members to do as you do, I see no difficulty. I was chairman of this committee, I know what it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u83	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u84	How much the government will subscribe as revenue for the 2016 budget, will be discussed during the budget layout at the end of the year. Of course, we want to make the caiman tax operational quickly. Hopefully we will have already gained operational experience by then. The study of the FPS Finance, of which I have just explained the broad lines, will of course continue to be an important element of the estimation of the revenues that are possible for 2016 and later. Income from foreign legal constructions will be taxed as if it were held directly by the natural person or legal persons. On the basis of tax fictions, taxable revenues will follow their ordinary taxation regime as provided for in IRC 92 in respect of their qualification in respect of the defined taxpayer. For professional income, the maximum rate may therefore be as high as 50 %. The effect of the transparency tax is that income that was not previously taxed will now be taxed through the introduction of transparent treatment upon the entry into force of the Cayman regime. Where there are indications of irregularities or tax fraud, the tax administration may use all possible means to carry out checks in order to trace the origin of the assets and capital brought into the legal construction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u85	Mr Minister, thank you for all these figures, which still require some reaction. Indeed, 57 billion euros that are owned by Belgians in offshore constructions around the world, except the United States, Luxembourg and Switzerland, is absolutely huge! I wonder how you set these amounts and how they came about. We know that offshore constructions are often used for money laundering. That being said, I take note of the end of your answer, since you have indicated that an indication of irregularity would lead to prosecution. This is obviously fundamental! However, given the size of the sums concerned, the revenue envisaged by the Belgian State for this and subsequent years is particularly small. We have the impression of having cheap regularization opportunities. We will have an opportunity to discuss it again when the law is passed. Since the scheme has not yet entered into force and would cover the whole of 2015, the question of retroactivity arises. This is also the debate about index jump. Once you have completed the drafting of this law and received the advice of the Council of State, I encourage you to come to Parliament with the right answers. I would not like this more or less generous intention to achieve any effect, if there is retroactivity and recourse against this retroactivity. I think we'll still have an opportunity to talk about it, but I'm really questioning your numbers and the rates you're announcing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u86	Mr. Peter Vanvelthoven requested the postponement of his question No. 3555.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u87	Mr President, Minister, with regard to the strangeness of budgetary control, we have found that the government wants to introduce a flat-rate tax for the diamond sector, which should lead to a revenue of EUR 50 million. I confess my astonishment, not in relation to the measure, for it was a little in the air of time; we know that the diamond lobby was very active in asking for this form of flat-rate taxation. Minister Geens before you mentioned this assumption, but I am astonished by the special concession regime that would be granted to the diamond sector. Indeed, this sector is regularly pointed out in Belgium but also by international bodies, in particular by its not always correct behaviour with regard to taxation, in order to use polite terms. In the HSBC dossier which we have referred to extensively in this committee, it is in particular diamond-makers who have been targeted. Without making it a generalization, there may be suspicions about their tax practice and tax evasion. Minister, can you tell me what this flat-rate diamond tax will be? Are the $50 million announced a gross or net revenue? Should we withdraw from the revenue what would no longer be collected in the context of corporate tax? Does this mean that the diamond sector will no longer be subject to corporate tax? If so, what will be the loss of corporate tax revenues because they, like other businesses, no longer have to get involved? How much is this loss of revenue? And in the same way I asked you about the Cayman tax on working time, I would like to know your schedule.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u88	Minister, we have taken note of the so-called carat tax that should be worth EUR 50 million in 2015. The diamond sector will in future be taxed on turnover rather than profit. This is a proposal, an idea that the sector itself has put forward. We find this the first time in their own 2012 documents. Last year this was placed on the political agenda. I note, Minister, that it is announced that the sector will have to pay EUR 50 million more, and at the same time they are incredibly satisfied. I've never seen this before. This seems to me to be a unique experience in the fiscal history of this country. The government announces that a certain sector will have to pay EUR 50 million more and those involved are very happy. Allow me to have some suspicion if that sector responds so happy to this supposed tax increase. I have a number of very specific questions, Minister. Firstly, how does the government get the proposed amount of EUR 50 million? You have just explained very well how the calculation was made with the caiman tax. I hope that we will also be told here a clear method of calculation of how this amount has been achieved. Secondly, I wonder how much they used to pay for corporation tax? You spoke in Ter Zake about EUR 10 to 20 million. Apparently, you have numbers. I would have liked to know, for example, what the latest five years were the proceeds of the corporation tax of the diamond sector? Thirdly, what is the average percentage of corporation tax paid by this sector in the past? If we want to compare, it is good that we get these figures. I do not think these will be impressive figures, but I am curious. Fourthly, how exactly will the carat tax be calculated? Fifthly, how is the turnover of the diamond sector calculated? This is, of course, essential. One has to assume a certain turnover. There are other sectors that are taxed on the basis of other criteria. This is where a turnover will have to be reported. How will this turnover be controlled by tax services? It is essential to be able to control that turnover. We can only talk about a white turnover because only that turnover can be controlled. Many other files show that this is a problem. Finally, Minister, I would have liked to know what the other, sector-specific or general rules are that apply today to the diamond sector. We are talking about a measure here, but we must place it in the entirety of the measures. We also know that there are favour regimes on VAT and import duties. I would have liked to have heard from you what other preferential rates or specific tariffs exist for this sector? In this way, we get an idea of how this sector will be taxed by this new government as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u89	Mr. President, Minister, your presence with us is valuable, because you are already providing elements of a response to the government's budget control announcements. In retrospect, I regret that we do not have the opportunity to receive the Minister of Budget. Indeed, this would have already allowed us to clear up a number of issues and to better understand the government's objectives and the measures announced under budgetary control. When presenting this budget adjustment, the government indicated that an additional revenue of EUR 50 million would come from a carat tax specific to the diamond sector. Three journalists were heard this Tuesday by the Finance Committee in order to deepen our thinking on the fight against major tax fraud. Again, this session was very interesting, as was the one in which we received ISI officials. These three journalists have detailed the results of their investigations into the revelations related to the LuxLeaks, OffshoreLeaks and SwissLeaks cases. These journalists pointed to the existence of many close and intense links between the diamond sector and financial structures suspected of organizing fraud and tax evasion. Undoubtedly, their presentation showed that there was a real ground for investigation. Among the names of account holders cited are three persons actively sought by Interpol for acts related to financial crime. The link was established between the diamond sector, tax fraud and crime. Minister, do you confirm the introduction of a specific flat-rate tax specific to the diamond sector? Do you confirm that the government estimates the revenue of this tax at EUR 50 million? On what basis was this amount determined? Does this tax replace corporate tax for the sector concerned? When will this tax come into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to achieve a fair contribution from the diamond sector to the budget, which was clearly not the case until now, a specific turnover tax will be developed for the diamond sector. It goes without saying that these turnover taxes must comply with the European rules on State aid. At present, the annual contribution of the diamond sector through corporation tax, non-residents tax and so on is in the order of EUR 20 million. The government decided, in its budgetary conclave, to increase the tax contribution of the diamond sector by an overall net annual amount of EUR 50 million. That amount is the net additional contribution. Let me remind you once again that this is substantially more than what the sector is contributing today. The technical development of this load has now begun. As with all draft laws, the government will also draw on the expertise of the relevant administration. The work is moving towards linking this contribution to the turnover of the companies concerned. They will therefore no longer pay taxes on their profits, but on the basis of their turnover. It is too early to go into the concrete, specific and technical impact of the measure at the moment, but I will, of course, give the necessary explanations and explanations in this committee at the appropriate time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u91	Minister, I'm falling from my chair! You started your answer using the term "rechtvaardig". Do you really think that it is fair to consider that a sector that is relatively unproductive in our country, even if it provides some jobs in Antwerp, benefits from a specific preferential tax system?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u92	You're talking about over 30,000 jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u93	I can quote you many other sectors that would deserve treatment other than that because they bring real added value to society. How will you justify to all companies that fall under the normal tax system that a specific sector benefits from such a preferential scheme, whereas it is regularly involved in fraud cases for sums that far exceed the contribution we announce. You do not know the first word of the legislation you are going to put in place. It will have to comply with European rules on non-compliance with competition rules. You are announcing a net recipe of 50 million euros, which is more than today but which nevertheless leads those interested to saber champagne. For us, this is not about tax justice, it is about a system of favour. This is another missed opportunity for the government to ensure that the financial sectors in the broad sense, in this case luxury, contribute justly to the budgetary efforts that are to be made in this country. Minister, when I see what young people who are looking for a job, older unemployed people, part-time workers have to do today, I am shocked by this announcement. What you have just said does not reassure me at all in relation to the first reading that I was able to have of the government agreement on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u94	Minister, I already have some experience in Parliament. When drawing up my questions, I always try to be very precise. I'll list them up and number them. I will do the same in order to see if all the questions will be answered afterwards. Now I have to say that I have only received an answer to two of my six questions. That's two interesting figures. Firstly, how was the EUR 50 million yield calculated? You can't tell us about that today. There had to be 50 million euros more politically. However, you cannot explain how that amount is calculated. How exactly will the tax be calculated and applied? You can't answer that either today. How is turnover calculated and how will tax services be able to control turnover? I do not get an answer to that question either. This probably means that the whole scheme still has to be worked out or has already been worked out, but do not want to explain it to us today. My final question was very clear which other specific rules apply to the sector. You do not answer that question. I assume the administration knows that. Nevertheless, you are not answering today. Will or can't you answer? Mr Minister, perhaps it is on page 2 of your reply and you have forgotten to read page 2. It could be. You nod in the negative, the competent services simply do not want to indicate which sector-specific measures are already in place today. It can't be. We ask the question. It's about data that's definitely known. In the press we read things about exemption from VAT and import duties. I ask you which specific rules apply to the sector. However, you simply refuse to answer my question. I guess there must be a lot to hide. Minister, I agree with you on one point. You note that the income from corporation tax is 20% and that it is far too little. I agree. That's outrageous. We hear and see that a friendly settlement has been reached in one particular file with the tax authorities. It concerns the Omega Diamonds file. I shall just mention the name, because the case has already been in the press. A friendly settlement of EUR 150 million has been paid in that file, which is seven times the annual income of the whole sector. That amount, which is seven times the annual income of the whole sector, is paid to settle. So, Minister, what profits are being made throughout the sector? You then point out that EUR 50 million is much more than EUR 20 million. Fifty million euros is indeed more than twenty. However, I am not satisfied with the EUR 50 million. The diamond industry, like the other sectors, has to pay the taxes it has to pay. Today, that's corporate tax. It is scandalous that the sector does not pay these taxes by means of all kinds of exceptions or fraud. I don't want to generalize, but there are a lot of diamond companies involved. Therefore, you should not bring such a tax in. Together with the tax administration, you must ensure that the tax rules that exist today for companies are correctly applied, including in the diamond sector. That would be fair taxes. Minister, that extra EUR 50 million was also circulating a year ago. That amount came from a study that stated that thanks to a sales tax we could lure many more companies to Antwerp and that there might be a return of EUR 50 million. Is it on the basis of that study that you and your government will get up to 50 million euros? On 31 December, I will check whether you have achieved this EUR 50 million. Basically, this is a wrong choice. We call on you and the government to fall back on the normal tax rules and apply them correctly, with proper administration and controls. That will be far more than the EUR 50 million that is now being put forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u95	Mr Minister, I really invite you to read the figures that were given to the Finance Committee yesterday afternoon on the major tax fraud and, in particular, on the one that is housed in the diamond sector. It's upbuilding. You will understand that some members of this commission are outraged by this preferential treatment of diamond-makers who hide behind an increase in the recipe but which is only a screen. This morning, in the press, the mayor of Antwerp considers Charles Michel a great man. I was a little surprised reading this. I thought it was a joke or an April fish. But, in reality, I understand very well that the mayor of Antwerp and the diamond-makers of Antwerp consider the Prime Minister to be a great man; he is at the head of a government determined to carry out great projects for them. They are among the biggest fraudsters in our country and some of them are among the greatest criminals. The project you're putting on the table, from that point of view, is scary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u96	Mr Minister, with the aim of increasing its attractiveness to foreign investors – in any case, that was said at the time – Belgium, like other European states, has put in place an exceptional tax system in favour of specialised management staff of foreign nationality. According to tax specialist Luc Vanheeswijk, recently quoted by the Standaard, more than 20,000 foreign executives benefited from this derogation in 2014. This is mainly beneficial in two respects. On the one hand, it makes it possible to exempt partly or totally, according to their unique or repetitive nature, the employer's own expenditure, such as, for example, the costs of moving and moving, housing, teaching children, travel to the country of origin... On the other hand, income not derived from activities carried out in Belgium is excluded from the taxable base. In 2003 – this is already happening, but it is interesting to have it in mind – the Court of Auditors had carried out an audit of this mechanism which highlighted serious doubts as to its legality, the risk that it would be considered a factor of unfair tax competition or the non-limitation over time of the benefits it contains. At the time, the Court stated that "the loss of income from tax revenues could be estimated at at least 50 % of the sum of the two above-mentioned exempt amounts, i.e. more than EUR 1.14 billion". Minister, can you tell me what the legal basis of this specific scheme is? Does it offer all the constitutional guarantees? How many foreign executives have benefited from this scheme in the last five years, year by year? If so, you may submit this part of the response in writing. What is the amount of exemptions granted to these foreign executives over the past five years, year by year? What is the total loss of personal income tax for these years? Is there a comparative study with tax practices in other states? What follow-up and changes have been introduced since the very critical audit of the Court of Auditors, published in 2003?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u97	My colleague, the special tax regime for foreign executives is based on IARC 92 and, in particular, on the specific expenditure provisions of the employer and those relating to the tax liability of non-residents. As far as the statistical data requested are concerned, I hope you will understand that they cannot be provided within the particularly short period of time imposed. I can still inform you that there are currently 20,809 files of foreign executives open and that, given the new applications submitted and the files closed in the course of a year, this figure is relatively stable each year. My administration has carried out a comparative study of tax practices in neighbouring States (France, the Netherlands, Luxembourg) and has concluded that Belgium does not provide a more favourable regime for foreign executives than these other States. Following the 2003 report of the Court of Auditors and its criticisms, my administration has repeatedly informed my predecessors, again at the end of 2012, by proposing a series of adaptations to the circular. In the meantime, I have asked to assess with maximum precision the extent of this aid measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u98	Minister, thank you. You did not answer the question that seems to me the most interesting: what is the loss for public finances related to this preferential tax regime for foreign executives? I quoted a figure in the Court of Auditors' report: more than one billion in 2003. While various sectors and types of taxpayers are heavily involved in restoring fiscal balance, it seems to me that it would be useful for you, as Minister of Finance, even if your predecessors have ignored the Court of Auditors' report, to look at the possibilities of coming to rules that are simply more reasonable. There were explicit and common-sense recommendations in the Court of Auditors' report. I do not understand why some taxpayers, whether they are diamond-makers or foreign executives, are granted exemptions that will not end, while the tax burden on all the others remains high. The debate on the fight against tax fraud can be transposed. If everyone would normally pay according to their ability to contribute, the system would be more tax fair. You don't rule out reworking the file. I will re-examine you in writing to obtain the answers you have not been able to give me given the deadlines. I will come back to you orally to know what you have done with the recommendations of the Court of Auditors on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u99	Question No 3543 by Georges Gilkinet is redirected to Mrs Sleurs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u100	Mr. President, Minister, I have found that the government is particularly generous with certain types of taxpayers: those who have 53 billion offshore, those who make diamonds or foreign executives. What fate do you reserve for those in difficulty? When I asked you in January about the situation of the Maintenance Claims Service (SECAL), you said: "In a study conducted by Professor Pacolet (UCL), it was estimated, on the basis of the 2009 data, that 4,295 families could be taken into account following the entry into force of the new legislation. This would represent 6,733 children. The additional budget cost is estimated at EUR 8 million. Whereas in 2014 the SECAL budget amounted to EUR 24.4 million, a budget of EUR 25.58 million was foreseen for the 2015 budget year in order to ensure the payment of advances on maintenance claims. It goes without saying that the situation will be rectified during budgetary control 2015, in March." Minister, do you have any new statistics on the number of additional families that will be affected by the SECAL advances as a result of the change in the ceilings? Have the figures changed since January? After confirming the existence of an under-financing of SECAL, can you tell me whether a budgetary adjustment for SECAL has been foreseen under the first budgetary control? How high? Within what time frame will it be effective?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u101	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, in December 2014, SECAL paid an amount of €1,966,460 to benefit 15,159 children for advances in December. In January, February and March 2015, amounts amounting to EUR 2 126 000, EUR 2 058 000 and EUR 2 136 000 were paid respectively for the benefit of 15,672, 15,891 and 16,293 children. Since the entry into force of the Act of 12 May 2013, on 1 January 2015, the number of children benefiting from advances has therefore increased by 1,134 children without us being able to say what the exact proportion is directly related to the level of income ceilings. The SECAL budget will be re-evaluated during the next budgetary control. SECAL has told us that up to now the resources available will be sufficient until September.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u102	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that the means will be re-evaluated in the next budgetary adjustment. The problem is that this is what you have already answered me in January about the next budgetary control, the one that has just ended. So you have not respected your word about a particularly fragile sector, which concerns children, families of divorced parents, women...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u103	Mr Gilkinet, I have confirmed to you that SECAL has sufficient resources until September. We must not highlight remarks that are part of a general reasoning!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u104	Mr Minister, I have explicitly quoted you: "It goes without saying that the situation will be rectified during budgetary control 2015, in March". These are your comments, you can consult the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u105	We verified and found that the SECAL has sufficient resources to operate until September.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u106	SECAL has the means to pay for the first months of the year, but on an annual basis it does not have it. Women's representative organisations are particularly concerned about the fate of the families concerned, in a context where your government decides on an index jump, the abolition of unemployment benefit supplements for part-time workers and takes a series of decisions against the weakest. You had the opportunity, here, to reassure. These are not extraordinary amounts compared to those mentioned above. You didn't. On the other hand, you have made the choice of giving gifts to taxpayers who have far more resources than those involved in the SECAL. This shows how symbolically your government is unfair and wrongly prioritized. I am particularly angry because I trust a minister when he tells me that the problem will be solved in March, and he is not. It's very serious! That's what you said: "It goes without saying that the situation..."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u107	That's not what I said! I said that, during budgetary control, we were going to examine the various items and what has already been achieved. We found that SECAL had sufficient resources until September.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u108	Minister, in French as in Dutch...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u109	Don't make a lie!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u110	You said: "It goes without saying that the situation will be rectified during budgetary control 2015..."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u111	We checked the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u112	No, not check but correct!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u113	Mr. Gilkinet, you questioned the minister. This one's responding. It is up to you to interpret his words.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u114	I will explain to him that in French, checking and correcting do not mean the same thing. Checking is making sure there are enough budget amounts. Correcting is putting things in their proper order, which you have not done, and I regret it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic138x.u115	Question No 3557 by Mr Stéphane Crusnière is postponed.
