ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u2	Colleagues, good afternoon. Following on from what was discussed in the Conference of Presidents, I would first like to inform you that all policy papers are in place. All policy notes are in Parliament. They will be distributed today or tomorrow, with one exception. That one exception concerns the policy paper on mobility. The Minister concerned has had some work in Parliament. The budgets will be distributed tomorrow. We also asked for a view of the bills that are supposed to be voted before the end of the year. The Prime Minister has informed me that the list cannot be handed over at the moment. But I quote: "The government will communicate urgently to the House as soon as possible those bills for which the benefit of urgency will be requested, so that parliamentary work can be organized in the best possible way before the end of the year."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u3	Mr. President, thank you for your approach to the Prime Minister's Office. I would remind all colleagues that the government committed, not eight days ago, to hand over all the policy notes to us. This is also reflected in the report of the Conference of Presidents, which mentions the end of October as the deadline. Today is 12 November and I note that not all the notes are available. Ms. Galant's note has not yet been given and the other notes have not been received until very recently. First of all, it is a real problem for the functioning of Parliament, but it is also a lack of respect for it. These policy notes are necessary for proper discussion of the budget. In the thematic committees, we will find it difficult to carry out a debate in time. We will talk about this at the Conference of Presidents. I ask you to organise the work of our committees in such a way that the budget can be dealt with in depth and respecting the work that the opposition parties must also do in relation to the stakes behind the budget question. Secondly, I would like to highlight the inability of the Prime Minister and his government to provide us at this time with a list of all the pieces of legislation that still have to be tabled in Parliament by the end of the year. Are my colleagues aware of the consequences of this on the organization of our own work, but also on the effectiveness of the government? Not being able, in mid-November, to communicate the texts to be voted by the end of the year gives the impression that the government is still in a period of learning. It has now been in place for more than a year. I cannot accept that we do not have today the list of bills that the government wishes to table before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u4	Mr President, I am not going to overbid the remarks made by our excellent colleague Jean-Marc Nollet. My question will be of a purely informative nature. First of all, I would like to thank you, because I know that you have intervened to ensure that the various members of the government who have not yet done so file their general policy notes as soon as possible. You tell us not only that the texts will be tabled after the cabinet tests have been revised, but also that the note will be distributed today or tomorrow. This is very important to the extent that it shows that you have been able to get the government to get a little bit out of hand. There is still the note on mobility. You have told us that the government will not be ready for this. This theme is not trivial or uninteresting. Beyond the cabinet debate, the government and parliament have been discussing the issue of vliegwet for several weeks, which must be addressed in the policy note. When, then, will it be filed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u5	My answer is very simple: the note will be filed on Monday.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u6	Mr President, you know that we do not use papers and that the questioner has two minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u7	Minister, this week the campaign on social protection for all was kicked off. A coalition of NGOs, 11.11.11, trade unions and mutualities make it their campaign for two years. We do not wish it on anyone: getting sick and unable to pay for medicine, losing your job, seeing your harvest lost and receiving no benefits, working a lifetime and not receiving a pension. Without social protection, that is the fate of 5 billion people in the world. There are 100 million people a year. The two crying babies in the 11.11.11 commercial were a symbol for this. The theme of social protection is more topical than ever. Yesterday, the Prime Minister said on the radio that if we want to stop the flow of refugees, we must invest in the miserable living conditions of the countries from which these people flee. That is what social protection is about: ensuring that people do not end up in the gutter when they get sick or lose their jobs. This week there was also a study of 11.11.11 and DGD stating that social protection is affordable. It's just about the political will to do it. Minister, social protection is made in Belgium. That's obvious. We have incredible experience and expertise in social protection. Olivier De Schutter is also a Belgian and UN expert. We also have the department of BELINCOSOC, which hardly anyone knows. They are today consultants for China to develop the supplementary pension system. Minister, this is a matter of political will. Do you want to work on this? How will you do that? Will you use the expertise of 11.11.11, trade unions, NGOs and mutualities in Belgian social protection development policy? What forms of cooperation are possible with BTC and BELINCOSOC? Will you also use the Belgian expertise that exists today in our partner countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u8	Mr President, Mrs Van Hoof, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the question. The theme of the 11.11.11 action is indeed social protection for all. Social protection is part of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which has been ratified since 1948. Social protection is enshrined in that declaration. Also in the sustainable development goals, which have as a general theme "End poverty in all its forms', there is a very clear passage on the need to develop adequate national social protection systems. As you know, Belgian development cooperation works on two axes. One axis is that of a rights approach; the other axis is that of economic development. Both axes are important for social protection. Firstly, in the area of the rights approach, we note that social protection, as much as the right to education and the right to health care, is a human right. This is part of a package in which we want to strengthen rights holders and rights seekers. However, if we want to organise social protection in a country, it will never be possible if there is no strong economy. Self-employed social protection is based on an economy which functions well and which has an effective tax system that can free up resources for that protection. You know that we are aiming for economic growth, not for the figure, but for the creation of inclusive, sustainable economic growth with the aim of allowing the entire population to benefit from that growth. Belgium has a lot of expertise in developing an efficient tax system. We have expertise in developing social security, but we are also good at developing an efficient tax system. Let me give you a few examples of what we are doing today. One example is Senegal, where we are developing a national health insurance system. A second example is Burundi, where today, of course, it is difficult, but where we have been working with the Office Burundais des Recettes for years. We also work very much together with the NGOs, for example with Masmut for the development of mutualities. In the area of the digital economy, too, we want to take further advantage of existing opportunities. It will be a central theme. We do this within our governmental work, but also together with the NGOs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Social protection is already important, but the aim is to improve social protection for all. This calls for investment. If 3% of GDP is invested in social protection, everyone can benefit from this social protection. It is important that Belgium helps, both in the tax system and in social security rights, and supports countries with its expertise. Gandhi said poverty is the biggest polluter in the world. Let us put social protection against that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u10	Minister, Prime Minister Cameron had just delivered his speech for a few minutes or N-VA President Bart De Wever said that the N-VA Europe wants to reform together with Cameron, according to his lines. In the following hours and days, I have heard one spokesperson from the other government parties tell a different story. So what is the government's line, Minister? What position will Belgium represent at the December summit? Furthermore, because I know that you are conveniently avoiding general questions, I have two specific questions. President De Wever states that what is good for the United Kingdom is good for our country. I have Cameron's letter with me. I note that in his first point, Mr Cameron asks that Britain, which is not a member of the euro area, should still have a right to block any decision taken in the euro area. Do you believe that it is in Belgium's interest to follow the Cameron line in terms of deepening, democratisation and strengthening the euro area? In the second point of his letter, Prime Minister Cameron asked for deregulation to be carried out. Do you think it would be in the interests of our country if we were to deregulate in Europe, which would lead to the social cemetery that Great Britain is today? I would like to take your position on these two points. Do you agree with President De Wever that both a blocking right for Britain on euro area reforms and deregulation leading to a social cemetery is the direction our country should go?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u11	Mr President, my question will be based on the views of my own party, my own group. I believe that this is better for the debate. First of all, on 11 November, many spoke about Europe yesterday to say that Europe has been the guarantee of peace and stability for 70 years. Let us not forget that, let us not shy away from it. However, as far as the British Prime Minister's speech is concerned, he has indeed put his cards on the table. He wants to make a deal and present it through a referendum. Let me say this is risky, a little tricky. There are dangers to a referendum, as we all know. The result of a referendum on elections is always uncertain. However, let us be very clear, an isolated UK, a UK retreating on its own island, is not a good thing, either for the UK or for the European Union. So there is indeed a threat to the British Prime Minister's speech. On the other hand, there is also an important opportunity. Minister, let's face it, Europe is not turning, the European Union is spinning hard. There is the economic crisis, the permanent Greek problem, and there is asylum and migration. The European Union is difficult to reach decision-making because there is always someone with 28 Member States who can or wants to block it, who can pass it on to the other Member States or who says he can't, but Europe can't. I therefore believe that there is also a ban on an opportunity for such negotiations. I would like to say very clearly that my group is in favour of a negotiation if the room is created for that. We're pro. What negotiation with what finality? We are prepared to negotiate if this leads to institutional reforms that will lead to a more politically effective Europe, a Europe that will make decision-making easier. For us, that is a federal Europe. It is clear that the current confederal approach of 28 Member States is not working and that we need a more federal Europe, a Europe that can thus also give a stronger voice to world politics. So, Minister, my question is whether the Belgian Government is prepared to start such a negotiation if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u12	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Europe is under pressure. On the one hand, Europe faces many challenges, many crises, not the least in terms of migration. On the other hand, there is a constant decline in legitimacy, and the citizen loses confidence in Europe. This is also reflected in the 2014 elections, with only 43% voting in the European elections. So today it is difficult to talk about some sort of Europhoric atmosphere, not at all. On the contrary, there is a need for a euro-realistic approach. That is also what Mr Cameron writes in his letter. He calls for a critical reflection of Europe. He asked that Europe should have a mirror, that we should think about how we can make Europe better and reform it. No one is asking for Europe to be abolished, the only alternative to Europe is Europe, but we must do so. We also welcome the initial response of our Prime Minister Michel last Tuesday in Het Journaal. He considers that Mr Cameron's appeal is not a problem, but rather an opportunity. It is an opportunity that we must seize to make Europe better. What does Mr Cameron ask? He is asking to evolve into a Europe with fewer rules, with less bureaucracy. Who could be against that? He asked for a Europe closer to the citizens, in which the support of national parliaments would be increased by placing the powers where they were best implemented. Who could be against that? He calls for a Europe that is more competitive, Mr van Open Vld. Who could be against that? I refer to the coalition agreement, which contains two references to this problem. Firstly, the government wants to bring citizens closer to Europe by striving for more subsidiarity. Secondly, it also wants a better interaction between Europe and the national parliament. Minister, will you discuss this critical reflection that Mr Cameron is asking for in the government? Is this government prepared to cross the Channel and indeed consider Mr Cameron's letter as an opportunity rather than a challenge?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u13	Mr President, Minister, after the many rumours that have been circulating in recent months, David Cameron and his government have cut down their cards and have expressed their demand for reforms of the European Union, which the British government considers important and necessary. He expressed their willingness to start negotiations with Member States, linked to a referendum to be held in his country in 2016 or 2017. I read Mr Cameron's letter. Several of the elements in it seem to me quite interesting. I am thinking in particular of the United Kingdom's desire to strengthen the single market. Other elements are highlighted, such as the preservation of the economic interests of non-euro area member countries, which I do not think is a scoop on the part of this country. Minister, could you tell me how much attention Belgium will pay to some of Mr Cameron's demands? So, what do you think of the veto power of national governments as a condition? What is your opinion on the possible limitation of rights for EU citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u14	Mr President, Minister, it is well known that the British have always been primarily interested in two aspects of their relations with the rest of the continent, namely the military alliance they are making through NATO and the single market. Unlike us, it had never really been a question for them to work towards a genuine political, social union, a genuine European citizenship with a sharing of values and principles in order to face together the great challenges of our time, namely employment, migration and the climate. In any case, they had never mentioned it as explicitly as they do today with what seems to be a real blackmail towards the European Union. Indeed, either we agree to comply with their European model or they will leave, which would destabilise the whole European scaffolding. Mr Minister, my question is simple: are you going to let the European project get out of hand? We attach great importance to this unique project in the history of the peoples, an extremely ambitious project, a very important project for all of us. Are you going to let this blackmail be done or are you going to demand that we keep these principles of European citizenship, of political union, this idea, which Cameron today wants to put aside, of an ever closer union to face together the important challenges of our time?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u15	Mr President, I will not respond to all the views of the various parties, nor to those of Presidents who are not in the hemisphere. That's not helpful.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u16	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u17	I did not hear anything because of your group, Mr Calvo. Let us try to be honest. I did not hear speakers take a stand in various speeches. For example, Mr van der Maelen, I have not heard the position of the sp.a, but you did ask two specific questions. Firstly, you must read Mr Cameron's letter carefully. As far as the euro area is concerned, he says clearly and clearly: "We are not looking for a veto on what is done in the euro area." There is therefore no veto. The letter is clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u18	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u19	I always come up with all the documents, Mr Van der Maelen. You mustn't try anything. I have the right documents. I have Mr Cameron's letter to Mr Tusk. He does not ask for a veto on the euro area. You need to reread that letter. Secondly, less bureaucracy may not be important for the sp.a, but it is for me. And why wouldn't that be possible? Moreover, a decision has already been taken by the current European Commission on less regulation. People want to stop introducing new rules into the European Parliament. More generally, the following. I have listened to the various comments. It's right, this is an opportunity, for both sides. It is an opportunity to do more in some areas. In the negotiations with the United Kingdom, we must indeed say that Europe must do more in the fields of foreign affairs, defence and security, and certainly in the area of migration. We have a number of questions. Not only Britain has questions, other countries also have questions. Indeed, Mr Cameron is also asking for difficult things. For example, it is difficult for us to oppose the European integration project. Other points are very positive. He wants more competitiveness in Europe, more job creation, less bureaucracy. Again, why not? Now it's just a letter. The negotiations are just starting. I have already contacted the Foreign Minister of the United Kingdom, and there were other contacts. We're just starting negotiations. That document has not yet laid down any modalities. We start with two references. Firstly, for us, it is better for the United Kingdom to be part of the European Union. There's no doubt about that. Secondly, however, we are also in favour of greater European integration in various areas. We shall now see whether it is possible with the United Kingdom and with the other partners to make progress on these two points. Mr Cameron has made proposals, including for greater competitiveness, but there are also proposals from other Member States. We are currently examining these proposals in detail. I know that Mr Van der Maelen has the capacity to comment ten minutes after a speech or an answer. We are currently carrying out several in-depth analyses. In this way we will find out what is or is not compatible with the treaties, because that is important for the next step. Once again, having a debate on better and deeper European integration is really an opportunity. We believe that this is the real objective of such a negotiation process.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u20	Mr President, as usual, Minister Reynders does not reply. Ten minutes after Mr Cameron's speech, the President of the N-VA advocated reform, along the lines of Cameron, away from the ever closer union, and now I hear Mr Dewael expressing a European federal creed here. So, Minister for Foreign Affairs, it is normal for a Member of Parliament to ask what the government's position will be. Secondly, I would like to make a few specific points. I brought Mr Cameron's letter. As far as the euro area is concerned, he asks that Britain be involved in any issues that affect all Member States. In other words, he calls for involvement in any decision of the euro area that has an impact on other Member States. Well, I do not know any decisions of the euro area that would have no effect on other Member States. N-VA chairman De Wever agrees with Cameron's question. Finally, the most important point. I did not talk about removing bureaucracy, because it is quite obvious that we are in favour of it. However, I have spoken about deregulation of his English. I should like to warn you that this is not the Europe we want. We have a good ally, particularly Mr John Major, former British Prime Minister, who said he was shocked at the impact of Cameron's policy on inequality in Britain and added that much more needs to be done in that country to close the gap between rich and poor. That kind of Europe, which also favours the N-VA, is not our choice. That is why I look forward with interest to the government's position.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u21	Mr President, some people need more time than they are allowed to use rules of procedure in order to make clear who they are opposed to instead of making clear what they are for, because I have not heard that. However, I am satisfied with the Minister's answer, because I have advocated an opportunity. Of course, the British Prime Minister's views on the future of Europe are not mine. I do not think that Brexit is a good thing, again, not for the European Union, nor for the UK. However, we must seize this opportunity to make progress. Belgium has always been at the cradle of more Europe, from negotiation to negotiation. I'm sure it shouldn't be any different now. Everyone in our country today feels that we need precisely more Europe to tackle the economic crisis, that we need more Europe to tackle migration and asylum effectively. I can make the list even longer. Then it must be over with blocking. We do not need a Europe of 28 Member States, but a federal Europe. God save us for some to argue that we should do more than 28 by getting further crumbling and squandering in some Member States. That is not the way of my group. So go into these negotiations in an offensive way, for a stronger European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We are pleased that you also see this letter as an opportunity. The letter has indeed given rise to a debate which is now beginning and which we have not yet had in the short time available to us, Mr van der Maelen. This is the reason for the debate. There is one thing that we have learned over the past few weeks and months, in particular that positions may sometimes be brought from one political angle, but that they lead to reflection, and so sometimes positions become not on behalf of one political party but on behalf of much more. So the debate is good and has its value, and it will be conducted extensively and comprehensively here, as you yourself say. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that this letter from Mr Cameron is a reason for achieving what is in our coalition agreement, namely more subsidiarity and better cooperation between the national Parliament and Europe. We are satisfied with these steps taken by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u23	Mr President, as a convinced European, I cannot, of course, agree with all the elements that have been put forward by David Cameron and his government. But I think, and I am pleased with your comments, that this first step must be taken as an opportunity to strengthen dialogue. The European Union will be better off if Britain continues to be a part of it. I am also pleased to have heard this plea for a stronger Europe, for a construction with more integration policies. This is something that my party has long supported and we will continue to make efforts in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u24	Mr Minister, I have listened to you well and I hope that in the future Belgian diplomacy will not be on the same line as that of the N-VA, whose Euroscepticism we know, and that of Mr Cameron, whose long-standing Euroscepticism we also know. No, I do not consider that Mr Cameron's proposals are an opportunity for Europe. It's a real scumbag of ambitions. No, Europe is not just a big market, it is much more than that. I think it will be necessary to continue to fight for this ambitious project, led by our fathers, led by Belgium, to remain on course. True European citizenship is needed to defend, together, within and outside the Union, values and principles and not just the market.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u25	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Burundi is extremely serious. As an introduction, I would like to quote the words of the President of the Burundian Senate he said last Sunday: "You must spray and exterminate those people who are only good at dying. I'll give you that order. Go ahead!" This is the order given by the President of the Burundian Senate to a part of his population to "exterminate" – these are his words – to harass in any case opponents, journalists, human rights activists. It is well known that the situation in Burundi is developing extremely dramatically. The Security Council has this question before it. Nor have you remained inactive with regard to this issue in Burundi. Minister, what is the status of the situation today? What initiatives are being taken by Belgium, the European Union and the international community? It is time to move from words to deeds. What is the situation of our nationals there? What are the security conditions for our citizens? Knowing the history of this region and this country, I believe it is imperative to ensure that what has already happened there does not happen again, that is, massacres and violence that are totally intolerable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u26	Mr President, Minister, Burundi is increasingly sinking into a serious and deep crisis. The situation of Burundians on the spot is catastrophic, with disappearances, imprisonment of journalists and opponents, looting, calls for hatred, murders. The situation is constantly more dramatic. There are increasing numbers of refugees on the roads and at the borders of neighbouring countries. The President's list of abuses has been growing ever since his desire to run for a third term in disregard of the Arusha agreements. In this context, we can only see the radicalization of anti-Belgian discourse, even in the highest spheres of power. Of course we can regret it. It was not enough to declare no grata our ambassador on the spot; incendiary speeches were made by some dignitaries in that country. Whatever the strong words used to describe this situation, the inaction of our country, the international community and Europe cannot be an option to find a political and peaceful solution. Minister, my questions are partly related to those of my colleague, Mr Dallemagne. Can you provide us with your analysis of the current situation and outline the government's overall strategy in this area, in particular on the diplomatic, defence and development cooperation dimensions? How do you position yourself on the statements of some for whom this conflict has a clearly genocidal aspect? What is the state of relations between our two countries at present? How do you respond to the attacks on Belgium? How will Belgium welcome the UN resolution? What actions could be taken within this framework? Can you give us your vision of what happened with the ambassador? What happened with our representatives on the spot? What measures are being taken to ensure their safety and possible departure?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u27	As has already been said, the situation in Burundi is exploding. Any new message that reaches us is more discouraging than the previous one. Against the Arusha agreements, against the Burundian constitution and against the international community, Nkurunziza is able to take on the third mandate as President. There is a very serious problem at the heart of the political and military power in that country and civil society is now being silenced. The press is no longer free and can no longer work. Human rights activists are being murdered or tried and even their children have to pay for it. Minister, a few weeks ago Burundi also withdrew the accreditation of the Belgian ambassador to Burundi. So the ambassador was kicked out. Yesterday, you had to go against allegations made against our country as if we were to arm the opposition and re-colonize Burundi. It seems to me that reason is far away. The moral response to the colonial past by the Burundian government party must not prevent us from defending the growth of democracy and the rule of law in Burundi, with legitimate leaders, with a judiciary working, and with a fight against impunity. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. How do you estimate the security situation of the Belgians in Burundi, particularly in view of the fact that our ambassador is no longer there and the allegations of neo-colonialism towards our country? What steps will our country take to ensure the necessary calmness and to draw international attention to the Burundian crisis? The problem concerns not only the Burundian people, but the whole region of the Great Lakes region, where there are still a number of elections to be held.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u28	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I obviously share the concerns expressed by colleagues, whether they are the majority or the opposition. It is a dossier which must bring us together on this subject. In his speech, recorded without his knowledge, the President of the Senate uses the word "work". This term was used with catastrophic consequences in the case of Rwanda, now several decades ago. We can't say this time that we didn't know! Minister, I would have liked to hear from you about the situation on the ground. Now that the ultimatum launched by the illegitimately elected president, Nkurunziza, has been exceeded - the call he had made to disarm the opposition - there is a difference between doing nothing and eventually evacuating the only Belgians on the spot. But what can the FPS Foreign Affairs do today? The knowledge of this region of Central Africa by our diplomats is internationally recognized. If Belgium knows the diplomatic field, what else can it do? You will reply to me that state-to-state development cooperation has been partially suspended. But what can the FPS toolbox do today in the field? Tomorrow, in the Security Council, a resolution on Burundi will be discussed. What initiatives are being taken by your departments to try to change the situation and put the case at the top of the pile of international cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u29	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the situation has already been described in detail. Four months after the elections in Burundi, the country is in danger of falling into a spiral of unbridled violence. It is not unthinkable that a civil war should occur. We are, of course, very concerned about the situation. The relationship between Belgium and Burundi is also more difficult. The accreditation of Mr Gedopt was withdrawn. As Mr Claerhout said, he was whistled back. The restoration of long-term stability is therefore very important. I have two questions for you, Minister. Firstly, were the steps that our country has already taken and which we support also effective? Can we take other measures to restore the political situation on the ground? Secondly, after withdrawing the accreditation of Ambassador Gedopt, will you plead for a new representation? Can you tell us how the talks with Burundi are going?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to confirm that the concern you are expressing is obviously shared by the government. Since the beginning of this year, we have tried to call President Nkurunziza to dialogue and to avoid embarking on this third mandate, which is likely to have the negative consequences that we have announced to him today. The situation is increasingly violent. The tone is getting more aggressive. Hate speech is often broadcast. I had the opportunity to receive in Brussels a human rights defender, Pierre Claver Mbomimpa. It had hardly happened in Brussels that his son-in-law and one of his sons were murdered in Burundi. We really need to be very concerned about this situation, especially since action has also been taken with regard to Belgium. Our ambassador, who is still in office, will probably come back soon, but we will not act quickly on the request that he be replaced. There is no point in imagining a replacement in the current context. More seriously, Belgium is taken as a scapegoat. I had the opportunity yesterday to point out that it was obviously absurd to think that we were providing arms to the opposition or that we would be at the origin in any way of the violence that is taking place in Burundi today. I would also like to thank all the speakers. So far, there is no indication of ethnic conflict, but we must always be vigilant. There is no indication of slippage on this level, but the speeches have been very clear and we know what they can allude to. I hope we avoid a cycle of incendiary statements. It's no use. So what should be done? First and foremost, we will continue the dialogue between Belgium and Burundi. I have had many contacts with my fellow foreign minister from Burundi, in New York City, as well as by telephone. For a few weeks now, we have been asking for very calm and not to use force and trying to establish a dialogue, in the spirit of the Arusha agreements. We are following the same reasoning for development cooperation. We stopped working with the police, which made sense, after so much violence on the field. We have also stopped bilateral development cooperation in the budgetary field. It is not useful to continue with this kind of government. The same reasoning is also followed at European level. At European level, sanctions have already been imposed on four members of the President's entourage who are responsible for a great deal of violence. In the area of development cooperation, we started the procedure in accordance with Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement. Perhaps we should move towards a suspension of development cooperation. The same reasoning is followed in the African Union. There too, there is pressure on Burundi. Now we are trying to move in the same direction with the United Nations Security Council. There are even observers for human rights from the African Union on the ground, only 16 at the moment, but we are trying to send more. What more can we do than engage in dialogue and take some measures on development cooperation? First, we must support the mediation that has been revived by Uganda. We will facilitate it, in particular by allowing the participation of several Burundian actors who are now refugees at home. We will also take new security measures. I am not going to go into detail, but we have already strengthened the security of the embassy in the last few weeks. In addition, we are aware of the situation of the 500 Belgians on the spot as well as of more than seven hundred nationals from other countries who depend on our responsibility. All contacts were made with the Defence to see how best to manage this situation. Travel notices are already very strict regarding Burundi. We will also improve the humanitarian approach. My cooperation colleague has committed an additional EUR 4 million for the reception of refugees in the region. I will conclude by saying that it is absurd to imagine that we are playing any role in the violence on the spot. From the beginning, we call for dialogue and calm. We are, of course, doing this, first and foremost, to the Burundian government and its President, to whom the primary responsibility lies. We are also doing so for members of the opposition who would use hate speech. We must ask both sides to return to dialogue. Having said that, it is clear that the Security Council is looking not only at possible sanctions and a call for dialogue, but also at a possible contingency planning if further action is needed. I hope that everything that is being done will help restore calm, reconnect the sons of dialogue and prevent violence from degenerating as, unfortunately, many signals and facts tend to show today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u31	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your explanation. Nevertheless, we are hampered by three factors in Belgium's action. The first one is not up to us, and you stressed it. I am referring to this extreme aggressiveness of certain dignitaries of the regime in place. I am not talking about the population, which shows no hostility to us. Secondly, when we want to appeal to the United Nations, it must be recalled that we make a very marginal contribution to peacekeeping operations. Thus, we have only six officers out of a hundred and eighteen thousand peacekeepers deployed around the world. It is a real shame on the part of Belgium, which is weakening us. Finally, and I know that we have the same view, even though this issue has never moved, the Senate resolution still prevents us from conducting peacekeeping operations in the Great Lakes region. If we could remove this obstacle, our diplomacy would be stronger in the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u32	Minister, thank you for your answers. Indeed, we cannot stand by when we see the deep crisis in Burundi. I invite you to continue to make every effort to renew a dialogue and, above all, to try to achieve mediation. You mentioned a series of things that have been done. The freezing of cooperation should not be the only solution. It is true that millions have been released for neighbouring countries, but care must be taken to help the population because the demand is enormous. It is an entire region that is likely to ignite if the conflict continues in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer. I read in the press a few days ago that you prefer to work behind the scenes. In this case, I don't really care if you work for or behind the scenes. I believe you will have to use all possible diplomatic and political means. I believe that it is a good choice to concentrate on Burundi's dialogue as a priority. I believe that it is always important to bear in mind that it is not just Burundi, but that the stability of the entire Great Lakes region is at stake. I believe that you should also consider the possibility of extending the UN and EU sanctions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u34	Mr Minister, Belgium will have to deliver all the information it has, including military intelligence, to all the allies who are likely to intervene at a time which is expected to be crucial and which, of course, I do not hope. At the political level, you gave the credentials to the Ambassador of Burundi on 15 September. Today, it is a question of the Belgian ambassador present in Burundi being dismissed. It is time to use the strong way and act in the same way. President Nkurunziza does not understand the weak way, the way we used it. The question I asked in committee was the reason why the letters of credence were so quickly given to the Ambassador of Burundi in Brussels on 15 September, knowing that the Burundian power could avail itself of continued relations with Belgium. Today, it is a matter of telling the Burundian authorities forcefully that their way of acting is not correct, and this implies diplomatic sanctions now. A diplomatic sanction is also symbolic, it is to send the Ambassador of Burundi back to his country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u35	Minister, we are pleased that you have made the point about the false accusations made by the Burundian Government about Belgium's involvement. We are pleased that you are continuing the dialogue and that you are trying to resume a political dialogue. It is less important whether this happens before or behind the scenes. What is important, however, is that you follow the line of government, maintaining the conditions for financial support. We must always look at what is being done in Burundi before the money is transferred.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u36	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, in early November, cities and municipalities received budget estimates for the additional PPI, noting that they were dismayed by decreases of up to 30% in revenue forecasts. It's never before seen! The Sud Presse group was today entitled "A €200 million holding up on Walloon municipalities". This title is hard, but it is commensurate with the negative impact it will have on the municipalities and on the citizens. Mr Minister, is this delay the result of a problem with the functioning of your services or of a political will to ensure the budgetary trajectory of entity I, to mask budgetary problems, on the backs of municipalities and citizens? The municipalities will have difficulty in closing their budgets and citizens will later receive tax recovery, which will have an effect on their purchasing power. How will you reduce the backlog of recruitment and ensure regular recruitment in the future? On the other hand, referring to the documents provided by the FPS Finances, this is not simply a slip since a third party will not be recovered in 2016. I would point out here that this has nothing to do with the tax shift. Can you give us the reason? This will, in any case, have serious consequences for the citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u37	Mr President, Minister, my questions are similar, but they are slightly less relevant to the municipalities. The Association of Flemish Cities and Municipalities still starts from the principle that advance payments will be received. This will be communicated to the municipalities in Flanders. If that were not the case, this would have to be notified as a matter of urgency. This would seriously alter the budget of the Flemish municipalities. However, that is not my main concern. At the beginning of 2015, your party colleague Rob Van de Velde asked a question about the collections of 2014. Such questions are asked every year by Members of Parliament, but this time they were not answered, which is weird. My question is, therefore, how many collections were actually made in 2014. How much is the percentage? As you know, the previous government has constantly accelerated the debt of all evils, from 58 to 76 %. We thought that was a lot of things ourselves, but that's how it happened. For 2015, it is said that the state reform has slowed that down. That is possible, but it is about July, when traditionally 500 000 attacks, and not more, are brought in. That cannot be the reason for such a massive delay. My specific question is therefore how many collections you will be able to do in 2015 for the 2015 attack year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to listen to the speakers? From my point of view, Mrs Temmerman, after all, the noise is overwhelming.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u39	Mr President, Minister, if I am well informed, it was last May that you met with the Unions of the cities and communes of this country and the meeting went well. You made a good impression. The unions have tended to give you the benefit of the doubt. Since then, bad news has accumulated and the press releases that are being published are getting harder and harder on you. I will not go back to the taxation of intercommunals. The debate is probably out of date. But it was already a bad blow to the municipalist world. According to your department, the tax shift will have an impact of 264 million in 2021. However, as of next year, impacts will be felt at the level of the municipalities, since they have just been informed of them. Most importantly, PPI revenues are now being announced in freefall. Indeed, the loss announced at year-end 2015 is very significant: 10, 15, 20, 25, or even 35% in some cases. In any event - perhaps you will give us figures - the 2016 forecast will not compensate for the 2015 shortfall. Therefore, Minister, how do you explain these differences between the initial estimates and the year-end figures? Do you completely exclude calculation errors? Your department is sometimes used to it. Is it a delay in recruitment that is involved? Thank you for explaining this. How, for subsequent years, are you going to restore the reliability of the budget estimates of the Department of Finance, because it is, in a way, your credibility? When are you finally going to put in place a system of advances so that the municipalities receive, on a regular basis, monthly amounts that allow them to protect them from these variations and cash flow problems? It has been announced for some time, but will this system finally be operational in 2016? I have tabled a bill in this regard and I invite you to take it up with me. More fundamentally, how do you envisage relations with local authorities? How do you envisage the compensation that is expected? The measures your government is taking are more and more painful. Can you tell us what measures we can take to compensate in some way for this bad news, in addition to the problem of administrative costs that could be removed, the reductions in employers' contributions for contract workers in local authorities, this system of advances? Can you bring us better news than those that fell at the beginning of the month?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u40	Mijnheer Vande Lanotte, mijnheer Daerden, I propose to group the answers into three points. I will also respond in even more detail to Mr Dispa. Mr Vande Lanotte, in 2014 a total of 4.3 million attacks were launched for the 2014 attack year. For the whole of 2014 there were 6.9 million attacks until 30 June. For the 2015 attack year, a total of 3,4 million attacks were launched. It must be borne in mind that attacks will continue to take place in November and December. You yourself said somewhat ironically that there was a serious delay following the implementation of the sixth state reform. However, that is the reality. By the end of August 2014, we had already committed 1,5 million attacks, which was almost negligible at the same time in 2015, literally only a few thousand. A very important catch-up movement was made in October and will continue in November and December. Thirdly, as regards the claim of the VVSG, it is correct as regards the effective payment. As last year, there will be an advance for the municipalities, for which the recent revaluation of revenue is lower than the initial estimate. In the meantime, the municipalities have received the necessary information from the FPS Finance. The advance will be paid in December. As far as structural reform of this system is concerned, we are looking fully into this with the services of the FOD. It is a complex matter and it is not easy, but I hope to be able to make progress in the relatively short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u41	Minister, I am disappointed with your answers. The fact that the delay is due to the sixth reform of the State is a little short. Indeed, with modern methods, including Tax-on-web and simplified statements, a few clicks allow you to enroll! No, it takes time! This is surprising and does not solve the problems of citizens and municipalities. You say that the problem will be solved by an advance, but you know as well as I do that it does not have the same impact in terms of budgetary balance, deficits in communal finances that will be posted on 31 December. Can we have an accurate record of the calculations in order to have an overall view of the situation? The Socialist Group will table a motion for a resolution to maintain the usual rate of recruitment in order to ensure the purchasing power of taxpayers and to set up a mechanism that immunizes communal finances from delays in recruitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for the figures, which indicate that there was a serious delay in 2014. After all, you are at 62 %, while in 2013 it was 76 %. If the figure from 3.5 million to the end of October 2015 is correct, which I do not doubt, it should be possible to approximate the five million by the end of the year. In that case, it is strange that the reports differ greatly from them. This could mean that the expected income from the personal income tax has also fallen dramatically, which is very bad news for your 2014 budget. We have to ask questions about this, because that would be a very big budgetary problem. If this makes such a big difference for the municipalities, where only one percent is involved, it means that overall revenue is significantly reduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u43	Minister, your answers will not make it possible to close the debate. Both on the causes and on the remedies, your answer is insufficient. You blame the delay in the sixth reform of the State. Frankly, she's got a good back! This cannot be considered credible by local authorities. As for remedies, you are announcing structural reforms by saying that they are difficult to implement and you are not committed to any timetable. You're not a municipalist, and I'm not grieving you, minister. But you need to know that when you harm the financial health of local governments, you undermine the services provided to the population. You are putting jobs at risk, because often local authorities will increasingly face the need to reduce the volume of employment to compensate for bad news. Or you encourage them to increase local taxes, which is contradictory to the policy you want to pursue at the federal level. If, as a municipalist, you are not convinced of this, be it in any case as Minister of Finance in charge, in a way, of budgetary and financial loyalty between the entities of this country. You cannot at the same time demand the balance of local authorities, constantly transferring charges to them (to CPAS, to emergency areas, to police areas) and depriving them of structural revenues. This approach is not defensible and cannot continue. I invite you to find structural solutions quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u44	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know how well you know the youth home sector, but I myself am a youth home product. I have had a lot of fun there, built a lot of friendships and also learned a lot; I have learned DJs, taps, meetings, organize activities, make decisions, take responsibility; I have even learned the basic principles of accounting. In the end, that's what we're talking about in youth homes. I would like to emphasise that the youth housework is a very important, quite unique form of youth work. It is a rather unique form in Flanders that is hardly known elsewhere in Europe. This unique form is also recognised, it is supported and subsidised. This is in stark contrast to the measure announced last week. The VAT administration pointed out that youth homes that run more than 50 000 euros out of sales could no longer benefit from a VAT exemption. In fact, the VAT administration says that such well-run youth homes would otherwise no longer have a turnover of EUR 50 000, which could no longer be considered as a form of youth work, but as a form of commercial activity. I think that is a far-reaching and fundamental choice, which I cannot immediately follow. The recognition of youth homes is regulated through Flemish decrees and by the municipal authorities, and the VAT administration intervenes with this measure. Minister, to what extent will the measure be effectively enforced? Is this still being discussed with the Youth House Federations? To what extent will you take any further steps in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u45	Mr Van den Bergh, I am also a youth club product; at that time it was called a youth club. I've learned things there that you've alluded to. I also learned things there about which I will not now make public statements. All madness on a stick, it is a question of exempting young people's homes from VAT, as far as services provided and the supply of goods closely linked to the protection of children and young people are concerned. That's a quote. According to European VAT rules, it is now apparent that the operation of a beverage establishment is intrinsically outside the above-mentioned social objective, so that the VAT exemption cannot be applied to the turnover generated by it. Decisions by the Court of Justice in this area are also quite clear. However, as a tolerance, my administration assumes that the turnover generated from the operation of such a public service remains exempt from VAT, provided that it does not exceed EUR 50 000 on an annual basis. Now I come to your specific questions. Firstly, before that decision was published, there was indeed consultation with the youth house federations, both Flanders and Wallonia. During these consultations, there was also a very clear emphasis on the fact that this does not mean a tax increase for youth homes. If the threshold of EUR 50 000 is exceeded, the Youth House may still apply VAT on its incoming transactions as a deduction under normal procedures. Secondly, the distinction between exempted socio-cultural activities, such as the organisation of a performance or an exhibition, and responsible pub activities can be made quite easy in practice. As explained in detail in the decision, the occasional organisation of a party, a cake sale, a feast or whatever is exempt, insofar as it can be clearly demonstrated that those proceeds are indeed used for the socio-cultural activities of youth work. Last but not least, on your fourth question, I can answer that the decision will indeed take effect from 1 January 2016, so that there can be no return to possible infringements that would have been committed in the past. In this sense, the decision therefore provides legal certainty for the sector. If, on the basis of the turnover achieved so far in 2015, the Youth House finds that the threshold of EUR 50 000 will indeed be exceeded, then the Youth House in question will have more than a month and a half to identify itself with the VAT office under which it falls.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u46	Thank you, Minister, of course, for your answer, but I find it difficult to live with it. Forty-five years of VAT legislation for youth homes is being pushed aside with one measure. Forty-five years the youth homes have been regarded as functioning today. The fact that drinks are often tapped there is correct. But that is part of the overall operation and the resources generated are also used to finance that operation. The reference to Europe is, of course, always easy. However, I have not yet seen any statement by Europe specifically directed at youth homes. There are certain rulings on the interpretation of VAT legislation, but not specifically on youth housing. The Flemish youth houses have a rather unique position in Europe. I doubt that Europe is specifically targeting these youth homes. I believe that further consultations are needed here. You refer to the September meeting. I know about that. There was a discussion at the time, but there was no agreement between the two. I do not call that a final consultation. Then one can expect further initiatives to be taken to resolve this problem together. I regret that they have not been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u47	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is not up to public opinion to determine whether someone is guilty, as it is also up to the same public opinion to determine the penalty. That's the judge's order. It is your responsibility, Minister, to ensure that the same judges have the necessary instruments to ensure the correct application of the penal law. This also means an actual state of the criminal record. It is also your duty, Minister, to ensure that penalties, once they have been imposed, are actually implemented. The fact is that more than 300 000 judgments and judgments have not been introduced into the Central Criminal Register. This means the judge doesn't know who's standing in front of him. Does that person already have one, two or maybe even 20 offenses in his name? In this way, the judge cannot arrive at a correct measurement of punishment. The fact is, and this is much worse, that it is only years later that the execution of a judgment is being carried out because the prosecutors are not instructed to execute a driving ban or a prison sentence until the judgment is entered into the database. As a result, drivers and persistent, hard-hitting traffic offenders continue to make victims, Minister. On the other hand, I note that our road code does provide for very severe penalties. Traffic offences can indeed be punishable by imprisonment in certain cases, but these penalties are not enforced. I have two questions. Firstly, what are you going to do to make the Central Criminal Register topical? When can we expect this? Secondly, what are you waiting for to have the penalties actually carried out?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u48	Minister, I also have a question about your statements in the press about your wish to see prison sentences actually applied, including prison sentences of less than four months. First, it is a clear signal towards this sense of impunity that is not acceptable. Secondly, it is a clear signal also to the population and especially to the victims who have this feeling of injustice; therefore your expression has found all its meaning and all its interest. What people may be unaware of today is that the legal arsenal of the Criminal Code already makes it possible to punish dangerous road behaviour since in the event of involuntary homicide, the Penal Code increases the penalty with a sentence of between three months and five years. In the case of assault, it ranges from eight days to one year's imprisonment. It is, of course, up to the judge, depending on the circumstances before him or her, to make his or her decision sovereignly. The difficulty, however, lies in the contradiction between your desire to reduce prison overcrowding and to enforce sentences. Minister, have you made any progress on the sentencing scale with respect to the problem of drivers and repeat offenders? In relation to this, you have hoped for increased sentences and increased penalties for recidivism. With regard to imprisonment and alternative sentences, would you like to draw inspiration from the French system? In France, in the case of imprisonment, there is a real categorization of prisoners, i.e. road inmates are assigned to specific wings so as not to be mixed with other types of offenders and receive training in prison that will make them more aware of the risks and damage they have caused to third parties. As for those who are not imprisoned but who receive the penalty of an alternative penalty, do you wish to strengthen what relates not to training but to the correction of certain behaviors which have caused dangers or even drama in families, as is the case in France and already a little in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u49	Mr Minister, my fellow Members have already said that we are frequently faced with serious traffic offences, such as driving without valid insurance or without a valid driving licence. What's worse is that this happens all the time. Of course, such things cannot be allowed to happen. If we in the media are faced with things that are fateful, then that is all the more touching to us. We know that the police courts are doing their best to provide an appropriate response and impose sanctions, but they are not easy to deal with. They are faced with, among other things, a lack of information flow through the Central Criminal Register and the fact that penalties are not properly implemented afterwards. They lack certain instruments. What measures are you considering, Minister, to speed up and improve the implementation of the criminal record and the flow of information? Do you also consider certain adaptations to criminal law and the traffic code?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we must no longer allow prison sentences under one year to take place in a future criminal code and in a future road traffic law. It doesn't make sense to pronounce punishments below a year. It is not about the execution of the sentence but about the law of punishment. This does not mean, therefore, that we should not increase the penalty against a number of road offences. We certainly have to do that, for example, for driving without a driving licence or when the right to drive has been withdrawn. As far as the execution of the penalties is concerned, you know that we are not currently carrying out the penalties under four months. In addition, all penalties between four months and three years are carried out with the electronic anklet, often below the legally defined third party, which is therefore illegal. We must be honest in that. What will we do about this situation? First of all, we must ensure that there is a place in our prisons in order to be able to carry out that sentence in cases where we wish to impose the prison sentence effectively, not by means of the electronic anklet but by means of effective imprisonment. As you know, in the Justice Plan and in the communication last week, I proposed a number of measures to facilitate the relief of prisons in the area of pre-trial detention, of foreigners without a residence permit and of interns. There is a steady decline in the number of prisoners at the moment, which should allow that sentence to be carried out in cases where a prison sentence is needed. About the criminal record and the databases, I can report that the MACH database of the police courts is working properly at the moment. It is therefore not true that the police judges can only be given access through the criminal register to the information that has been given a serious penalty for road crimes. However, it is clear that the criminal record is quite incomplete. I have announced that we are also in the process of bringing the two hundred thousand non-criminal convictions from the MACH database into the criminal register by linking both databases. For the hundreds of thousands of convictions that are not even included in the MACH database, I have recruited temporary staff, which is currently completing criminal records. Mr Goffin, as regards the revision of legislation on road and traffic offences, I believe that the French example can inspire us. I must always speak in a very nuanced way when I am talking about this, because I share my competence, on the one hand with Minister Galant and, on the other hand, with regard to the enforcement of electronic sentences and working and probation sentences, with the Ministers of the Communities responsible for justice and welfare, Messrs. Vandeurzen and Madrane. I believe that we must at all costs seek to further refine not only the offences but also the penalties. Self-confiscation for cars seems to me to be a truly appropriate punishment for many of the offences in question, as well as the working sentences in the vicinity of victims of a road accident caused by a reckless or even an offender. These are the few things I wanted to deliver. In the beginning of next year, we will come with a bill on the enforcement of sentences, which will refine this, probably by proposing to execute at least half of all sentences, and not one third as is currently the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u51	Mr President, Minister, I think that we urgently need to go with the committee and with you. You say that you provide more staff for the Registrys to adapt the MACH database and introduce all those judgments into that Central Criminal Register, but more than one access is necessary. What is the point of providing four people if one can only work with one at a time on that computer? I think we should look at the area where the shoe is pinching. There are effective problems and we need to recognise them and address them. As far as the execution of the penalties is concerned, you refer to the past. We come from a situation where punishments up to a year have not been carried out. We have evolved towards a execution of the sentences up to three and four months. Minister, the court can only execute if it has knowledge of the verdict. Lack of space is no excuse. If the court does not even know of a criminal conviction and a prison sentence of one or more years one cannot even carry out. Something urgently needs to be done to transfer information and instruct the public prosecutors. That is your mission and we are counting on you to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u52	Minister, thank you for your answers. I note with satisfaction your willingness to pursue the path of ending impunity. I also note your wish that the victims be heard. The configuration of competences within our country means that different actors are involved in this policy and it is through the consultation and cohesion of all these powers that we can strengthen road safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u53	Indeed, Minister, it is very important that the staff employed can complete this within a certain period of time, so that all these data are correctly available. With regard to the implementation of the penalties, we look forward to the measures that you will be presenting at the beginning of next year and the possible legislative adjustments. You're talking about impounding a vehicle. Perhaps the confiscation of a vehicle is not the miracle solution, but if it were to be included in the penal code as an autonomous penalty, that could be a step forward. There will always be loopholes in the net, but we must use all the means to make it difficult for repeaters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u54	Minister, initially, I was thinking of asking the Prime Minister my question as we learned that you had been dispossessed of some of the expertise in this area. Given the current situation, it is important to be able to ask you questions about three hot issues: the climate issue, Doel 1 and Doel 2 (the financial text) and the issue of cracks. Madam Minister, we are 17 days from the beginning of the Paris Conference and Belgium still has no climate agreement on the allocation of efforts. We have lost all credibility in this regard. We are seventeen days from this Conference and three days from the deadline that you yourself indicated to Parliament for the vote on the financing law in connection with the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2. We still have no text that was tabled in Parliament three days before the deadline! It has been twenty days since you announced that there was an agreement – or a pre-agreement – on the distribution of burden sharing and twenty days later, there is no proposal that is the subject of consensus between the three Regions. On Doel 1 and Doel 2, will you abide by the timetable set out in the law? It explains that: "The legislator determines how the fee is to be calculated and collected before 15 November. The Convention shall be signed before 30 November." This text was adopted here in Parliament. Is it correct that the decision on Doel 3 and Tihange 2 is imminent? I know that you are no longer competent on much, but I hope that you will answer us on the question of the timetable. Finally, where are you in relation to the climate?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u55	Mr President, Madam Minister, the explanatory memorandum to your bill extending Doel 1 and Doel 2 states that "the legislative section of the Council of State points out that the normative function cannot be exercised by concluding agreements with the owner of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 nuclear power plants". There is therefore no question of making the law through a convention. It was therefore your intention to see how to enter into an agreement with a legal basis before November 15 or 30. Minister, the general policy note you sent us on November 6 fully reflects the elements of your press release at the end of July. It was also mentioned that the Constitutional Court had given the State three reasons under the financial agreements. In my view, we must not change a mechanism that has shown its effectiveness. I think I'm not the only one, even among the majority, to think that. Minister, given the deadlines – we're at J-3, J-18, you're going to have a difficult end of November! – I would like you to be able to take stock of the financial situation and the negotiations with nuclear operators. Are you currently negotiating with Electrabel for Doel 1 and Doel 2 or with EDF which has shares in a number of power plants, with the risk that equality will be undermined? Is it true that a bill has been passed to the Council of State to fix the amount of the fee? If, as you have announced, you have obtained an agreement on the 20 million fees, what are the current negotiations about? No doubt only on the amount of the pension tax. But, in this case, why did you mention, on page 4 of your policy note, that the tax will amount to 40% of the profit margin? Can you give me your precise definition of profit margin? Since a decision will have to be taken before November 30, is there a plan B in the event that this is not repeated? Finally, today we are talking about the likely reopening of Doel 3 and Tihange 2 before the end of 2015. Can you confirm this information?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin by addressing the issue of nuclear power. You know very well that negotiations are continuing in close cooperation with the Prime Minister's Office. As for timing, the law that was passed in June 2015 clearly indicates in the articles on which you voted – unlike us, of course – that only the date of November 30 counts. With regard to Doel 3 and Tihange 2, several Belga dispatches appeared in the press from 1 p.m. Your 11-hour written question, therefore, does not include this new element. I can't answer you, because only AFCN can do it. This was very clearly mentioned in a dispatch that came out at 3 p.m. You know very well that it is the AFCN that must, at some point, give the green light to restart these two plants. I am not in a position to answer you and must limit myself, like you, to the latest information. Electrabel had indicated on its site that this restart would take place no longer in 2015, but at the beginning of 2016. Meanwhile, just like you, I'll see what happens. I am waiting for the nuclear safety officer to speak in this regard. Secondly, it is clear that the negotiations also involve Electrabel and EDF-Luminus. With regard to burden sharing, the negotiations that have resumed will continue next week, just a few days from COP21. Everyone is aware of the need to close an agreement before it. It is in this context that discussions with the regional ministers are continuing on what is called – it is regrettable – a pre-agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u57	Minister, you don't know, you don't know anything! The Federal Agency must itself publish its decision. I ask that we have access, as in 2013, to the documents filed by Electrabel prior to the decision. In 2013, we had three months to analyze them before the decision was made. Here, nothing is yet published and, once again, everything will be decided before we have the information! Concerning Doel 1 and Doel 2, you tell us that the only law is on November 30th. Your statements, included in the record, speak on 15 November for the vote on the text of the law and on 30 November for the convention. Even if we were to take the text of the law on 30 November, do you really think that Parliament will be able to meet in committee, when the text is not yet received here and it is not even adopted at second reading in the government, and then to meet in plenary to adopt the text? You have not given your real agenda and your real working method to keep a timetable, which is untenable if we respect Parliament! And let me have a lot of doubts about that!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u58	Minister, I'm a little surprised. The questions were precise and the answers are avoided or vague! I did not have an answer about the nuclear rent, except that you said explicitly that you were negotiating with the operators. So you negotiate an amount of tax with the taxpayer, it's extraordinary! It is as if every taxpayer could negotiate with his or her contribution controller the amount of his or her taxes! It's the world upside down! The same applies to the 30 November deadline. We do not know whether the notice was sent to the Council of State for a first bill. What about the future of Doel 3 and Tihange 2? You're referring to other information. We will therefore meet again for those questions which have not been answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u59	The questions will be answered by the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u60	Mr. Minister, you represent Mr. Jambon. However, I would have preferred to speak to the Minister of the Interior. So I will do against bad fortune good heart! Minister, in our democracy, the police have an important mission: to strengthen and ensure the safety of our citizens. In my view, this security is not built on fear or violence. This is not the first time, Mr President, that I have the opportunity to speak in this Chamber about the actions of the local police task forces in Antwerp. Last time, it was after Mortsel's drama where there was man's death. Even today, we are subject to a topicality at the very least intriguing. The press reports on the events that took place on 1 November in a juvenile centre, where in order to control a fourteen-year-old Syrian refugee, who had certainly experienced significant trauma during her small life, this task force had to be used, which clearly intervened in force by robbing the girl with a weapon, even if it was a non-lethal weapon, and by controlling her with rubber bullets. It's not annoyance. Your leader, the mayor of Antwerp, said pretty quickly that the police had done a good job. Personally, I believe that perhaps it is a strengthening of the idea that disproportionate means can be used in any situation, that there is no longer a framework, no more rules and that we can do about what we want. After the Mortsel incident, Committee P had already conducted an internal investigation. He announced today that he will also initiate an internal investigation, which I welcome. A number of recommendations were already made at the time on how these intervention teams were formed, on recruitment, training and rules of engagement. Therefore, in view of the existence of a report by Committee P on the Mortsel tragedy, what follow-up has been given to this report? Is there particular control over recruitment, training and rules of engagement? Is the unit involved in the operation referred to in the press identical to that of the Mortsel incidents?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u61	Mr Minister, we were indeed informed about what was to be called the shooting incident in Antwerp. This morning we heard that an investigation is being carried out by the P Committee. Let us understand each other, I suppose that this investigation by the P Committee in such a matter is rather informative, and we cannot oppose it. Objectivity must be the message in everything. Objectivity must be above all else. I think certain reactions to the police are somewhat overwhelmed. At first sight, I believe that the police, who were summoned in a very difficult situation, have done their job. Before I draw any further conclusions, I would ask you, Minister, whether, in recent days, new elements, new facts or new cases have become known to your services to shed light on this matter? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u62	Mr Minister, I would like to start by quoting the special intervention services: today it is the intervention patrols that are being directed first to a dangerous mission, but in extremely dangerous situations it seems to us that we should immediately send specific tactical teams with even better protective equipment on the ground. I read a second quote: "The Rapid Response Teams will be deployed in situations where armed or dangerous criminals endanger the security of citizens and other policemen." Mr Minister, the Antwerp police website is used to explain what the special intervention services are for, the term "armed or dangerous criminals'. We can, of course, discuss its definition. However, I believe that we can ask questions about these facts when choosing to use such intervention services. Is this about dangerous criminals? I believe that is absolutely not the case. There's been a lot of criticism. Of course, we weren't there, but we immediately heard the Chief Constable say there's no problem. The mayor also said there's no problem. The P Committee says it would like to take a look at the matter. I am very pleased that the Committee P will look into the matter, because now the message has been given that a 14-year-old who threatens to hurt himself with a glass must shoot at it; it is apparently the only way to resolve this situation. However, it concerns people who specialize in the performance of very dangerous situations. The only solution they see is shooting at minors. That is the reality. I therefore have the following questions, Minister. Do you, or does the Minister of the Interior think it is normal for firearms to be used against minors who are in such a situation? Are there any guidelines for the use of those weapons? That is an essential question. Are there any guidelines? Are there conditions attached to the use of those weapons? If that were not the case, will you issue directives? Will you possibly intertwine existing guidelines? What lessons did you learn from that incident?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u63	Mr Minister, I had actually asked the Minister of the Police, but today I am receiving an answer from the Minister of the Army. This shows, of course, how quickly such files are switched. Actually, I'd rather the file just stayed with the police, because that's what it's all about. So you're gonna have to do a little exercise today. It is not yet directly the army that intervenes, but it is about a certain militarisation of the police. That's what it's about, and that scares me. I don't want to banish the fact that a police unit shot a 14-year-old kid last week. That's what it's about. It's not a banal matter. It's not a question of efficiency, it's about shooting a 14-year-old. That is what the debate is about. What did the Commissioner for Children's Rights say about that yesterday? Let me read it to you, because they were harsh words. Mr Bruno Vanobbergen clearly says that we reject children who have fled war again with weapons. The fact that the answer to the vulnerability of a young person and of an institution is a bullet is absolutely unacceptable. They don't shoot at children. Kids don't get shot. That is not just the assessment of the Commissioner for Children's Rights, it is a basic principle of our democracy. Kids don't get shot. Minister, the reason for setting up the SRT was the fight against terrorism. Where is the fight against terrorism here? Democratic organisations had already said that such militarisation would lead to the failure to respect basic rights in democracy. Is shooting at a 14-year-old child the fight against terrorism? That is not a fight against terrorism, Minister. It is said that there have been four interventions for suicide attempts. That's not supposed to happen, is it? It is not the intention to set up an SRT against suicide attempts, rather set up a psychological team. I have one specific question. On 21 October 2009, Mrs Turtelboom replied to my question in the Committee on Justice: "The police area of Antwerp was granted a limited authorisation for the weapon FN 303 in December last year. So the minister says it was a limited admission. The use case of these weapons is therefore limited and clearly defined. Minister, do you think that the use case of this weapon has been exceeded in Antwerp or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the mayor has already spoken about the intervention of these policemen. The P Committee has initiated an investigation and I believe it is appropriate to wait for the results of this initiative. I can tell you that the weapon in question is part of the particular weaponry. It has been in several areas for years. The regulation and monitoring of its use are very strict and an arms commission exists. I understand the divergent reactions but try to objectify at most and await the report of Committee P. As already mentioned, there is a very strict regulation under the Royal Decree of 3 June 2007 on the armament of the integrated police, further developed in the circular letter GPI 62 of 14 February 2008. It clearly states that the authorisation for special weapons is subject to command. For the FN 303, these are orders intended to stop an aggressor immediately, i.e. to overpower a person who wishes to harm himself or a third person, but without killing him or harming him or harming him. At the same time, the weapon should not be used until the personnel concerned have been trained in the use of the weapon. In addition, it is not possible to deal with this at present in the light of the above-mentioned examination by the P Committee. However, my colleague asks me to stress that the circumstances in which the police operate are not always so simple and transparent. The principles of the use of force receive a great deal of attention in every training, over and over again. It is true that every case is different. I would therefore ask you to consider what your reaction would have been if the child concerned could have seriously injured himself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u65	Mr Minister, the least we can say is that we remain a little hungry following your technical response. "For regulation, use, they must be competent people..." That's the minimum! We therefore look forward to the report of Committee P. I will be particularly attentive to it, since I sit on this monitoring committee. I just want to say to you that for years in this Parliament, on behalf of my group and also as chairman of the Committee on the Interior, I have always defended the need for the police to have effective equipment and the fact that they must be protected during their missions, often in a difficult context. We never said otherwise. But this is not what it is today. Mr Minister, I would like to tell you with firm conviction that in this case this is not the case! You don't rob a fourteen-year-old girl with a gun, even called non-lethal. In my democrat soul, that is not possible!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Apparently, we disagree. I interpret the term "shoot away" completely differently, especially in this case. I am addressing the President-in-Office of the Council in particular on this matter. Mr President, you are chairing the parliamentary advisory committee. I urge you to intervene so that this investigation can be completed as soon as possible. We all have an interest in this, because the longer this takes, the more a hint of secrecy arises and the more suspicions there are towards the police. We have heard here the statements of the united Left opposition, which in this way wants to put the police in a bad light. I'm not in on that!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u67	Mr Degroote, I will indeed urge the P Committee to speed up its work and perhaps everyone will agree with that, which should not prevent the thoroughness of the investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u68	And we are not participating in the militarisation of the police. However, Minister, after your answer, we are still hungry. What precise conditions have been imposed for the use of that weapon in Antwerp? For which assignments it may be used and for which it may not be used? This information could have been given more concretely to Parliament. It is a good thing that the P Committee is examining this. I am also looking forward to the report, which I hope will come soon, so that we can look into it and give guidelines. This is not the first time that the P Committee has produced a report on the use, training and so on of the SRT. I believe that this certainly deserves more attention. You say every case is different. I also read that, in the event of incidents in the youth institution in Beernem, the police lay down all the weapons when they are brought in. That's the standard procedure over there, and it'll work. The question is where the lower limit is. Now it's a 14-year-old child. Will this also be done in the case of children 13, 12, 10 and 9 years old? Where is the lower limit for this government?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u69	Minister, you did not reply. In 2009, the Antwerp police were granted permission to use the FN 303 with a certain use case that might be linked to the fight against armed crime and terrorism. I believe that in this case, with the 14-year-old girl in a youth institution, no one will claim that there was a terrorist threat. This is clearly about whether the use of this weapon was legal and correct. You did not answer that question, Minister. Second, is it supposed to have an SRT around suicide? That is what the debate is about today: is it logical for the police to start shooting suicide bombers? Let us be clear, every actor on the ground will agree that this is not the right way and that the use of weapons against suicide is not good; it is better to use other teams, psychomedical rescue teams, to intervene in such dangerous situations. In my opinion, solving youth problems and suicide problems with heavy weapons is not the solution at all, but the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u70	Minister, two months ago, Islamic State announced through the social media that it has already smuggled four thousand fighters into Europe. I quote: "We use the generosity of developed Western countries to infiltrate these countries together with refugees. We will infiltrate Europe under the guise of asylum seekers. It's our dream to expand the caliphate all over the world. Last week in the Netherlands there was the report of the National Counter-Terrorism Coordinator, who writes about this: "Because of the large influx into the Schengen area, it is not possible internationally to identify and screen all persons. This restriction makes it difficult to see the possible presence of jihadists within the refugee chain and the real threat they pose. Jihadist groups intend to use the flow of refugees for the purpose of committing attacks. Following such reports, I have a question for the government. What measures are we currently taking to ensure that IS militias and terrorists do not infiltrate our country through the asylum invasion with the intention to attack here?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u71	I will try to explain once again how screening is carried out. The first possibility is for an asylum seeker to register with DVZ. In this case, fingerprints are taken and checked through the DVZ database, through the international database and the police database. The names of the asylum seekers who are registered will be passed on to the police who double-check them. Then there are three possibilities. First, the person is known and is arrested immediately. Secondly, the person is suspected and being followed. Third, the person is unknown. The names shall then be passed on to the ADIV and the State Security which carry out their control. So both the police and the intelligence services screen people who are registered as candidates for refugee through DVZ in Belgium. I can tell you that no hit on terrorist groups has been recorded so far. If that were the case, an investigation would obviously be launched immediately and the necessary measures would be taken. A second possibility is that an asylum seeker does not report to DVZ. In the meantime, a number of measures have been taken, including checks on entry routes. This concerns axes known as smuggling routes. There is the cooperation agreement between the police, Fedasil and the local structures to communicate and communicate information about suspicious persons. There is training through COPRA for the recognition of radicalisation for all actors and partners in the field. There is also the circular Local Task Force related to the information distribution to all levels of the partners. Experts from both Belgian and international services, including Europol's Dumas expert group, analyse the phenomenon as follows, and I quote from their report: "Although it can never be ruled out, there is no reason to believe that IS would take the risk of sending fighters to Europe via the flow of refugees." Of course, we must remain vigilant at all times and adapt our measures where necessary to counter the influx of potential terrorists.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u72	Minister, I would like to be as naive as you are. Then I might indeed believe that IS does not use the flow of refugees to infiltrate militants and potential terrorists, but of course he does. It is not as naive abroad as it is in our country. I therefore think it is a criminal policy to pay so little attention to possible infiltration. That is why we have today filed a legal complaint against you and your colleague Mr Jambon and Mr Francken, on the basis of Article 115 of the Criminal Code. That article clearly states that those who facilitate entry into the territory of the Empire for the enemies of the State must be punished. We want to protest against the lax, almost non-existent policy on asylum seekers who may have terrorist intentions. IS also announces that he will. It is warned in the Netherlands and other European countries. However, you assume that it will not be as rapid as this. If it cannot be done by reason and by parliamentary means, then it must be done by the way of justice. I hope that justice, however politicised, Minister of Justice, will judge this in a correct and fair manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u73	That concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u74	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents this afternoon, I propose that the draft law amending the provisions of the Rules of Procedure concerning the election and appointment of members of the Supreme Court of Justice (Nos 1343/1 to 5) be entered on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents this morning, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the draft law adapting the provisions of the Judicial Code relating to the election and appointment of members of the Supreme Council of Justice (Nos. 1343/1 to 5). Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u75	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Sonja Becq, Nahima Lanjri, Jef Van den Bergh, Franky Demon, Stefaan Vercamer, Leen Dierick, Griet Smaers, Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Rita Gantois, Jan Spooren
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u76	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Johan Klaps, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be relatively brief, but I would like to reaffirm, as I have already done in committee, the support of the MR Group for this bill. For too long, in our country, self-employed people have been treated differently from wage-earners in areas as diverse as pensions, family allowances or the status of close caregiver. It is with this in mind that yesterday, Sabine Laruelle, Minister Borsus, has acted and will continue to act so that these differences in treatment which cannot be justified can not continue for any longer, so that these discriminations between workers can cease. The issue raised by this bill is in addition to a list of historical distinctions whose raison d'être is difficult to understand. In this case, these are administrative procedures for self-employed persons to obtain adoption leave. The application for adoption leave must now follow a procedure which differs completely unwarrantedly depending on whether the applicant is a wage-earner or a self-employed person. The current regulations provide that, for self-employed persons, the application must be lodged at the earliest on the day of the application to the competent court and no later than the day on which the child is registered in the principal residence of the adopter. There are many practical problems with this procedure. The application for adoption leave will generally be made only when the adoption act is signed, and therefore, when the adopter is sure to be able to adopt his child, which is not yet acquired at the time of the application to the court. It is therefore only between the delivery of the judgment and the registration in the municipality that an independent person can apply for an allowance, which is a very short period of time which causes many harassments for the self-employed. This situation is all the more absurd since the problem does not arise for an employed person. For the latter, it is sufficient to file a written application with the mutual fund by attaching a certificate from the municipality proving that the child is registered in the National Register or in the register of aliens in the municipality of the adopter. It is therefore quite natural that we have made the choice to co-sign this bill, which is firmly part of the government's action to revalue the status of the self-employed, thereby putting an end to a difference in treatment which, as I said at the beginning of my speech, has no reason to be.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u78	Mr President, I would just like to say that we felt it was important to present this proposal. The method of applying for an adoption benefit was different for self-employed persons or for employees and our legislative proposal eliminates that difference in treatment. Some wondered why this arrangement still existed in that way. I would particularly like to thank all those who co-signed the bill, and I would also like to express my thanks for the smooth cooperation, including when it was approved in committee. I hope, therefore, that we will have a speedy approval later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u79	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u80	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (432/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (432/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u81	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u82	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u83	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u84	Mrs Griet Smaers, rapporteur, also refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the commitment of environmentalists to European integration is no longer to be demonstrated. We want a more powerful and integrated Europe that can develop other parts of the market, i.e. social policies and fiscal harmonisation. Nevertheless, we will not vote for this text, which provides for the Union's funding for five years. Our friends in the European Parliament voted against this proposal for a decision. As much as I am, they are convinced Europeans. We will abstain today, as we did in committee, since the decision is already being taken. I would like to briefly recall the reasons that lead us to this choice. They are quantitative and qualitative in nature. In the first place, the restriction and non-increase of the European Union's resources constitute an obvious obstacle to the development of its missions. Austerity policies carried out by many Member States – including Belgium – are demeaning Europe. It is, of course, up to him to make proper use of the means delegated to him by the Member States – and we are very critical of certain European policies, particularly in the field of agriculture – but he needs a minimum of means to direct policies in line with his ambitions and ours. However, they are insufficient. If we then analyse in detail the agreement we need to ratify, we can ask ourselves several questions from a qualitative point of view. Thus, in the pre-negotiations an exception was inserted – which is called a "correction" in the European idiom – for an additional State which will pay an allocation calculated differently from that of the others: Denmark has added itself to the list of many States which do not contribute like the others. By entering into deals of butterflies, we break all supranational logic. And then there is, of course, and this is the main point, the question of the Union's own resources, which are not developed within the framework of this agreement. A status quo in terms of own resources is maintained, while developing European Union own funding is a way of reducing the contribution of each of the states, and perhaps reducing the obstacles and resistance to the construction of the European Union. This would make it possible to build a true European logic, going beyond borders. This can provide more resources and, from a symbolic point of view, build and strengthen the foundations of European integration. You know, Mr Finance Minister, since I am asking you very regularly about the subject, that as the Union's own means of financing, we favour the development of taxation on financial transactions, which is the subject of discussions within the framework of a mechanism for enhanced cooperation between States. We would like all States to join it, but we would especially like it to move forward! This increased cooperation of eleven can be a very interesting basis to extend to all the countries of the Union. In this regard, I can only reiterate to this rostrum my disappointment or disagreement with the systematic responses you provide on the subject. You regularly say that this is included in the government agreement, that we are among those eleven countries that have decided on this enhanced cooperation, that you regularly go to ECOFIN and a working group on the subject. But in your opinion, the decisions made should not have an impact on the functioning of our economy, for example on pension funds. I see the Minister of Pensions is here. In doing so, you are depriving yourself of any means of action. If we add your point of view to that which is defended by other States, in particular France and Germany, which also want to make their own exceptions, we come to an absence of agreement by adding the exceptions requested by the various States. Yet this mechanism is doubly virtuous. On the one hand, it is a question of curbing, preventing the most aggressive and speculative practices of these financial actors, who, when they suffer setbacks, call on the states to guarantee. On the other hand, it is a question of bringing new means from the income of capital to the functioning of our democracies, and in this case of European democracy and construction. That is why we will abstain from this agreement, which has already been implemented. With all the members of the government and even though I have little illusions about the line that is being held by the government and in particular by your party, I would like to call on you to start negotiations for a forthcoming budget agreement now. An agreement which gives the Union more resources on the one hand and strengthens the Union's own financing on the other. This is a necessary condition for European expansion and construction in qualitative terms. This agreement is insufficient and that is why we will not support it, but we urge you to get to work to get a better deal for the next five years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u86	Mr President, I will not prolong the debate, especially since there is no doubt about the final vote. However, on behalf of my group, I repeat what I have had the opportunity to say in committee. This text proposed to us is not entirely insignificant. It concerns the European budget, which is by definition known to be of major political importance. It is this text that determines the level of ambition of the common policies that the European Union wants to implement, as well as the solidarity that the Union can show within it or towards the rest of the world. It is therefore a budget that is at the heart of European political action, much more than all the speeches we can hear about the European Union. It embodies the priorities and policies that Europe wishes to implement. However, we must note that, for the period 2014-2020, the budget allocated is actually less, in terms of means of commitment in any case, than it was in the previous financial framework 2007-2013. A decrease in the budget of EUR 34 billion. Unless I am mistaken, this is the first time in history that the European budget has been reduced. It is in order to contest this reduction which, in our view, reflects a downward revision of European ambitions that the cdH group will abstain from this text. We don't want a budget at the discount. On the contrary, we want a more ambitious budget that will enable the European project to be re-enchanted for the benefit of the 500 million European citizens. Furthermore, we are in favour of a budgetary empowerment of the European Union with a budget that is more funded than it is by own resources, to be less dependent on national contributions, which are known to generate occasional negotiations of carpet merchants who do not, in the eyes of our fellow citizens, strengthen the credit of the European Union. I also call for the Belgian Government to take the opportunity to review this multiannual financial framework in 2017, to move it forward in the direction we recommend, namely, on the one hand, the increase in the Union's own budgetary resources, and, on the other hand, the decrease in the dependence of the European budget on national budgets. I very much hope that Belgium will be able to engage in this budgetary debate in order to give the European Union the resources it needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u87	Mr President, the PTB supports a European project based on social progress, sustainable development, cooperation and solidarity. We want a Europe that puts democratic freedoms and fundamental social rights ahead of liberal market principles, such as the free movement of capital, goods, etc., principles that are dear to the government and the European Union but not to the PTB. The Europe we know is a Europe of austerity with its fiscal pact, its sanctions. We are faced with a Europe that programmes social regression, which prescribes the marketing and privatisation of public enterprises. We are facing a Europe where the single currency and debt have become blackmail tools. We are facing a Europe that creates humanitarian disasters, as we have seen in Greece. And, unfortunately, this country may not be the only one facing this kind of problem. It is a Europe developed by the big multinationals supported by BusinessEurope or the Round Table of European Industrialists. It is a Europe where all essential decisions are taken with little respect for democracy. It is a Europe that is negotiating a totally unacceptable TTIP. Mr President, we do not want this Europe and we will therefore not vote for this budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u88	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u89	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1185/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1185/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u90	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u91	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u92	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u93	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u94	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1356/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1356/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u95	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u96	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Georges Dallemagne, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u97	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1221/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1221/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u98	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u99	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u100	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1247/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1247/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u101	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u102	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u103	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u104	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u105	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1248/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1248/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u106	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u107	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u108	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u109	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u110	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1272/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1272/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u111	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u112	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u113	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u114	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u115	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1290/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1290/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u116	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u117	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs An Capoen, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u118	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1299/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1299/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u119	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u120	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Sarah Claerhout, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u121	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1303/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1303/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u122	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u123	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Rita Bellens, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u124	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1304/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1304/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u125	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u126	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u127	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u128	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u129	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1305/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1305/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u130	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u131	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u132	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u133	Mr President, I will not repeat here the debate we have had in committee. Nevertheless, I will try to call the government and the majority to reason. Indeed, it seems problematic to ratify this type of agreement with a country such as Panama, when it is known that Panama is considered a tax haven with more than 350,000 offshore companies, placing it at the third largest in the world. Thus, this agreement will, inter alia, allow companies to benefit systematically from a 100% exemption from income tax throughout the period of activity. On the basis of these elements, questions arise in terms of the coherence of our development cooperation policies. We cannot, on the one hand, ensure that our cooperation partners can finance development cooperation, in particular from their own resources and hence also from the tax resources of these countries, and, on the other hand, sign such types of agreements that exempt companies from paying taxes and having real taxes on income. I therefore appeal to the common sense of this majority to simply reject this treaty, which does not respect the most basic standards in terms of social, environmental and fiscal standards, and which also raises serious questions in terms of human rights. I did it in committee. This was not followed by any effect. The majority had the holiday period to think about it. Perhaps it has been used wisely. In any case, I would ask you to pay attention at the time of voting on this draft, because this agreement does not respect the most fundamental rights. I hope you take that into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u134	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, like Mrs Grovonius, I am not going to resume all the debates that have taken place in committee. I just want to reiterate our commitment to this type of agreement. We feel that, with regard to social rights, environmental rights, tax rights, it is much better to make progress through agreements. It is better to try to carry the vision, which is also that of the European Union, capable of advancing the situation of people, of people, in countries where there is no great tradition of respect for social rights. The majority, and in any case my political party, support the Foreign Minister's action in this area because we feel that it is a bit of a good soul to stay on European soil and say that it is horrible to negotiate with countries where social and trade union rights are not respected. It is finally a fairly easy position, it is to have the "posterior in butter" to say that we must not try, through agreements, to improve the situation of the populations on the spot. It is in this sense that we support the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u135	Mr Miller, you know that our group is generally quite constructive in relation to the principles you set out, which are to try to be inclusive in a whole series of treaties. We will vote against this treaty for various reasons. Firstly, because this type of agreement is now within the competence of the European Union and not of Belgium. It's a relic of the past. Moreover, this is not necessary today, especially since we have just signed a wider association agreement with all the countries of Central America, and therefore Panama. This Treaty does not add value to the criteria you have just set out. On the other hand, it is true that he is in retreat from principles to which I thought the MR was attached after hearing Mr. Louis Michel on the radio a few months ago about TTIP. There is a private arbitration mechanism here. However, I understood that you were opposed to this type of mechanism. That is one of the reasons why we will also oppose this treaty. Finally, environmental and social clauses are virtually absent from this Treaty. They are far below what they used to be in all the BLEU agreements that have been signed since the 2000s. As I recall, it was the same Liberal minister who, at the time, had negotiated much better and better environmental and social clauses – although they could have been improved – than those of this treaty. We will therefore vote against this treaty, against this trade agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u136	Mr President, Mr Miller, the question is who will benefit from such an agreement. Panama is indeed a tax haven. This year, we could still read in the newspaper Le Monde: "The vitality of this tax haven is based on worrying foundations: speculation, corruption and money laundering." In 2013, the PTB had published a study on the great fortunes present in Panama. This had been an exercise joined by the press shortly after. It was noted that all the great Belgian fortunes (of Spoelberch, Brother, Emsens, Bekaert, Saverys, Paquot, Forrest and others) had companies in Panama to take advantage of this tax haven. The press had cited this example of a company of Albert Frère who had sold works of art, including Rembrandt, via an offshore company in Panama. Alongside this status as a tax haven, there is also the status of multinationals' paradise and social hell. Indeed, the condition of workers, among others those working on the expansion of the Panama Canal, is really problematic. In recent years, laws against the right to strike have been adopted. The major multinationals working on the canal, including Belgian groups such as Nul or Ackermans & van Haaren, had been pointed out on that occasion. The content of the agreement is therefore worrying. As colleagues have said, there is nothing binding on social standards, such as the right to strike that is not respected in this country, or on environmental standards. This is particularly worrying. There is also the issue of arbitration clauses. A recent example shows the danger of such an agreement. I am thinking in particular of this gold mine project in Spain where 17 million contaminated waste was to be disposed of. There has been a great mobilization of the population. Finally, the regional government refused to accept this pollution. But the Canadian company that initiated this project initiated an arbitration procedure on the basis of the same agreement. This arbitration process sees the claim of US$35 million. It was because Spain had signed such an agreement with Panama that a Canadian company was able to activate its Panama subsidiary to claim the $35 million. It's an inquisitive thing! Without wanting to provoke the MR group, I have a concern in terms of conflict of interest when I find that this project is essentially supported by dredging companies such as Ackermans & van Haaren whose boss, Luc Bertrand is the father of Didier Reynders' chief of staff. I have no evidence of a direct connection between the two, but we can't help but ask ourselves the question. Why is such an eagerness to advance such projects while Minister Reynders' Chief of Staff is also the administrator of the Ackermans & van Haaren Group? A foreign minister might be concerned about the fate of a tortured Moroccan Belgo in Morocco – but he cares little about it. He cares about the economic interests of Belgian multinational companies, including that of his chief of staff, by going so far as to organize a meeting at the Embassy in Panama with the two Belgian dredgers in order to settle their conflict. I do not know whether it is the role of a foreign minister to do so in the hands of certain multinationals to which he is close.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u137	Mr President, you will understand that our group cannot allow such comments to be made. These are smoke-based attacks at the PTB's study centre. These attacks target people who are not present. If this door is opened in the assembly, any speech will be a personal attack and it is not acceptable! I can discuss many issues – whether political or economic – with Mr. Van Hees, but I refuse these attacks. Everyone knows that if the majority wants to vote on this bill, it is also because of the economic interests of Belgium and our companies. Of course, it doesn't help Mr. Van Hees that our companies are doing well; he prefers them to be in trouble. Mr President, I will ask my Group leader Mr Ducrame to raise this issue at the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u138	Mr Miller, I did not intend to speak because we have already debated a great deal in committee. However, I would like to make two points. First, we will ratify a mutual investment protection agreement with a country where the right to strike does not exist. This fact has been denounced by the International Labour Organization. Of course, we must be able to protect the investments of our companies, but it is unique to do so with a country where one of the fundamental labour rights, the right to strike, is not respected. Secondly, the Treaty aims to protect investment. It is understood that two Antwerp companies are particularly interested in the Panama Canal. Can you quote me, Mr Miller, from Panamanian companies that would like their investments in Belgium to be protected, since this is a question of reciprocity? I don't think so. This shows that this type of agreement is particularly unbalanced and is systematically concluded in favour of the developed countries, of which we are part. What we are demanding is that, if you sincerely want the economic development of these countries, you should conclude agreements on an equal and not unequal basis, which is the case with this treaty.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u139	As I have often said about criticism of Europeans who sign agreements with the United States or other countries, the former are often presented by MM. Hellings, Van Hees et al., like people negotiating against their camp. I do not know the Panamanians, but I do not have the feeling that they necessarily negotiate against their businesses. I don't think so, though, a little bit. Mr Hellings, you may not have heard the beginning of my speech. Besides, I don't blame you. I was anticipating what you said. According to my group, it is better to negotiate agreements and carry them to countries where social rights – you are right when you talked about the right to strike in Panama – are not enough. Indeed, we feel that it is through such agreements that the partners can be made to respect the people, their social, environmental obligations, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u140	Mr Miller, allow me to say respectfully that we differ on this point. Our companies invest in Panama because they give themselves a competitive advantage, this type of country does not respect social rights. If that were not the case, they would not go there. Investment is less expensive because social rights are not respected. This is why it is so important for these two Belgian companies to have an agreement that values and protects their investments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u141	We see the difference in points of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u142	Mr. Miller, I see the facts. I note that we are rushing to bring to the House an agreement that clearly benefits two Belgian multinationals who have links – you cannot deny this – with the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I note that the implementation of this agreement will be at the expense of Panamanian workers who have already waged struggles, organised strikes against the various companies working on the canal, including Belgian companies. Since then, however, a law has been passed in that country to prohibit and break strikes. That is the reality! In doing so, we would be entitled to wait for the lessons of the past to be learned and for the agreement to be reached to ensure respect for social rights, including the right to strike. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u143	Mr Van Hees, of course you have the right to have your opinions, but there must be no charge. In this regard, caution must be exercised.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u144	Mr President, this is not a charge. That's a finding. I note, in any case, that a person who is the administrator of one of the groups that directly benefits from this agreement is also the head of a minister's office. This is a political reality that cannot be denied. While abusive deductions are not a circumstance, the facts are worrying and intriguing. And I wonder if it would not be appropriate to think about a way to avoid certain potential conflicts of interest. The concept of conflict of interest exists in our legislation. I ask this question because I am concerned about the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u145	Mr President, although my group is in opposition, I consider the intervention of my colleague from the PTB to be unacceptable. We must not amalgamate Untel's daughter, etc. Even if I am going to oppose this trade agreement for the reasons I have mentioned, it is totally unacceptable. We're in a small country. Everyone has the right to perform functions. There is no question here of an agreement that would have been accelerated, since it dates back to 2009. I cannot accept this kind of amalgam, even if I oppose this agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u146	Mr President, on behalf of my group, I would like to thank Mr Dallemagne and his group. Compared to Mr. Van Hees, I can only see one thing. He tells us that the Panamanian people have already waged a lot of fighting, tried to obtain social rights etc. I fully respect this and feel very much in solidarity with these struggles. The reality, Mr Van Hees, is that you can talk about this kind of fighting in our House, the Belgian Parliament, but that will not lead to anything. We have the weakness to believe that, when there is an agreement that engages Belgium with a country like Panama, Parliament's control over government action then takes on another dimension. Through an agreement like this, Belgium also becomes responsible for what is happening, for the implementation of this agreement. I repeat our will, our hope that through this type of bill, gradually, the Belgian vision – sometimes I talked about the European vision but now I can talk about the Belgian vision – of the principles of social law will also be able to apply more to Panama. That is why, I repeat, the MR is voting on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u147	Mr President, I do not wish to repeat what I said in committee. It is broadly in line with what Mr Hellings said. However, a new fact has arisen between the debate in committee and the debate here today. Fourteen days ago, the OECD published a list of countries that participate or do not participate in the automatic exchange of tax information. A number of countries were blacklisted by the OECD, including the Cook Islands, Nauru and Vanuatu. Those are three illustrious tax havens. You can guess which country is still on it: Panama. The reason why people hesitated to sign this agreement from 2009 had to do with the tax unreliable nature of that country. If you know a bit about the political history of our country, you know that we were in the government at certain times. I regret to note that the current majority has no problem with this. With even more conviction than 14 days ago, when we debated this in committee and this information was still unknown to us, we will vote against it. I would like to emphasise once again how disappointed I am by this majority because it does not agree with an internationally agreed approach to tax fraud. The cornerstone of this policy is the automatic exchange of information, on which this country, Panama, does not give home.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u148	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Dallemagne rightly pointed out, this agreement is the result of a negotiation which ended in 2009. The words of Mr. Van Hees are perfectly reprehensible. I dare say that they do not surprise me in view of the way in which this party generally distances itself from the democratic field. As far as the substance of the project is concerned, I would like to point out that it is a matter of protecting the investment of Belgian companies in Panama. That is the scope of the treaty. This is not an agreement that deals with all kinds of matters. The purpose of this agreement is to protect the investments of Belgian companies, particularly those working to expand the Panama Canal, which will benefit an entire region and subregion of Latin America as well as international trade. In this context, we decide to further protect the investment of Belgian companies. This is the exact scope of this agreement between Belgium and Panama, no more or less.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u149	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u150	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1308/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1308/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u151	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u152	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u153	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u154	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u155	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1347/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1347/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u156	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u157	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Vandenput, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u158	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1348/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1348/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u159	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u160	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Fabienne Winckel, Özlem Özen, Paul-Olivier Delannois, Karine Lalieux The Committee for Business, Science Policy, Education, the National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture proposes to reject this bill. (702/2) The Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture proposes to reject this bill. (702/2) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament expressed its views on this proposal for rejection, after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. The rapporteurs, Ms Jadin and Mr Wollants, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u161	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, "We ask Parliament, the majority and the opposition, to legislate in order to put order in the area of debt collection": these words, I had to express them myself on numerous occasions in committee, but they were also held last Sunday by a representative of the National Chamber of Judicial Officers on the set of the show "Les Décodeurs". His message was clear, clear and unambiguous. In addition, this message was relayed again this morning in the press. We are therefore faced with a unanimous request from all the players in the sector, be it debt mediators, the consumer protection association, collecting companies and, now, judicial officers. This unanimous request aims to clarify, once and for all, the amicable recovery of debts and to put an end to the impunity of a minority of indelicate bailiffs, who are literally on the backs of citizens. That's an unquestionable fact. Even the representative of the National Chamber of Judicial Officers has publicly acknowledged that there are manifest abuses and that the current law is not enough to put an end to them. So yes, any debt must be paid and the amicable recovery must be privileged. I think there is a postulate on which we can all agree. Yes, the judicial officer has an obligation to look after the interests of both parties, both the creditor and the debtor! Yes, the judicial officer is independent in matters of amicable recovery and he does not have to take a position on either side! He's a mediator. Yes, it is not acceptable to see an initial debt multiplied by three, four, or even ten in some cases! Yes, the underlying contracts must be framed to put an end to abusive clauses and the undeniable disproportion between an initial debt and penalty clauses! And again yes, the principle no cure, no pay that binds the judicial officer to an obligation of result contravenes the independence of the bailiff and is therefore an illegal system that should be removed without delay!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u162	Mr President, since I will not have the opportunity to go up to the rostrum, I would like to say how much my group and myself support the ongoing reflection here. As you said, there is indeed a need to clarify things. Since it is not possible to speak, Mrs Winckel, I wanted to cut you off so that I could officially say so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u163	Mr Nollet, thank you. Mrs Jadin, there have been some developments. A representative of the National Chamber of Judicial Officers came out saying that he was asking for an amendment to the law. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Winckel has the floor. You're gonna deconcentrate her. It's very bad! Mrs Winckel, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u165	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues, let us listen to the sector, including the National Chamber of Judicial Officers, which is explicitly asking for an amendment to the law. Let us respond to this unanimous call to work together in the general interest in order to find a concrete and fairer solution to a problem known and recognized by all. This is a unanimous appeal. It is rare enough that to be stressed here in plenary session. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to reconsider your vote and agree to work on this bill again, rather than simply rejecting it, as you did two weeks ago. I propose that you refer the bill amending the law of 20 December 2002 on the amicable recovery of consumer debts with a view to combating abuses in the Committee on the Economy and I ask you to take this decision so that we can work this text together. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, we have the opportunity to work in good intelligence on a text that can actually – I am firmly convinced – move things forward. Don't let this opportunity pass! The citizens would not understand it and especially after the public appeal launched by the judicial officers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u166	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not go back to our vote in committee, even though I will repeat certain points. We had the opportunity to explain to the authors of this proposal that we shared their findings. That is why we had submitted others whose objective was to improve the functioning of the justice system, in particular from the perspective of the status of bailiffs. It is well known that some of them commit abuses. Moreover, their colleagues recognize him and want them to be punished by their Order. The hearings we have organised have thus made it possible to record the shortcomings of the legislation in force. There is unanimity as to the desirability of reforming what may be so with a view to striking a fair balance between consumer protection and the creditor's legitimate right to enforce his obligation for obvious security reasons. As we have had the opportunity to express it in committee, this text seems to us to be guided by a philosophy which aims to disproportionately increase the burden on SMEs wishing to recover their debts. This is evidenced, inter alia, by the provision that creditors should systematically submit the supporting documents as an annex to their reminders. The use of electronic reminders by e-mail and e-mails is also hampered by a lack of legal framework. The bailiffs have recently reformed their disciplinary body. Their independence has increased. In addition, sanctions are now heavier, since they can be removed from their functions. While this should not prevent us from reforming the provisions of the 2002 Act, it does not seem to us that this text adequately addresses these shortcomings for the reasons I have explained. During the vote on this text in committee, no other formation, Mr Nollet, considered it appropriate to support your text. Yes, I think we will come back with our proposals on this subject, perhaps in the near future. And why not include in it the proposals you have just made in order to arrive at a text that will hopefully lead to a wider consensus.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u167	Mr President, Mrs Jadin referred earlier to my group which abstained in committee. Indeed, there were fairly technical dimensions in the file that required a little more work in depth. In the meantime, we have re-examined the file. I wanted to speak earlier to say how important it seemed to us that, on this issue, the request to refer this text back to committee seems to me to be the best position. You have heard, like me, the recent developments that are changing the positions of outside actors and that allow us to say today that we want these texts to be reworked in committee rather than swept away as you propose.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u168	Mr President, I think Mrs Jadin is quite honest and reasonable when she says that this is an important subject for her. So I'm taking it for cash. However, while this subject is indeed important, the situation of over-indebted citizens who are still much more burdened with the bailiffs is a profound challenge to us. Why therefore refuse to consider this dossier a priority? The best way to consider it as a priority is to refer it directly to the committee and that everyone works, from all political groups, around the proposal put forward to improve it. Don't say it's important if you don't accept the priority review.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u169	Mrs Onkelinx, I said that the text that you have tabled - Mrs Winckel knows this because it is exactly the same arguments that we have used in committee - does not suit us for various reasons. We have therefore rejected it. On the substance, we will deepen our thinking and probably come ourselves with proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall be voting on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u171	Mr President, an amendment would have to be tabled to change the name, perhaps the text would pass! We have been working on this text for more than a year. There have been hearings, serious work has been done. What is happening is sad and distressing! I do not understand why this text cannot be referred back to committee. For the moment, some judicial officers are using practices that depart from the rule of law, it is not tolerable. We must not have political policies in this area, it is time to act and we must not wait!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u172	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u173	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Georges Dallemagne, Olivier Maingain, Vanessa Matz, Michel de Lamotte The Committee on External Relations proposes that this motion for a resolution be rejected. (1043/7) The Committee on External Relations proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (1043/7) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament expressed its views on this proposal for rejection, after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. The rapporteur is Mrs Capoen. It shall refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u174	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall speak about my bench. I'll be brief. We have already had the opportunity to speak in committee on this serious and important subject. I propose, in accordance with Rule 88, to reject this rejection proposal, since it is a matter of repairing an extremely serious omission. In reality, through the rejection of this proposal, it is a matter of refusing to recognize the genocide of the Arameans and the Pontic Greeks following the Armenian genocide. This event took place at about the same time, in the weeks and months following the Armenian genocide. It's an extremely serious oversight. You know that it is always very important to properly describe crimes against humanity, to recognize the nature of these crimes, because otherwise, people who have been victims of them are hurt twice. I propose that you reject this rejection and return to committee in order to be able to vote on this important text. In Belgium, there are Aramean, Syriac and Chaldean communities that are very much interested in Belgium's recognition of this genocide. Some say that this discussion has already taken place when we adopted the resolution on the commemoration of the Armenian genocide last July. I would like to remind them that, in fact, at that time, several members of the majority, including the MR, had shown their interest in this subject, but had asked that the discussion be dissociated and that the discussion on the genocide of the Arameans not be discussed at that time. We then agreed to dissociate this discussion. Finally, when we wanted to come back with this discussion in committee, we were told that it had already taken place, which seemed quite shocking to us since it had been refused in July. We therefore ask you to reject this rejection proposed by the committee and to come back to committee so that we can reach a positive vote on the recognition of the genocide of the Arameans and the Pontic Greeks by the Ottoman regime in 1915.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u175	Mr President, we know how delicate this debate is for some parties. I am aware of the caution that the legislative authority must have when dealing with history issues. When we voted on the resolution on the recognition of the Armenian genocide, reservations had already been expressed by each other. I also know how cautious the case law of the European Court of Human Rights is. But I think there are times when we must have the audacity to force these essential debates. We'll always find some legal arguments. There may even be some historians who do not like to address questions of principle, without wanting to minimize them, to justify that we cannot deal in a legislative assembly with this essential point of history. Why should the recognition of the genocide of the Armenians of Turkey be extended to other minorities that have been scientifically established to have also been victims of the genocide organized by the Youth-Turkish regime? Because today, in the Middle East, the same minorities are again exposed to threats. A reminder of history is not just a duty of memory. It is also and above all an emergency of the moment in the light of developments which recall the past and which are unbearable. I know that some people are hesitant, that there are intellectual reserves. But at some point it is imperative not to accept the repetition of events of the same magnitude, as is the case today in several States in the Middle East. These are the reasons why our joint approach with Mr. Dallemagne is more indispensable than ever.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u176	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not use argutia. I will simply repeat our position. Unlike many, the parties that make up the majority have recognized the Armenian genocide. However, this is not a negligible achievement. Unlike all those who said that one day there would be a need for historical recognition, a memorial or something else, we did! The remarks made by Prime Minister Charles Michel on this subject are clear. Just read them again! He refers to all the events that took place in 1915 and 1916 in this region of the world. It is already an important element. I take back what Mr. Maingain just said. There is an imperative not to accept repetition. We do not have the weakness to believe that it is by historically recognizing facts that we will be able to help people who today face the same dangers, risks and threats. The priority for our government is to try to help these people as best they can. I would even say that by trying to put a pen on his hat, people who live there in terrible situations are being made even more difficult. That is why we consider the case closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u177	Mr President, to hear from Mr Miller, who is still a man who, intellectually, has a sense of nuance, that the case is closed,...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u178	I said that this file was closed for us (...) I did not say that the file was closed in itself (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u179	Wait, I'm not done! But it is even more serious if the case is closed for this majority! That is what is most regrettable, it is that you do not even have the will to debate it! The most mediocre argument is to say: "To dare to speak of it would perhaps even harm those who try to defend these populations". This is the beginning of what I call the Clercs' Trail (Julien Benda), for those who have the sense of a reminder of history. This is the beginning of the treason of the clerics: do not dare talk about a subject because one fears the reprisals of those who would be able to repeat the worst atrocities in history, it is the beginning of abandonment and even some form of cowardice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u180	We couldn't say better than Mr. Maingain. It is of course a matter for us, Belgians and Europeans, to describe precisely the crimes against humanity and the crimes of genocide that have been committed so that, precisely today, we can better deal with them, prevent them and prevent them. That is what is at the heart of this resolution. That is why it is important today, because it is the same people who are being harassed today and whose right to protection is eventually denied and who are also not allowed to recognize the crimes they are currently facing. And so, of course, crimes must be properly qualified, in particular the crimes of the past, in order to be able to deal adequately with those of today and to be able to combat them adequately. And no, you have not explicitly, Mr Miller, through your resolution on the commemoration of the genocide, nor have you formally and explicitly recognised the Armenian genocide, let alone the Aramaic genocide! No, Mr Miller, because our amendments which made it possible to clarify a precise recognition, you rejected them! Our amendments, which made it possible at this time to recognise and extend this genocide to the Aramaeans, you rejected them. And you said, Mr. Ducrame (plenary session of 22 July): "We could have discussed other amendments in order to extend this recognition to Assyrians and other communities. If, in the future, we can address this issue at this stage, it would complicate things." You can see that the subject was not closed. Today, you close it without any discussion, without wanting to address the issue when you are well aware that it is important to recognize this serious crime against humanity, this crime of genocide. And Mr Flahaux, who is present today, - he will not tell me the opposite - insisted in committee on 7 July that the question of these other minorities be examined on another occasion. "He insisted," Mr. Miller. And today you deny him the right to have this debate by saying that this issue is closed. I find it quite shocking.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u181	The facts are Belgium's recognition of genocide. I would like to reiterate what has just been said by Richard Miller. We did. We did. It makes you laugh, but you stayed in the verb. You were small and then come and give lessons. We, the recognition, did it. Mr. Maingain, though! Poor, cowardly. But finally, we did. We did. And you are coming back today with a proposal that was presented during the summer in the form of an amendment, amendments that were rejected. You are reopening a debate that has already taken place to get you started. Well, no, we will have to settle for what has been produced by this majority, for what has been produced by this government here in the House, expressed as such by our Prime Minister, which you have failed to do. In relation to this inability to act, this is perhaps where true cowardice, true mediocrity, Mr. Maingain, is.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u182	Mr President, since I was questioned by Mr Dallemagne, I would like to clarify things with great humility. As MP MR and also as a historian, I believe that the history of the world is unfortunately marked by a multitude of genocides. Without going back to Mathusalem, we will probably remember the massacre of the Saxons by Charlemagne, the massacre of the Boers by the English, and the massacres we are now talking about, which are still bad examples. Among them, the one that hit us the most in the 1970s-80s is the fact that a quarter of Cambodia's population was massacred by the Khmer Rouge. I believe that any massacre must be denounced and, most importantly, must be the trigger for avoiding further massacres. Here, I do not hide that we, together with our group leader, have spoken these words. They're not fake. In my candour, however, I did not imagine that some would use Mr Dallemagne's proposed enlargement as a war machine to divide the majority again. I refuse to go into this logic. The subject is worth more than a Belgian-Belgian political quarrel. It is in this sense that I do not support this proposal even though I share it in substance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u183	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Mr Flahaux for his honesty. I find it healthy that he acknowledges that an opening had been made at a certain time and that it has been closed in the meantime. I did not know that there were any differences among the majority on this matter. It wasn't for me to raise them. The reason why it is important for a text on other genocides to be voted on this year is that we are living in a symbolic year as this genocide was perpetrated in the Ottoman Empire in 1915. If we don't do it this year, the discussion may be over forever, Mr. Miller. That's where the risk lies. This year was one of the last opportunities to have this discussion and to obtain this recognition, on the occasion of the centenary of the Armenian genocide. Indeed, this phenomenon must be taken up in its entirety. It was therefore necessary to repair this omission. I sincerely regret that we have not been able to succeed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u184	Mr President, I will be brief because I agree with my group leader. Since I am called intellectual, intellectual, or even cleric – remembering me, in a unfriendly way, and even if it was wrong and unwelcome, La Trahison des clercs – I would like to be very precise. I want to be a clear cleric – anyway, it's connected. Mr Dallemagne, I will recall what I said earlier. When the Prime Minister, on behalf of the Belgian government, recognized the Armenian genocide, he acknowledged all the events that took place in 1915-1916. So you can sneeze. We believe that this government has made a strong gesture. I now add, since my commitment to this issue is a little challenged, that I do not share at all the sentiments developed by Mr. Maingain or Mr. Dallemagne. They say: "You know, when we dare to add a line relating to the recognition of the events of that time, we will at least have been humanists, we will have done something, we will fight against the frightening problems still experienced today by the same people on the same territories." I said that for this majority, the case was closed, because what matters today is to act for these people, and that is what we intend to do! Mr Dallemagne, I know you're still going to say that I'm going up the towers, but no. Rather, I feel that by constantly trying to put a pen on his hat, we are finally acting against the people today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u185	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u186	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Christian Brotcorne and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, refer to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u187	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1343/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1343/5) The draft law has 6 articles. The bill has six articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u188	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u189	The next item is the vote on the appointment of two Dutch-speaking male alternate members and one French-speaking male alternate member of the Executive Board of the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities and the fight against discrimination and racism. The next item is the election for the appointment of two Dutch-speaking male alternate members and one French-speaking male alternate member of the Board of Directors of the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities and the Fight against Racism and Discrimination. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 16 October 2015. Nominations were announced in plenary on 16 October 2015. The document containing the names of the candidates has been distributed (Doc. 1441/1). The document bearing the names of the candidates has been circulated to you (No. 1441/1). We shall first appoint Mr Yves Aerts (N) and Mr Louis-Léon Christians (F). We shall first appoint the alternate of Mr Yves Aerts (N) and the alternate of Mr Louis-Léon Christians (F). Since the result of the vote for Mr Yves Aerts (N) alternate will affect the choice of Mr Jogchum Vrielink's alternate, the vote for the latter will take place afterwards. Since the result of the ballot for Mr Yves Aerts (N)'s deputy will influence the choice of Mr Jogchum Vrielink's alternate, the ballot for him will then take place. The ballots have already been distributed. Ballot papers have already been distributed. As the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. First we have to put together one or two desks of voters by drawing lots. Each bureau shall be composed of four members. I propose, however, that the last two Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today should be nominated for the vote. We must first draw lots from one or two offices of deputy returning officers, each composed of four members, who will be responsible for the counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members to the bureau this day to take the ballots. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Ladies Nawal Ben Hamou and Yoleen Van Camp are appointed to record the votes. Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou and Ms. Yoleen Van Camp were appointed to vote. I suggest that the ballots be counted in the conference room, in the presence of the voters. I propose that you proceed to the counting of the ballots in the Conference Hall, in the presence of the deputy returning officers. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I ask every Member to place his unsigned ballots in the ballot boxes when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. Upon the call of his or her name, each member is requested to submit his or her unsigned ballots in the ballot boxes, going up to the rostrum from my left to my right. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u190	Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballots in the ballot box? The vote is closed. I declare the ballot closed. Ladies and gentlemen, since this round of voting affects the second round, I am now obliged to suspend the sitting for five minutes. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u191	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u192	Stemmen 136 Voters Blanco of ongeldig 6 White or invalid Valid 130 Valables Perfect majority 66 Absolute majority Mr Charles-Eric Classe received 11 votes. Mr. Charles-Eric Clesse won 11 votes. Mr Xavier Martin received 0 votes. Mr Xavier Martin won 0 votes. Mr Daniel Soudant received 119 votes. Mr Daniel Sudant won 119 votes. Mr Victor Yangandi received 0 votes. Mr. Victor Yangandi won 0 votes. Mr Daniel Soudant, who was given the absolute majority, was appointed alternate to Mr Louis-Léon Christians. Mr Daniel Sudant, having obtained an absolute majority, was declared an alternate to Mr Louis-Léon Christians.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u193	Stemmen 136 Voters Blanco of ongeldig 9 White or invalid Valid 127 Valables Perfect majority 64 Absolute majority Mr David Baele received 0 votes. Mr. David Baele won 0 votes. Mr Selahattin Kocak received 13 votes. Mr. Selahattin Kocak obtained 13 votes. Mr Jan Theunis received 114 votes. Mr Jan Theunis won 114 votes. Mr Jan Theunis, who was given the absolute majority, was appointed alternate to Mr Yves Aerts. Mr Jan Theunis, having obtained an absolute majority, was declared an alternate for Mr Yves Aerts. We must now proceed with the appointment of Mr Jogchum Vrielink's alternate. Now we have to make the appointment of Mr. Jogchum Vrielink's alternate. The ballots have already been distributed. Ballot papers have already been distributed. I would ask every Member to place his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. Upon the call of his or her name, each member is requested to submit his or her unsigned ballot in the ballot box, going up to the rostrum from my left to my right. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u194	Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballots in the ballot box? The vote is closed. I declare the ballot closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u195	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u196	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the National Defence Commission on October 28, 2015. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Defence Commission of 28 October 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 071/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Julie Fernandez Fernandez and by Messrs. Stéphane Crusnière, Willy Demeyer and Sébastian Pirlot; - a simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Peter Buysrogge, Tim Vandenput et Veli Yüksel. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 071/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Ms Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Mr Stéphane Crusnière, Mr Willy Demeyer and Mr Sébastian Pirlot; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Peter Buysrogge, Mr Tim Vandenput and Mr Veli Yüksel. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u197	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this motion follows information brought to my attention on 8 October by the workers of the CPAS in Liège. I would like to address the matter because I believe it concerns the whole of the territory. According to this information, our Minister of Defence decided to make available military infrastructure as part of the Great Colds Plan for the first time. Colleagues, this is a decision that marks a sharp break in the army's ambition to be at the service of the population. It is a landmark decision that puts an end to the solidarity of the army as a citizen actor in its own right. What shockes us is not so much the amount claimed as the fact that we are not dealing with a military decision, but with a political one. We fear that tomorrow the army will charge the communes, even the victims, for aid in the event of flooding, disaster or rescue at sea. So it's not about politics fiction. The government agreement provides that "if assistance to the Nation entails additional costs to the Defence, they will be billed". In this context, my political group would like to strongly recall that when Defence does not use its personnel, equipment or infrastructure for its international missions or training, it must put them to the maximum and free service of the civilian authorities. That is the meaning of the motion that was tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u198	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u199	Yes 79 Yes No. 61 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u200	These inquiries were developed in a public meeting of the Finance and Budget Committee on 28 October 2015. These interviews were held at the public meeting of the Finance and Budget Commission of 28 October 2015. Five motions were tabled (MOT No. 073/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Georges Gilkinet; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Ahmed Laaouej and Ms. Karin Temmerman; - a third motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Karin Temmerman and Mr Ahmed Laaouej; - a fourth motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Benoît Dispa; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Carina Van Cauter, Mrs Veerle Wouters and Mr Messrs. Gautier Calomne, Roel Deseyn, Benoît Piedboeuf and Vincent Scourneau. Five motions were tabled (MOT No. 073/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Georges Gilkinet; - a second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Ahmed Laaouej and Mrs Karin Temmerman; - a third motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Karin Temmerman and Mr Ahmed Laaouej; - a fourth motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Benoît Dispa; A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Carina Van Cauter and Mr Veerle Wouters and by Mr Gautier Calomne, Mr Roel Deseyn, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf and Mr Vincent Scourneau. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u201	Mr President, I would like to say a few words as an introduction to the motion that I have tabled. I will be brief, since we will have to go into the budget in the Finance Committee. We will not fail to share with you a number of comments. Why this motion? This motion follows the chaotic communication – it is an euphemism – that the government is inconsistent with its budget and tax reform. We welcomed the frankness of the Budget Minister when she explained that at least 2 billion euros were missing in the financing of the tax reform. [[Applause]] We therefore welcomed his frankness, but deplored and denounced the government's irresponsibility. How can we pretend to do a tax reform that we are not able to finance? This is a real problem of irresponsibility, but above all of mystification towards public opinion and parliament. You have three problems and you know that. As early as July, you were already short of $1.7 billion for your budget. Then, between July and October, you realized that you did not have enough funding for your alleged promise to ensure a tax reduction of 100 euros per month for the majority of workers. The result of the races: between July and October, you added 1.1 billion unfunded. The third problem is a drastic reduction in tax revenues in VAT, in advance payments that already reflect the negative effect of your policy on the confidence of economic agents, businesses and households. Mr President, we will have the opportunity to deepen this, but that is why we are tabling a motion – I am obviously not going to read it in extenso – which calls for serious monitoring by the Court of Auditors. Mr President, I would like us to have a debate on the budget after we have read the Court of Auditors' report. We must be able to organise ourselves at the level of work. It seems to me that this is a legitimate request. It is, of course, never too late. The government can take responsibility and review its copy. We could only then welcome, beyond Mrs Wilmès' frankness, perhaps the sense of responsibility that has been found. I am not delusional, but we will ensure that we strongly encourage you to do so in the course of the budgetary debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u202	Mr President, of course I fully agree with Mr Laaouej. However, I would like to add a few words. Firstly, we have a Minister for the Budget who is honest and who at some point states: 'The tax shift has not yet been fully financed'. This isn't a secret. We're short at least two billion." Secondly, the chairman of the Finance Committee is also honest. He points out that 100 euros of extra wages are priceless and that the government is counting on it. He also stated that even if Mrs Wilmès said that EUR 2 billion was missing, he personally believed that there was even more missing and that we could speak of EUR 3 billion. I say bravo for the two politicians who are honest. Thirdly, my fellow Members, Eurostat also warns that if the current government continues in the same way, there will be a deficit in 2018 and that the government cannot finance the tax shift. In 2018, there would be a shortage of x number of billion. (...): 2.1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u203	A deficit of 2.1 %. According to others, the deficit will be much greater. Nevertheless, our Minister for Finance keeps repeating that there is no problem. He says he can only establish that the tax shift is fully funded until the end of 2018 and he adds that there is no gap in the tax shift but in the budget. Colleagues, if there is a gap in the tax shift, there is also a gap in the budget. This is literally stated in the notifications of 28 August, from which I read out the following passage: "Firstly, the second package of the tax shift is being implemented, the state of the budget and the implementation of structural reforms will be monitored. In other words, if there is a problem with the tax shift, there is also a problem with the budget. Mr Minister, through our motion we are asking for precise figures. After all, you do nothing but lie to the people. The index jump will be reduced, VAT on electricity will be increased, excise duties will be increased and a sugar tax will be introduced, including for products that do not contain sugar. In other words, the population must save in purchasing power. But, there's 100 euros added... Ladies and gentlemen, EUR 100 has clearly not been financed. In short, Mr President, we are asking for precise figures. We look forward with great interest to the budget books that are likely to come in tomorrow. Today we understand why we did not receive them on 15 October. The government was not ready by then and already knew that there was a very large deficit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that, according to the Rules of Procedure, explanations of vote last up to two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say two things. First of all, Parliament should actually demand that Mr Van Overtveldt be here. Mrs Wilmès has the courage to endure Parliament's interplays. Mr Van Overtveldt does not have that courage. Mrs Wilmès has the honesty to say to the citizens of the country and to Parliament that the homework has not yet been completed, and that the promised EUR 100 for 30% of the employees was first announced at EUR 100 for all employees. The government's budget housework is far from complete. Mrs Wilmès has the honesty to say that. Mr Van Overtveldt says: mañana, mañana, no problem, no problem. These are southern European situations. Minister Van Overtveldt is very active on Twitter and provides analyses of Greek politics every day, but his own budget and tax shift are not getting in order. Two, today an eminent member of the majority, Mr Van Rompuy, makes a statement. He is chairman of the Finance Committee and therefore a respected colleague. I find the statements that Mr Vuye has made about you today, Mr Van Rompuy, unacceptable. We can be tough in the political debate, but this is unseen, especially if one is part of the same majority. Mr Van Rompuy contradicts Minister Wilmès today and says that it is not 2 billion but 3 billion. In addition to the vote on the motion, we must therefore do something else, namely to convene next week the Finance Committee and put an end to the mess and amateurism, so that the figures that the opposition and public opinion have been asking for for months are finally put on the table. There is now the vote on the simple motion, which we shall vote against with great conviction. Above all, however, our group is asking to be honest about the budget and the tax shift.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u206	Mr President, I was present at the committee and I reminded Mr Laaouej of a word from one of his friends, Mr Moureaux: 'What is excessive is derisory'. So I'm not going to let all these outrages go. The minister has been clear, precise and frank. Everyone greeted his frankness. The government does not lack prudence or seriousness in its management of public finances. The implementation of the budget is not a fixed act. Its implementation must be monitored on a permanent basis and this is what we do by checking the achievement of revenue and the control of expenditure. It is also known that the government has announced that there is a need to pay particular attention to other measures, but also to other revenues because, in the development of the figures, we have been particularly measured, particularly on the return effects. I know you don't like this debate, but it's a reality. The minister explained in committee how she would seriously exercise her role as guardian of the European Union's budgetary objectives and lines. It also very clearly answered a series of questions on the differential between the July tables and the October measures. Everyone was able to see that there was no inconsistency and that things were accurate. It is clear that this government has made a choice to stimulate the economy and increase purchasing power by sanitizing the state budget. We believe that this choice is the right one and we will of course, from year to year, check the possibility of carrying out all the measures taken. As for the minister, in response to the inquiries, she set the benchmarks and gave all the guarantees that she had control of her subject. That prompts us, Mr. Chairman, to table a simple motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u207	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 79 Yes No. 61 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse. The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u208	Stemmen [[140]] Voters Blanco of ongeldig [[11]] White or invalid Valid 129 Valables Perfect majority 65 Absolute majority Mr David Baele received 28 votes. Mr. David Baele won 28 votes. Mr Selahattin Kocak received 101 votes. Mr Selahattin Kocak obtained 101 votes. Mr Selahattin Kocak, who has received the absolute majority, has been appointed alternate to Mr Jogchum Vrielinck. Mr Selahattin Kocak, having obtained an absolute majority, was declared an alternate for Mr Jogchum Vrielinck.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u209	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 28 October 2015. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 28 October 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 062/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Philippe Pivin. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 062/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Philippe Pivin. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u210	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of September there were elections in Catalonia with a very clear result: the independence parties achieved a majority in Parliament. They fulfilled their electoral promises and immediately worked on a resolution that would enable them to take the first steps towards independence. No one can deny today that things are moving in Catalonia. Views have already been taken in Europe on this issue. In my interview, I have looked at the government's position, but the Prime Minister has not made that clear. Unlike Mr Cameron and Mrs Merkel, who have already raised an admonishing finger towards Catalonia and are clearly taking the side of Spain, there is no government position. The only thing I have already heard clearly in the hemisphere is the opinion of Open Vld this afternoon in Question Time by Mr Dewael: a further fragmentation within the Member States cannot be achieved by his group at all. My question to you, ladies and gentlemen, is that the government's position? With my motion of recommendation, I ask the government not to take that view. If you, ladies and gentlemen, do not want to limit your sporadic stirs of nationalism to a Catalan flag on your Twitter profile or to a trip to Catalonia, and if you are serious about it, you must confess colour where there is colour to be seen. Then you must take a position in the government and in Parliament. I therefore call on you to support my motion of recommendation. It is only in this way that you can show all those who are in favour of self-determination that you are serious and that your statements are more than just a cloth or a patch to keep up appearances. Show them that you can at least add value to the current government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u211	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u212	Yes 86 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u213	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[140]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (432/6) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (432/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u214	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[114]] Yes No. 5 No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1185/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1185/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u215	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 123 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1356/04) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1356/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u216	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes [[140]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1221/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1221/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u217	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1247/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1247/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u218	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 90 Yes No. 36 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1248/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1248/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Laurette Onkelinx voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u219	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[140]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1272/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1272/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u220	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1290/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1290/4) Mrs Meryame Kitir, Mr Patrick Dewael, Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux and Mr Wouter De Vriendt voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u221	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1299/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1299/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u222	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1303/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1303/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u223	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1304/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1304/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u224	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1305/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1305/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr Wouter Beke voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u225	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 82 Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1308/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1308/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u226	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes [[140]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1347/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1347/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u227	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1348/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1348/4) Mr Wouter Beke voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u228	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u229	Mr President, I will defend our text until the end. My group, without surprise, will vote against the rejection of our text. We believe in this because we believe that it is really necessary and urgent to legislate on this matter and to regulate the costs charged in the context of amicable debt recovery. Besides, we're not the only ones who want to. This is a demand from all the players in the sector. I call on my colleagues in the majority one last time to refer this text back to committee. Because if this were not the case, consider the absurdity of the situation where politics, and in this case the majority, would not want to legislate when all the players in the sector ask for it. I regret it and regret it. If we can't work on this text again, you can count on my group's determination to put pressure on it to make a difference to protect the consumer from some of the abusive practices observed daily on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u230	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 78 Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 702/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 702/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u231	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 79 Yes No. 36 No Abstentions 25 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 1043/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 1043/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u232	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes 127 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1343/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1343/6) MM. Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Georges Dallemagne, Johan Vande Lanotte, Laurent Devin, Ahmed Laaouej, Gilles Vanden Burre and Mrs Yoleen Van Camp voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-12-54-plenair-ip080x.u233	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 19 November 2015. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 19 November 2015. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 19 November 2015, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 19 November 2015 at 2.15 p.m.
