ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u1	I propose that we begin our work. I assume that there are no further questions on the expert report that was forwarded to the members. I assume that Mr. Nollet is satisfied with the transmission of this document.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u2	Mr President, thank you for your diligence between the last meeting and the next one. We received this report in the afternoon. I also thank the cabinet and the minister for providing us with this information, which is useful for a further debate. We will not have this debate today because it is not on the agenda. But in view of next winter, this note from the CPS will be useful to us for the improvement of the system already announced by the Minister as part of her evaluation. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u3	So the incident is closed, Mr. Nollet. Colleagues, we have a whole series of questions and questions that have been added. In order to live in a decent time, I propose that we stick, as far as possible, to the time allotted for oral questions, that is to say, without great overflows either in the questions, in the answers, or in the replies. You know how much time they have. We begin with Question No 1072 by Mrs de Coster-Bauchau. But I don't see her.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u4	I expected to see her.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u5	In principle, if we go to the next point, our question will fall. She should have been here because she has the very first question this afternoon. But if you tell me she's coming, we'll wait for her.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u6	Madam Minister, many institutions, such as hospitals, data centres, companies and public services, already have emergency groups. This way they can catch unexpected power cuts already. These emergency groups can also be used as a reserve and some emergency groups already provide reserves to Elijah to deal with imbalances. In doing so, Elia can work with an aggregator, who can remotely activate several emergency groups simultaneously. The Law of 26 March 2014 provides for the possibility to instruct the transmission system operator to set up a strategic reserve, which can be activated in case of risk of scarcity. This reserve could consist of power plants that are going to shut down, but still remain available for remuneration. In addition, the strategic reserve can also consist of demand management, a control in electricity consumption. At present, emergency groups are still unable to form part of the strategic reserve. The government agreement states that the government will take an initiative to allow more emergency groups to participate in the market, including its own emergency groups. I have a number of questions about this initiative, Madam Secretary. Emergency groups in hospitals, businesses and public services are spread across the country. Who can make an inventory of all the emergency groups in our country? How can that happen? How many emergency groups are there today and how much is their capacity estimated? Our public services also have emergency groups. Do you already have figures on the number of emergency groups and the capacity of the emergency groups in the public services? If not, who will make an inventory? Can you give us the numbers and a further timing? Emergency groups may participate in certain reserves of Elijah. By 19 September 2014, tenders were submitted for participation in the tertiary reserve. That invitation to tender is already over. Is it appropriate to include emergency groups in our strategic reserve? If so, what steps should be taken to allow emergency groups to participate? In that case, what initiatives would you take to remove the thresholds for participation for those emergency groups?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u7	Mrs Dierick, I do not have a list of generators located in hospitals, companies, public services and so on. My administration currently only has a list of companies selling or renting generators. That list was delivered to the National Crisis Centre. I would like to remind you that the main purpose of these generators is to ensure the safety of persons and/or the security of the process or the operation of the process that cannot cope with long interruptions. In fact, it is not certain that the generators can inject electricity directly onto the grid and that their flexibility and their mode of use should be compatible with the grid. However, in the event of discharge, the start-up of the generators available within the undertakings and private establishments concerned will contribute to the reduction of the demand for electricity. With this in mind, in the event of an actual threat of shortage, the procedure for reducing consumption in buildings, undertakings, public services and others, as I mentioned, drafted by my administration and made available to the consumers concerned, provides for the operation of all electricity generation facilities at local level. From a technical point of view, small-scale generators in companies cannot be used directly for network balancing. Only large-capacity generators with centralized management could participate effectively in network balancing and/or state-of-the-art production. The Tertiary Reserve is part of the auxiliary services available to Elia to enable it to manage the balance and congestion at all times at network level. The new product called Dynamic Profile Tertiary Reserve (R3DP) is intended for customers connected to the distribution network. The flexibility of the offers included in this product must be compatible with the network and be pre-qualified. Production units such as generators can participate in Elia's tenders via bids based on a unit or even a portfolio of ARP or aggregator. In view of the technical constraints imposed to manage the balance of the network, this reserve was limited to 100 MW in 2015. With regard to the strategic reserve, the current legal framework does not allow for the participation of generators. A working group composed of experts from CREG, Elia and the Energy DG of the SPF Economy has highlighted alternative paths to overcome the lack of electricity production in the Belgian fleet in the coming winters. One of the suggested avenues is to clarify the existing legal framework, in order to allow other production equipment such as generators to meet cutting-edge needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u8	Madam Minister, there is still no list of available emergency generators at the moment, if I understand correctly. It has not yet been estimated how much capacity they could have. However, I think it is important to know how many emergency generators there are in our country at the moment. I also understand that it seems technically impossible for them to participate immediately in the tertiary reserve. Other institutions doubt that. I would therefore call on you to continue to investigate this because the emergency groups in our country represent a considerable capacity. It seems to me a very useful piste to see if we can turn them on if there is a need. There will also be a working group to clarify the legal slopes. Legally, it still can't be done, but the working group is going to look into it. I hope that will be done. The government agreement stipulates that an initiative will be taken to allow more emergency groups to participate in the market, including the emergency groups of public buildings. That is a very good intention of the government. I therefore hope that all the thresholds will be removed in order to achieve this effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u9	Mr President, Mrs de Coster-Bauchau informed the secretariat that she apologized. I have just informed him that the three-time postponement of an oral question was impossible and that, therefore, it should be deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u10	Je vous en remercie et en prends bonne note.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u11	Minister, my question will be of a general nature. We know that you wanted to go quickly in the negotiation file with Electrabel on the possible extension of Doel 1 and 2 power plants. What's your status? At the time of submission of my question, I asked you what the timetable was in this regard. At the previous committee meeting, we referred to the 19 December interview in which Electrabel's bosses stated that they were going to be "more transparent and more open". What about it? Since then, in its 7 February edition, Le Soir reported that, in order to balance the negotiation – which is obviously not going as well as expected – you had to launch an ultimatum. Do not attack the press; it is the title used by the newspaper!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u12	Yes, but the title comes from the editorial. I've told you twice!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u13	I'm perfectly aware of that. That's why I'd like to question you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u14	We agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u15	That's it! Let's stay calm; nothing has yet happened. I'm just saying a newspaper title says, "Marghem launches an ultimatum to Electrabel." So I'm asking you what's going on. As the journalist writes, this may be surprising. Indeed, the idea of this ultimatum had never been put forward before, particularly in the case of Tihange 1. Above all, a few days before this interview, Mr. Van Troeye, CEO of Electrobel, confirmed that no investor had yet shown up. It seems important to me that you also respond on this point. Similarly, I would like you to provide me with information on the re-evaluation by BNB and CREG. In January, you told us that you would keep us informed on a regular basis about the progress of work on the nuclear rent. In short, it is the negotiation with Electrabel in all its dimensions, both the extension and the announcement of this ultimatum that you may deny.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u16	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my question is in the same vein. I do not have to tell you what our position is with regard to the extension of the lifetime of Objective 1 and Objective 2, two old nuclear reactors from 1975. In our view, this is not a wise decision and we are looking forward to the substance of the debate in this committee. There is an agreement to organise hearings on this at the time when you would have reached an agreement. I would say that we have reached this point, because this is the time to press for negotiations. You said this weekend in an interview that the negotiations should actually land. The newspaper Le Soir has indeed made of this: Marghem formulates an ultimatum. It is logical that our group, and perhaps other Members of this House, are curious about the state of play in these negotiations. From the start of these negotiations, Electrabel has proposed that nuclear reactors should be kept in operation for longer, but at their price. The question is what space you want to give. What's the status? Are there any calls going on? If so, how are these currently going? Are those calls being made directly between your cabinet and the operator? In the meantime, has any agreement been reached? If so, can we look at it? If not, what are the bottlenecks? I can imagine that nuclear interest rates are a bottleneck and I hope you will make it clear that there can be no question of reducing that contribution. After all, if we want to win with the Lotto, we must participate, but not through an energy policy that allows this to happen in the face of consumers and SMEs. About the ultimatum, you say this is the title. In this context, it is best to be clear immediately whether or not there is an ultimatum. Is there a deadline? By what time do you intend to land? I have seen that, despite the difficult negotiations which do not seem to have been concluded, you discussed and approved a preliminary draft at the Council of Ministers on Friday. These are elements which I believe are difficult to reconcile and on which you are best able to clarify.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been given the mandate to negotiate the terms of the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2. Contacts have been made with the management of Electrabel to jointly define the practical arrangements for this comprehensive negotiation, which covers topics such as the investments needed for the extension and the nuclear contribution. The government's decision of 18 December 2014 was implemented – as you recalled – at the Council of Ministers on Friday 6 February. I draw attention here to the fact that Mr Nollet's question was tabled on 7 January 2015 and that Mr Calvo's question was tabled on 9 February 2015. However, the Council of Ministers approved, at first reading, a preliminary draft law to deal with various energy issues, including the extension of the reactors in question. The purpose of this preliminary draft is to amend the 2003 law on the exit of nuclear power to allow this extension until 2025. It provides a legal framework that accompanies the negotiations. However, on the occasion of this preliminary draft, the Council of Ministers agreed that the life of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 plants will not exceed 31 March 2016, if an agreement on the terms of the extension is not signed with the owner, before 30 November 2015. Why? Because at the end of this fiscal year, there will be a need to discuss the nuclear contribution. This provision is necessary in order not to endanger next winter's supply either. The press has, of course, the greatest freedom as to the content of its articles and their titles. Still, it is not, strictly speaking, an ultimatum. But it is clear that if there is no agreement for November 30, it will become difficult to carry out the ten-year extension, given the phasing out schedule for 2025. In my view, an extension of less than ten years would not make much sense, given the investments and licences needed to do so. It is therefore this balance that is emphasized and nothing else. The first contacts, which began at the beginning of January, are quite constructive. These negotiations must take place within the time frame necessary to reach a good agreement between all parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u18	Minister, did you send the text to the Council of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u19	We have asked the Council of State for urgency. The text was therefore transmitted to him. But – you were a minister – you know how it works. There's a first reading. An opinion of the Council of State shall be delivered. Depending on the conclusions of the working group on this opinion, a second reading will be given. Then, the draft bill will become a formal draft bill that will be tabled on the bench of your Parliament. In fact, you have already included in your work schedule sessions for the examination of this preliminary draft which, like you, I am of the opinion to attach hearings to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u20	Madam Minister, I do not understand one element of your reasoning. On the one hand, you say you have time until 30 November 2015 with Electrabel; on the other hand, you say it is urgent for the Council of State, five days.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u21	But, Mr Nollet, the preliminary draft does not concern the convention. You know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u22	Okay, but both are connected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u23	I have just said that the preliminary draft accompanied the negotiations within the framework of the convention to be signed. That's all I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u24	But you're binding the two yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u25	I don't see where the problem is.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u26	Let me explain it to you. In the bill that will come to us, you say that with Electrabel, we give ourselves until November 30, 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u27	That's not what I said, but it can happen before. Don't twist the sentence. This is a guideline that can intervene, which must even intervene before, and I have not changed my mind, but no later than November 30, 2015. This shows that you also think that the term "ultimatum" used is somewhat exaggerated. Basically, without falling into semantics, the term "ultimatum" refers to the final moment when this agreement should be concluded. In reality, most likely, it will be before.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u28	I would remind you that we are in the line and I propose a very last intervention. Then we will move on to Mr Calvo's reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u29	Mr President, you will excuse me, but I have not yet had the opportunity to elaborate on my reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u30	In fact, you asked a question as a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u31	The end word in parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u32	I therefore maintain that there is a dissonance between the urgency you are asking the Council of State and the time you are giving Electrabel. You tell us nothing about the modalities except that the negotiations have begun and that you consider them constructive. You are not telling us anything about the fact that no investor has been present so far and you are not saying anything about the revaluation of the value of the current nuclear rent. However, you announce that you will keep yourself informed regularly. In short, contrary to what had been announced, we are not yet very transparent or very open on this issue. This will be done; it is essential: the financial stakes are important, but I will have the opportunity to come back with other questions in the wake.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u33	Mr President, despite the additional questions put by Mr Nollet, it is not quite clear to me whether the preliminary draft submitted to the Council of Ministers on Friday is only about the adjustment, i.e. the mini-extension until 2016, or even the deletion of 2015-2025? Did what you sent to the Council of State already relate to the extension until 2025?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u34	This is a 10-year extension until 2025. If, indeed, the agreement is not concluded by 30 November 2015 – you understand – then the extension will be the one originally planned, i.e. until mid-2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u35	This means that at Friday's Council of Ministers you reached an agreement on extending the lifespan to 2025. I don't understand. You are putting yourself in a very uncomfortable negotiating position. Two or three weeks ago, you announced with great drum that you want to keep the nuclear power stations open longer, until 2025, and that you will negotiate in that sense. There's almost got to be begging to keep them open. The operator will reply that the extension will only be possible at its price. Last week you stated that this will not be possible for eternity and you set a deadline, a deadline or an ultimatum, you call it whatever you want. You say that a decision must be taken, but at the same time you decide at the Council of Ministers to draw up a preliminary draft for an extension until 2025 and therefore to ask the operator very kindly again to keep the power stations open for longer. The timing you use is no coincidence. You will wait for the new research on nuclear interest and the convention will be signed only afterwards. In fact, you are already fully involved in the schedule of lifetime extensions and less nuclear interest rates. It is therefore twice cash for the operator. Madam Secretary, who are you negotiating for? Are you a co-negotiator for GDF Suez or are you participating in negotiations for our consumers and SMEs? After all, the negotiating strategy you choose is not a negotiating strategy. You're almost on your bare knees asking to keep the power stations open longer. I don't understand the calendar you're following at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u36	Mr President, Madam Minister, I had the opportunity to ask you in committee on 6 January about the decision taken by the Council of Ministers, but without further clarification, to set up an energy transition fund to encourage research projects into new innovative energies. The concept looks very interesting. At that time, and despite the fact that the government's communication dated back to December, you could not give me more details because you still had to go back to the government to debate a proposal from you. Since then, you have gone to the government on 6 February; you mentioned it in your answer to the previous question. Minister, can you tell us today what amounts will contribute to this fund in 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019? Can you tell us what the scope of this fund is and what specific missions are assigned to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u37	Mr President, Mr Nollet, the establishment of this transition fund is one of the elements related to the extension of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 units. The preliminary draft law, which was approved by the Council of Ministers on Friday, 6 February, established its principle. A legislative initiative will be introduced in the coming months to organize its terms and conditions, while the preparatory work for the interaction between my firm and the government is still under way, particularly with regard to the amounts that will contribute to this fund and the objectives that will be assigned to it. They are not yet definitively frozen. You will have every opportunity to examine the preliminary draft when it comes to Parliament in March.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u38	Minister, as I understand it, the text was approved at first reading. There are still many chapters with no date, no number, no precision, but you have already sent the text to the Council of State! It's amazing!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u39	I'm going back to what I just said. It's pretty systematic. You misunderstood!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u40	The field is not yet known but the text is already in the Council of State! Tell me if I misunderstood!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u41	Yes, thank you for listening carefully! The preliminary draft you will receive is the creation of principle. The modalities and funding of this fund will be supported by another project, which will take place in several months' time. This is the legislative package that you will find on your table and you will have the opportunity to say all the harm you think when it comes to your committee in March!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u42	Things are very clear! This is a principle on which the government has already communicated that there is an alleged balance. In fact, there's absolutely nothing behind it and we'll see another project later! I really don't see the point of maintaining this principle in a piece of legislation. Today, we understand that behind this communication, which dates back to December, there is nothing concrete, nothing in terms of budget, nothing in terms of scope! In short, nothing for the energy transition!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u43	I'm not going to say "the incident is closed" every time! It is considered that when this is over, the incident is closed. That's the academic formula.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u44	It's like the story of the little toy: when it's over, that's all!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u45	Mr President, Madam Minister, at the meeting of the Committee on Economy, which deals with energy issues on 18 November 2014, I asked you about the CREG's proposals on the evolution of regulatory mechanisms in the gas and electricity markets. In particular, the adoption of the third energy package, in particular the various network codes established at European level, which aim to unify the European energy market, was discussed. I was asking you again about the case on January 6th and you were replying that these contacts were going to be taken incessantly. That was the second time I asked you the question. What about today's report that you asked your administration on this issue? Can you now communicate the details to the Commission? Two months have passed. Furthermore, the regulator referred in his last report to the possibility that certain tasks currently entrusted to system operators, such as the question of cooperation between transmission system operators, might be transferred to its field of competence. Would it be a matter of complying with European legislation? What exactly is the situation? Could you give me an overview of the collaborations that are currently being carried out between our network operators and those of other Member States of the European Union? Thank you for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u46	Mr President, Mr Nollet, within the framework of the third energy package and the further unification of the European energy market, the strengthening of cooperation between the system operators of the various Member States is a reality. The European network codes in particular, which aim, inter alia, to remove bottlenecks at national borders, lead to and require more collaboration between the different network operators. These directly binding network codes also provide for the creation of new entities, resulting in significant changes in the overall tasks and responsibility of transmission system operators. These developments also encourage transmission system operators to collaborate more intensively and to carry out their tasks jointly through the creation of joint ventures. In 2014, for example, the Electricity Network Code Capacity Allocation and Congestion Management was adopted, as well as the Gas Network Code Balancing. In 2015, we continue discussions and negotiations on codes. This is a fairly recent data as you have just heard. It was decided within ACER that ACER would continue to examine this evolution towards NEMOs and PRISMA Gaz. To that end, I refer you to the Bridge to 2025 paper which you will find on the ACER website and in particular to Title V, point 6, paragraphs 85 et seq., pages 29 to 33. The evolution from the simple national level to the European level is now an increasingly tangible reality. It is manifested, for example, by the activities of the Belgian electricity system operator, Elia, which is also active in Germany in certain regions in terms of network management via its 50 Hz subsidiary. Here are a number of important examples of specific collaboration projects between TSOs in which Belgian network operators are involved. The PRISMA gas project consists of a common platform for transmission capacity auctions at interconnection points, which is managed by PRISMA and was created on 1 January 2013. It now has 23 transmission system operators from 8 European countries among its members. This auction platform has been operational since 1 April 2013 and offers, on the points of interconnection between the entry and exit areas of transmission system operators in 10 European countries, time-distributed pooled transport capacity in accordance with the NCCAM proactively with a view to its mandatory application from 1 November 2015. PRISMA has also been offering since 1 January 2014 a secondary platform on which charterers can market contracted pooled capacity. Fluxys Belgium is a PRISMA shareholder and currently offers bundled day-ahead transport capacity through the PRISMA platform. The NEMO Electricity project is a collaboration-cooperation between the Belgian electricity transmission system operator and other transmission system operators. This cooperation was further demonstrated in the framework of NEMO, the name of the project of direct current power lines with a voltage of 1000 MW to be established between the Belgian territory and the British territory. This collaboration was made necessary by the desire of the project's promoters to have a specific regulatory framework known as "cap and floor" midway between the Belgian regulated system and the British regulatory framework and to create within this framework a joint subsidiary which will be manager of the infrastructure and owner of the property of the latter. The electricity law has recently been adapted to make it possible to set up such a joint subsidiary. This is the Act of 8 May 2014 on various energy provisions. The final investment decision is expected to be made at the end of February 2015 and the interconnection put into service in the course of 2019. In the field of gas, some projects are currently under consideration. You will find more details on this, as well as collaborative projects, in the annual report that CREG will be forwarding to your House in the near future, as it usually does, at the end of April.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u47	Mr. Chair, I thank the minister for her answer that I will take the time to analyze, including by going to the mentioned website.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u48	Mr President, Madam Minister, at the November 18, 2014 committee, you stated that you had instructed your administration to analyse the consequences of the proposal made by CREG to designate Belpex as the sole manager of trading markets. I was asking you again about the case on January 6, but nothing had yet been done. What now? What lessons do you learn from this analysis? Madam Minister, you also pointed out that a possible monopoly of Belpex would be contrary to European legislation. What steps has the government taken to meet European requirements while integrating the regulator's recommendations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u49	Mr Nollet, thank you for the conciseness of your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u50	Mr President, Mr Nollet, I will be just as concise. I can only reiterate the answer already given on this subject. The question of the future status of Belpex as a legal monopoly in accordance with the market model subject to the control power of the CREG and only entitled to manage reserves will have to be the subject of a specific proposal by the federal regulator. The problem of the compatibility of such a monopoly with European requirements will also have to be solved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u51	Madam Minister, this is obviously too short! You leave me in the same state of mind as after your previous answer. I'm still totally hungry. Requests and proposals are made. That seems relevant to me. But you do not really answer. I shall therefore ask you again in a very specific way about the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u52	Minister, on January 7, the exact cost of the extension of Tihange 1 was different. They must have made you react. Can you do us the topo on what's correct and what's not? How will the overall cost – which amounts to more than 600 million euros – be passed on? According to what timetable and modalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u53	Mr Nollet, some of the statements made in De Morgen on 7 January were not correct, as the same newspaper acknowledged the following day. The agreement does not guarantee any price per megawatt-hour produced to the owner. As a reminder, the previous government negotiated with the owners of Tihange 1, Electrabel and EDF, the conditions for extending its operation for another ten years, until 30 September 2025. This extension will go hand in hand with significant investments on this site. This Convention, adopted in application of the main principles set out in Article 4(1), § 2 of the Law of 31 January 2003 on the progressive exit of nuclear energy for the purposes of industrial electricity production, as amended by the Law of 18 December 2013, defines the economic parameters of this extension with a view to guaranteeing its owners a stable economic and legal environment. However, it is conditional on the implementation of the safety investments required by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. The Convention also lays down the conditions under which the same owners must pay a royalty to the Belgian State after recovering their operational costs and investments. The amount of this fee shall be subject to annual verification by CREG. The total investment estimated by Electrabel amounts to EUR 600 million. The programme of their implementation shall be implemented after agreement and under the supervision of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u54	So, these 600 million euros will inevitably end up on consumers' bills...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u55	Mr President, Mrs de Coster-Bauchau wishes to turn her question No 1072 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u56	Madam Minister, thank you for providing the secretariat to our colleague!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u57	Mr President, she is a member of my group...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u58	Mr President, Madam Minister, at the committee on 6 January, on several occasions you have justified a lack of response by the fact that your administration is overwhelmed by the mass of priority energy issues. I share this assessment of the volume of important files that are to be dealt with by your administration. I would like to know what actions you have taken, like some of your colleagues, to protect your department from the linear savings blindly envisaged by the government and which, for staff, amount to 4% in 2015, 6% in 2016, 8% in 2017, 10% in 2018 and 12% in 2019; and for the operation of 20, 22, 24, 26 and 28% in 2019. Have you, like some of your colleagues, been able to demonstrate and obtain from your colleagues a reduction in this linear and blind effort with regard to the mass, volume and importance of the files that your administration had to deal with?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that the savings measures decided by the government in the area of personnel credit and operating credit concern all federal public administrations and therefore also the Directorate-General for Energy. These savings consist, on the one hand, of linear savings from staff appropriations from 2015 to 2019, 4% in 2015 and 2% each year from 2016 to 2019; and, on the other hand, of operating appropriations, 20% during the period 2015-2018. Monitoring will now be carried out on a monthly basis on the application of these measures. It will be based on available data such as wage and budgetary data from EDFCOM. In 2015, the first monthly monitoring will be based on January 2015 salary data. The period analysed will take into account the data from October to January inclusive. Based on the assessment of the staff cost risk analysis carried out by the end of February 2015, the Council of Ministers will take decisions on whether or not to allow new recruitments. In the event of an agreement, a simplified selective replacement procedure will take place if the department has structural margins. It is therefore premature at this stage to answer precisely or to be able to answer your question precisely without having the result of this first monitoring and without knowing the importance of the margins within the SPF concerned. In a structural way, I will pay particular attention to this, as the technical expertise and experience of this administration now give me full satisfaction in preparing and meeting the deadlines for my decision-making. It also invites me to trust him in other short-term challenges, such as the drafting of the energy pact provided for in the government agreement. In the event of the 2015 personnel plan being drawn up, I will ensure, in consultation with the Minister responsible for the SPF Economy, my colleague Kris Peeters, that opportunities for recruitment and promotion are given priority to my administration. In the meantime, these officials are doing their utmost to exploit all the internal tracks in the SPF Economy, allowing, first, to attract new employees through internal mobility; second, to motivate employees who are present to maintain their performance - using modern means of communication, telework, etc.Third, to find synergies and collaborations within the SPF Economy, in particular with regard to legal support.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u60	Madam Minister, I understand that you will assess the situation during the monitoring, but the framework within which the savings are to be achieved is not called into question with regard to your department. I'm telling you as I think it's untenable! Compared to the challenges of the energy sector, it is untenable! In any case, understand that I will not accept from you the answers of style: "My administration is overwhelmed", "It does not have time to answer your questions", "We are not ready on any particular file". It is you who assume the framework today, including for your department. You're playing this game. We're not playing it! In any case, we will not accept any further exchanges, such as those we may have had in January by saying: "We have not had time to answer your questions!"
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u61	Mr President, Madam Minister, I asked your colleague from the Interior this question; he sent me back to you. The US authorities are opposed to a strengthening of the Convention on Nuclear Safety (CSN) and are apparently trying to put pressure on the European Union. They are aimed in particular at Belgium, which, if it does not surrender, could be deprived of uranium supply for the Mol nuclear reactor by the United States. Mol is one of the world's largest producers of radioactive material for hospitals. By doing so, the United States is playing a scandalous blackmail. Without uranium, it is impossible to produce the radioisotopes that are used in cancer treatments. Minister, could you provide us with the information you have on this file? Are American threats proven? What about it? What is the government's position on this issue? Has a consultation with the PSAN been established? What are the elements that emerge from these meetings? If these threats are activated, what steps have you taken to ensure that the health of thousands of people is not affected? I would remind you that all these questions were put to your colleague, Mr Jambon, on 7 January, but he sent me back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u62	Mr President, Mr Nollet, the dossier of the revision of the Convention on Nuclear Safety (CSN), at the next diplomatic conference to be held in February 2015, and the dossier of the supply of highly enriched uranium to the SCK-CEN in Mol and the Institut des radioélements de Fleurus are two separate dossiers. Although all CSN countries are in favour of revising this Convention to take into account, inter alia, the lessons learned from the Fukushima accident, its revision process sparked strong discussions at the October preparatory meeting. It was in this context that delegations held numerous informal exchanges on the sidelines of the plenary session in an attempt to advance their positions. However, since December, the parties have returned to a strong will to find a common path and to make the next diplomatic review conference a success. With regard to the future supply of highly enriched uranium, I can assure you that our relations with the United States of America are excellent. We are working together and we hope to be able to work with the United States for many years to ensure the supply of medical radioisotopes not only from Belgium or the United States, but also from Europe and much of the world. Evidence of this is that, on 23 December 2014, the US competent authorities submitted an application for an export authorisation to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the relevant US agency, of highly enriched uranium to the BR2 reactor. The first deliveries of nuclear fuel for the BR2 reactor are planned for Belgium by 2016-2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u63	Minister, I take note of the fact that, in your opinion, there is no problem or pressure in this matter. We'll see what happens. You say that there is a next deadline in February 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u64	The reply was drawn up prior to this diplomatic conference, which is scheduled to take place in February. I simply wanted to say, from the outset, that the dossier for the revision of this Convention at this next diplomatic conference and the dossier for the supply of uranium were two distinct things. I don't have the exact date of this diplomatic conference, but I can communicate it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u65	I had the same confusion as you about the date of this diplomatic conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u66	It took place on Friday.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u67	I will come back to his results later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u68	With pleasure!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u69	There is already room for the next question!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u70	The conference took place on Friday. I will analyse the results and we will be happy to discuss them again!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u71	Mr. Chairman, the minister tells us that she prepared the answer before! I mean it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u72	And then!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u73	Mr President, if we answer "and then" we need a meeting every week! I tabled my question a month ago, first to Mr Jambon, and then it was transferred to Mrs Marghem. I immediately forwarded it to the committee. From now on, I will table all my questions the day before the committee so I can be sure that I have some updated answers!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u74	Mr Nollet, I do not object to visiting you as many times as you want, but the President must organise his work and I am not the only minister who has to come to this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u75	Mr Calvo, you are asking for the floor, but we are not discussing the order of business; we are dealing with questions!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u76	Mr President, as a member of this committee, I would like to say something about the order of business. Mrs. Marghem, I think you're overreacting. There is a great deal of empathy in Parliament and in this committee. I fully understand that not every question can be answered perfectly and that some additional data need to be looked up. However, in each committee meeting, with several questions, Mr President, Mrs Marghem challenges the committee and gives the laconical answer that we do not yet get. That must stop, especially in the case of a minister who, I understand, has not been available at various times in recent weeks. You have just begun, Minister, you know that Parliament is an important stakeholder. If you want a bid and a conflict, you can have a bid and a conflict. We simply want serious answers to the questions we are asking.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u77	Mr President, I would simply like to recall the decision of the Conference of Presidents concerning the unavailability of the five ministers responsible in the Committee on the Economy. In other words, none of them could have been present in committee. I take note of the fact that, from now on, we will no longer be confronted with this kind of problem. However, the Conference of Presidents considered the matter on 28 January.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u78	If I had answered you on 9 January, the day after your question was tabled, my answer would have been the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u79	Today, the Conference took place.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u80	It's on Friday. It's Tuesday.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, questions are on the agenda of our committee. Answers are provided. Everyone can, of course, make a judgment as to their content.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u82	I try not to wait until the last moment to communicate my questions to the minister's office so that the minister has the opportunity to answer them. That said, I can use another tactic and send all my questions at the last minute. I do not remember exactly what the Rules of Procedure provide for, whether it is within 24 hours or 48 hours, but I will check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u83	Neither do I!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u84	In any case, when a series of questions is addressed to one of the five ministers in this committee, I try to put them on our agenda, taking into account the availability of ministers. As much as possible, I plan to do so as I move forward and plan to discuss bills and bills at another time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u85	Mrs Lalieux has to go to another committee and asks that she be allowed to go first.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u86	Mr President, I thank my colleagues. I won't be long. Madam Minister, during the exchange of views on 16 December, you went back to the situation in Ghent – my colleague will come back – Charleroi and Liège. You stated that you asked Elia to calculate the impact on the effectiveness of the clearance plan if the port and the airports had exited. My questions are as follows. Have the requested evaluations been completed? If so, what are the results? What conclusions do you draw? Now I have to go and defend a resolution. I'll come back later for my other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u87	Madam Minister, at the committee on 6 January, you confirmed that you had asked Elia to analyse the number of megawatts saved if the Charleroi and Liège airports were to be removed from the clearance plan in the same way as the port of Ghent. Maybe some sort of balance. You informed us that you were gradually receiving the answers and that Elia's calculations would make you make a decision shortly. "Incessantly," that was the word you used. Therefore, my question is: What decision have you made? Between January 6 and today's date, we exceeded the reasonable time limit to consider that we were incessant. In addition, I would like to receive the information provided, in particular on the number of megawatts saved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u88	Madam Minister, as my fellow Members have already said, you said in a previous debate that you asked the high voltage system operator Elia to quadruple the strategic electricity reserve. A strategic reserve of 850 megawatts was built for this winter. By next winter, that should be 3,500 megawatts. This decision comes in response to the announcement that many old and loss-making power stations will be closed down this year. In this way, next winter, 1 600 megawatts of electricity would be less available than is currently the case. You therefore want to provide the necessary reserves. You're holding on to the shutdown plan. You confirm that this shutdown plan will also remain in force for the next winter, despite the additional reserve you provide. Fortunately, until now, we have been spared from the switch-off plan. I think we should be pleased that winter is not as hard as it had been predicted. We maintain that such a switch-off plan could have enormous economic consequences for a number of economic sites: the airports of Liège and Charleroi, and the port of Ghent. Of course, I know the port of Ghent better. I would like to stress once again that this port meets all the criteria to be excluded from the exit plan: 180 companies, including 6 Seveso companies, a hospital, 5 RVTs, 70 600 inhabitants and so on. If the port of Ghent falls without power, this could have huge consequences for a number of people. In addition, major economic damage is also possible. At the committee meeting on 6 January, you indicated that there was a possibility that the port of Ghent and the airports of Charleroi and Liège would be removed from the exit plan. The city of Ghent and the port of Ghent have therefore stopped their proceedings against the exit plan, but they have immediately announced that they will restart their proceedings if the exit plan continues to apply for next year. I shall then come to my questions, Madam Secretary. In the meantime, has Elia quantified the impact of removing these economic sites from the shutdown plan? What are the concrete findings? Is it still intended to draw up a definitive exit plan for the coming years? Will this plan be revised? Will the economic sites be removed from the plan? Will this be done in consultation with provincial and municipal authorities? What criteria are used in relation to the disabling and switching of zones? So much for my questions, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u89	Mr President, we have had the opportunity to ask the Minister a number of questions on this subject. That was during the hearing on the exit plan in December, even before the recess, and also at the beginning of January, Madam Minister. You said twice that there will be a study by Elijah on the impact of removing certain sites, namely the airports of Charleroi and Liège and the port of Ghent. It would be considered whether this would be possible for electricity supply and what its economic impact on infrastructure would be. On the basis of that study, you would or would not make an adjustment to the exit plan. Since yesterday there is also a new situation in Ghent. You know that the port together with the city of Ghent had brought an interim action. Yesterday afternoon, we heard that the port and the city of Ghent were shutting down the legal procedure. Normally, the interim proceedings would be dealt with tomorrow. The cessation is based on the observation that you understand the situation in Ghent and on your positive attitude to take into account Ghent's questions, for which I thank you. Mr Calvo, I am taking this from the city press release. Madam Secretary, have you received Elijah's study? What is the result of this study on the port of Ghent? In the press release of the city of Ghent it is already a bit indicated, but on the basis of this study will you consider removing the port of Ghent from the exit plan for the winter of 2015-2016? When will we be able to decide on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u90	Mr Yüksel, you must read that communiqué in full. I said earlier that if the port of Ghent is not removed from the exit plan, there will be another interim action. This is only for the sake of completeness.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u91	Colleagues, we will hear the minister's answer. We must take into account a new element since the hearings on the delestages, that is the fact that Ghent is led by the second best mayor in the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u92	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Elia has indeed, at my request, carried out a study to assess the impact of the exclusion from the plan of various high-voltage stations supplying the facilities of the port of Ghent, the facilities of the regional airports of Liège and Charleroi and the embankment stations. I told you, at the beginning of January, that I was still waiting for the calculations on the embankment stations. There are 20 of them in the territory. I don't have them yet. But, on the other hand, I have the other three. The exclusion of two stations supplying the port of Ghent represents an estimated power of 24 MW and 18 MW respectively, i.e. a total of 42 MW on tranche 6 exclusively. Secondly, the exclusion of the station supplying Charleroi airport represents an estimated power of 16 MW on tranche 6B. Thirdly, the exclusion of the station supplying the Liège airport represents an estimated power of 32 MW on the 5B tranche. The impact of excluding these items from the plan is therefore of the order of 42 MW for the port of Ghent, 48 MW for airports. However, it is important to note that this impact for airports is only for sub-thresholds B following the division of sub-thresholds A and B for the south-east and south-west geographical areas. The estimated overall impact of 90 MW represents about 3% of the total MW involved in the discharge plan, i.e. 3,000 MW. My administration is working to set up a working group in collaboration with key partners to start work next week. The aim of this group is to carry out an assessment of the discharge plan and its legal basis in order to identify on the basis of impact assessments carried out if it is not possible to make limited modifications for the coming winter in order to reduce, if possible, the consequences of these. For the following winters, it is also envisaged that a further assessment of the release plan will be carried out in order to make in-depth changes. This involves broad consultation to take into account complaints and complaints raised at different levels of power so as to develop a plan favouring the maintenance of services: transport, communications, the safety of people and goods, relief, industrial and other activities, rather than simply proportional zonal division. At present, there can be no question of making decisions to make changes to the practical modalities of the clearance plan, as I have always said, since the evaluation of the plan has not yet been carried out. This is essential for me to work in depth for the following winters. All emergency planning arrangements are based on this plan. The practical arrangements of the switch-off plan, in particular the lists of the high voltage stations and the corresponding disk number, were drawn up by the transmission system operator Elia in the framework of their reconstruction code, on the following legal basis. Firstly, the Royal Decree of 19 December 2002 laying down a technical regulation for the management of the electricity transmission network and its access. Secondly, the Royal Decree of 3 June 2005 establishing the switch-off plan for the electricity transmission network.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u93	Minister, you've been able to collect the figures, but you haven't decided yet. However, at the committee meeting on 6 January 2015, you announced a decision shortly. You have some of the numbers, in any case those of Ghent and the two airports. On this point, it would be good to have a quick decision. I know that winter is slowly retreating and spring is approaching us. Nevertheless, clarification could help each other. With regard to your evaluation work, you distinguish the short-term impact assessment, i.e. for next year, from the medium-term evaluation, i.e. for the coming winters. I'm sorry. I thought we would be able to assess on the basis of this year with measures already taken and having an impact in the coming winter. However, you have not yet clearly classified what you are going to put in the short term compared to the medium term. I may remain open to the possibility that, as of next year, you may be able to take into account not only what will be said in the working group, but also what has been said – I suppose that will be the case – in the many work that this committee has done on the issue of the assessment of discharge. I take up one of the dimensions, so as to make the members of the evaluation group aware. Others have also been mentioned, but I want to stick to my speaking time. So I only take the cutting into slices. If we read the ministerial decree, it should not stop at a six-part split. It is a question of allocating by 5 % and thus reaching 20 tranches for a total of 100 %, in order that it is not always the six which is targeted first and which regularly returns to take its share of responsibility but that everyone is responsible for what is at stake. This is one of the elements mentioned in the work of this group that you initiated and which meets for the first time next week. We will return once the results are known. I do not know if you have set a deadline for the short term, not for the medium term.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u94	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. First, I want to replicate the numbers you give. It is very strange that a switch-off plan is drawn up and that only after that is known how much value in megawatt the various nevertheless important economic sites represent. You add that you do not have all the figures yet. From this I think I can conclude that a switch-off plan was drawn up with different disks, so that I can then calculate how much each disk represents in megawatt. I don't think that's very reassuring. We now have a number of figures, but you yourself say that you have not yet received all the figures. Personally, I find that very strange. Let's take a look at the future. As soon as you have all the figures, you will start the evaluation, so you say. I hope that this evaluation will be carried out seriously, because we have now crawled through the eye of the needle because we have a mild winter. I hope we will be better prepared by next winter. Mr President, I hope that we can also discuss this evaluation in this committee, together with those involved, such as those responsible for Elijah and others. I do not expect that evaluation until December 2015, but before the summer, because it will be necessary to make some adjustments. I therefore hope, Madam Minister, that you will have the final figures before the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u95	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. You indicate that it is still too early for a comprehensive and thorough evaluation. I would also like to call for this thorough evaluation to be carried out quickly and as quickly as possible. We can now also take advantage of the opportunity and the time. The exit plan may not be activated this winter to evaluate as soon as possible and to make it clear in view of the coming winter where it stands for the port of Ghent. The port community of Ghent is counting on it. That is why I hope that it will be clear as soon as possible whether or not the question of the city and the port can be addressed. From the communication of the city of Ghent I understand that there are good reasons, also in view of your figures and those of others, to remove the port of Ghent from the exit plan. We look forward to this thorough evaluation with great interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u96	Mr President, I shall refer to figures to understand the volume of the closures announced in the near future of various power plants. This issue is obviously not unrelated to the issue of the shortage that has been discussed, nor to the direct or indirect pressures that Electrabel may put on extending the life of its nuclear power plants. Madam Minister, in the newspaper De Tijd, as in the newspaper L'Echo of 9 January, the note of your administration concerning the closure of various power stations in the near future was mentioned. Could you provide us with a copy of this note so that we can compare it with the answers you gave me on 18 November, in order to avoid a lengthy debate here on the various figures? If you cannot communicate it to us, we will be able to conduct this debate. What is the list of plants that will close in 2015 and their capacity? Above all, what are the reasons for these closures? It becomes easy to say, on the one hand, that there is a risk of shortages and, on the other hand, to shut down the plants without having to justify the reasons for these closures. On the other hand, maybe you have good news...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u97	I'm not closing them!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u98	Happy again!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u99	Yet that's what you're saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u100	Read what I said in the transcript. I didn't say you shut down the power plants. I've been talking about the list of plants that will close. I didn't say you'd shut them down. By the time I was interrupted, I was saying that you might have some good news about the entry into the market of new production capacity. I would like to take this question and ask you also to take stock of the state of strategic reserves because in the meantime you have also communicated externally on this subject. My question was tabled in early January, but you are not seen until early February. We have taken note of your availability for the suite. What is the capacity that is already on the reserve and what is the additional capacity that you are considering in view of the announced closures? A Sia Partners demand management study identified a potential of 1,560 MW. In short, how are we going to implement these other extremely important elements in order to understand the needs?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u101	Mr Nollet, before you communicate to any journalist, you will tell me, so we can discuss it together, in the same way that I have no problem alerting you to various subjects relating to questions that you would ask yourself, all of them as regularly as possible. The note to which you refer is a confidential note, written by my administration in collaboration with the transmission system operator and CREG. The purpose of this note is to identify the difficulties encountered by producers in ensuring that production units, for which an intention to decommission has been notified, can become part of the strategic reserve. The disclosure of the details in the note, which would allow me to respond to your first four sub-questions, would be such as to break the trust established between the authors of the note and the private partners involved in the preparation of this note. You will therefore understand that, in these circumstances, I do not wish it to be published. With regard to the strategic reserve, the Act of 26 March 2014 amending the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market, known as the "electricity law", aims to introduce the possibility for the minister with energy in his competence to instruct the transmission system operator to set up, for a given period, a so-called strategic reserve that can be activated in the event of a risk of electricity shortage. Thus, in order to ensure security of supply, units which are the subject of a notification of temporary or definitive cessation and units which are actually under cocoon, i.e. temporary cessation, are obliged to participate in the procedure of constitution of the reserve. Demand management offers, which help the electrical system overcome peaks of consumption and thus help to ensure security of supply, will also be allowed to participate in the strategic reserve. According to section 7quater of the Electricity Act, the above-mentioned Act, the Minister may instruct the system operator to establish a strategic reserve for a period of one to three years, starting on the first day of the coming winter period and fixing the level of that reserve in megawatts. The decision, the analysis of the Network Manager and the opinion of DG Energy are published on the website of the SPF Economy, SMEs, Middle Classes and Energy. The site in question includes the following documents for the coming winter period 2015-2016: Elia's analysis of the 2015-2016 winter period; DG Energy's opinion concerning the same winter period; and the Minister's decision concerning this winter period, which, by ministerial order of 15 January 2015, mandated the system operator Elia to contract an additional volume of 2,700 megawatts. This brings the total volume, including the 700 MW already mobilized for the strategic reserve established in 2014 for a period of three years, to 3,500 MW. These 2,700 MW of strategic reserve, complementary and necessary, will consist of production units that would no longer be available on 1 November next without this measure or demand management measures. The contracts will run for one year, with the exception of those relating to part of this volume of 2,700 MW, between 300 and 500 MW coming exclusively from the production which will be contracted for two years. This volume can only be modified if AFCN decides, before 30 June, to release the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 nuclear units to the network. If one or two units can restart before the 2015–16 winter period, the Minister may decide to revise the strategic reserve volume downwards. In this case, a new call for tenders will not be organised, but the necessary volumes will be selected from among the proposals expressed in this call for tenders. The contracts will last one year, with the exception of part of this revised volume, from 300 to 500 MW coming – as I said – exclusively from the production that will be contracted for two years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u102	Madam Minister, I do not understand why, in November, you were giving this list and why, today, you are refusing to communicate the update. In answer to question 42, you gave me the list. But when I ask you to update it, you refuse. I'm talking about the list for 2015 and 2016. It's a scandal, Minister! You're not informing us anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u103	Show me this document, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u104	I can bring you a photocopy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u105	Unfortunately, my vision is not that of an eagle.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u106	Trust me for a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u107	No, that's not possible. I'm sorry; I like to check.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u108	Mr President, I would ask for a suspension of the meeting. If I cannot be trusted for a copy I promise the minister, I would ask for a few moments of suspension. You have to stop laughing!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u109	I'm not laughing, Mr. Nollet, contrary to what you think.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u110	You play, because you don't spread the numbers, as if it would solve the problem! You know very well what's behind these numbers! It is an organized pressure to be able to prolong because there is supposedly a need. But the same shut down the power stations on the other side! That is what we want to bring to light! You are complicit in this by not disseminating the updating of the figures. You gave them in November; now you don't want to give them anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u111	Mr President, if I may, I would like to consider this document or suspend our sitting, as you will decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u112	This is the reply. If a copy is required, we will wait a few moments for the time to receive the copy. Minister, can you take a look at this document and provide us with more information so that Mr. Nollet can complete his reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u113	You just want to update identities and megawatts?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u114	Exactly, that's what was in my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u115	There is, of course, more than that. I'll confirm it. There's no problem. But for all the other details... there's not just that in the note, Mr. Nollet, but you want the whole note. I'll give you the updated figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u116	I ask you, "Can you give us a copy of this note?" That is the first question. The second: "What is the updated list of plants that will close in 2015?"
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u117	You're gonna get it. We'll ask for it. You will have the update of this table; only that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u118	Thank you. What part of this table are you going to provide us with updated information that would be confidential? I don't see the difference anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u119	This note is much more complex than a simple table. That's all I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u120	What are the confidential data?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u121	I don't know. I'm not giving it to you, so I'm not answering you. It's confidential, so I'm not answering you. I give you figures and their update. That's all I'm giving you. I explained why.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u122	You play a dangerous game, especially on this one. On the day it explodes, the responsibility for not giving this note to parliamentarians will be attributed to you. At that time, we would say, "We don't know, we didn't know, we couldn't." I am telling you today that in order to see clearly, in particular, what decisions we will have to take as a parliament, we will have to know and examine this note in all its dimensions. Mr President, since the minister will transmit the answer to us through the secretariat, it will be circulated as usual and I thank you already. Beyond that, we will come back with this issue of transparency. It is fundamental precisely to feel the state of need. There is clearly a harmful game that is played on the back of the citizen! We organize the shortage so that we can raise the prices and he will pay the bill! Minister, count on us not to let you do that!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u123	Joined Questions No 1412 by Mrs Karine Lalieux and No 1983 by Mr Jean-Marc Delizée are postponed at the end of the meeting at the request of Mrs Lalieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u124	Madam Secretary, if soil erosion is to be carried out, it is about a great deal of money. Releasing fuel tanks in private households often lead to distressing situations. Today there is no support for citizens in the form of intervention in costs. In 2000, however, the government announced the recovery fund for fuel oil tanks in an environmental policy agreement. Resources from this fund should be able to be used in the event of pollution caused by private fuel oil tanks. The coalition agreement shows that, after 15 years, effective work will be done on this fund, which, of course, we welcome. Madam Minister, first of all, what initiatives have you taken in the meantime to restart the dossier? Secondly, has there been any consultation? The file has to be dealt with across the different regions. Thirdly, are there any bottlenecks which currently hinder or delay the handling of the dossier? When do you intend to land and will citizens be able to effectively call on the fuel oil pollution fund? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u125	I refer immediately to my reply to Mrs Griet Smaers' oral question of 4 December 2014. In fact, the federal government agreement contains the government's commitment to set up a fund within this legislature, in cooperation with the Regions, to address soil pollution caused by liquid fuels for heating purposes. We have already started the dossier with the meeting of the comprehensive Inter-Ministerial Conference on Environment on 12 November 2014. At that meeting, the Federal Government and the Regions agreed to the following action plans. Firstly, the Flemish Region will reactivate the working group in order to evaluate the current draft text of the cooperation agreement. Secondly, consultation with the oil sector will take place. Thirdly, depending on the above assessment and the consultation, where appropriate, the necessary adjustments will be made. Finally, the commitment foresees that the cooperation agreement will be approved in the course of 2015 by the regional and federal governments in order to quickly lead to the creation of a fund for the clean-up of soils polluted by liquid heating fuels. I shall now have the task of the working party carried out. After that, I am always prepared to answer your questions in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u126	Madam Minister, it is indeed important that we take such an important step forward in the dossier in 2015. It remains difficult to explain that the file has dragged on for so long. However, I note that you have absolutely the intention of removing the dossier. We will continue to support you in this, so that we can make a significant breakthrough, both in the north and in the south.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u127	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Martin Giesen, director of Dils-Energie that you most probably know, explained on 20 January that the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 is a more costly option than the solution he put on the table of the government, which consists of the creation of a new 920 MW gas plant, that is more than Doel 1 and Doel 2 combined. With an investment of 500 to 600 million, less than all the assumptions currently mentioned for the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2, the option proposed by Dils-Energie offers a solution for 35 to 40 years, in other words beyond 2050. As a reminder, the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 is scheduled until 2025. Therefore, why has the government not made this choice of economic optimum? Why, when a cheaper, less risky, cleaner and more sustainable alternative existed and was on the table, did the government adopt another option? What figures and calculations may have led you to contradict those of Mr Giesen who show that the cost of the gas option is significantly lower than the option of the extension of nuclear power?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u128	Mr President, Mr Nollet, the government obviously does not close the door to a new investment in electricity generation capacity. I must not remind you that the supply of electricity will be difficult in the coming months and years, even taking into account the extension of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 nuclear power plants. The government is working to ensure electricity supply for the coming winters. As you know, this is part of my work on energy vision and energy park. I have no taboo in this matter. The solution proposed by Advanced Power, by the Dils-Energy unit, is a concrete medium- and long-term solution that could only be effective, in the best case, at the beginning of 2019. It is therefore a proposal that does not provide a solution to ensure the security of supply announced very critical for the coming winter periods, as you are not without ignoring. It is on the basis of very critical security of supply forecasts that the strategic reserve requirements for the winter of 2015-2016 now amount to 3,500 MW, 750 of which have already been contracted on the basis of the call for tenders for the 2014-15 strategic reserve. It is also because of these needs that the option of extending the Doel 1 and Doel 2 nuclear power plants, which are aimed at the short and medium term and the supply of electricity for the coming winters, has been chosen. Therefore, the medium- and long-term option proposed by projects such as Dils-Energie and a mandatory short- and medium-term option for security of supply in the particular context we know should not be opposed. They are complementary. In the short term, the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 is difficult to avoid. It will in any event be subject to prior compliance with the AFCN regulations and to the conclusion of an agreement between those units and the Government. For the surplus, it is recalled that the youth investments necessary to extend the life of existing nuclear units will be financed exclusively from private funds. The question of the ideal energy mix, i.e. the most appropriate in terms of competitiveness, price-cost and security of supply, as well as sustainability, will be subject to a wide-ranging debate in the framework of the elaboration of the energy vision and the inter-federal pact, as provided for in the current government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u129	Mr President, Madam Minister, I understand that the door is not closed – it would be a climax – for the medium and long term, as well as to bring this project into the next capacity. You are right to say that such a project is not for next winter, it is clear. Nevertheless, the investment that is your choice, that of extending Doel 1 and 2, will cost more and is not the only possible response to short-term needs. As mentioned earlier with demand management, the potential identified by Sia is greater than Doel 1 plus Doel 2: we reach 1,560 MW. Let us also remember the possibilities of transit via Doel 1 and Doel 2, for the relatively short term, of option of energy production from the Netherlands. This trail is regularly recalled in our committee, but you close your eyes to this possibility and you are obsessed with justifying for Doel 1 and Doel 2 an investment of 500, 600, 700 or 800 million euros – we will see the figures later –, more expensive than other options on the lifespan. In fact, this is the only economic parameter to take into account: life-time calculation. The paradox is to affirm that this is a short term while we extend until 2025 with Doel 1 and Doel 2. Mr President, I believe that the presentation of the calculation does not take the road in view of the short- and medium-term needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u130	Madam Minister, in 2015, a number of non-profitable gas-fired power plants will be closed down. Last year two units were taken out of service, the CEEC in Seraing and the CEEC in Vilvoorde. They were also included in the strategic reserve. Gas plants seem to be the only power stations currently capable of responding to a fluctuating supply of sun and wind for technical and environmental reasons, but they are no longer economically viable. How can the government, in accordance with the coalition agreement, take action to do something about it? Is there any clarity about that? What measures do you propose? As far as prices are concerned, there has been a direct link between gas prices and oil prices in the past. That is no longer the case. Gas is now sold on the stock exchange at daily prices. However, there is still a relationship between the price of oil and the price of gas, because a large part of the gas is sold on the basis of long-term contracts, which are therefore partly linked to the price of oil. Can the falling oil price influence the gas price sufficiently so that it becomes competitive with lignite and coal in the Netherlands and Germany among others? At the beginning of last year, we adopted the draft law on the law of 26 March 2014 which provided for the possibility of establishing a strategic reserve in the event of a potential deficit. Where a risk of power shortage is detected, that reserve shall be activated. Two gas plants are currently included in the strategic reserve. The big question is, of course, how much they cost the consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u131	Mr. Chair, Minister, very simply, could you clarify the overall cost, the cost per MWh and the cost per household of activation in 2014 and estimated for 2015 of the current strategic reserve? Not the increase in the reserve but the existing reserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, as regards the difficulties encountered by gas units under current market conditions, I recall the government agreement which "shall provide for the government to take measures to improve the investment framework for the entire energy market, with a view to avoiding in an efficient and cost-effective manner the decommissioning of conventional production units, such as gas and cogeneration, which are not yet at the end of their lives as a result of modified market conditions." I continue to quote the government agreement. "This can be done through a drastic improvement in the functioning of the market, among other things by increasing the fluidity of this market and also the idea of ensuring also fair conditions of competition for production units in Belgium compared to production units in neighbouring countries. In this context, the Government will examine the desirability of establishing a new capacity mechanism in consultation with neighbouring countries in order to maintain existing capacity and to build new capacity. It will also assess the desirability of integrating foreign capacities into the Belgian network. Finally, in order to comply with European rules, the timeliness of the current call for tenders for new gas power plants will be reviewed." The government is therefore well aware of the difficulties of these units. In this regard, it is important to note that, without changing the current conditions, the construction of new gas-fired power plants, at a time when the latest and most energy efficient existing gas units do not rotate and threaten to close, would require substantial financial support similar to that provided for in the tender support mechanism for the establishment of new open cycle or combined gas cycle electricity generation plants in Belgium. In this connection, I should like to remind you that, with regard to the invitation to tender in question, the tenders remain valid until the end of March. Also, in order to prevent unprofitable units from being available only in activating capacities, I instructed Elia to increase the strategic reserve from 1 November 2015. On the other hand, as regards the need for flexible means of production, I agree with your position when you say that gas is an interesting flexibility tool. As noted on other occasions, the development of the energy vision and the inter-federal energy pact will allow the optimal energy mix to be determined, i.e. the balance between the three paradigms of security of supply, price/cost and environment according to the country's needs. It is in particular because of the need to find this balance between centralized and decentralised production tools and the need for flexibility that this pact is inter-federal and will be developed actively with the Regions. As far as flexibility tools are concerned, all the tracks are and will be examined, the strengthening of interconnections, the examination of possible capacity mechanisms for the generation of electricity via, inter alia, gas-fired power plants, the development of hydroelectric storage projects or solutions such as demand management. In answer to the second question, the logic is that priority should always be given to electricity with the most advantageous production costs. The renewable always has the beginning. Follows the depreciated nuclear. Coal-fired and gas-fired power plants only arrive at the end of the chain. For environmental reasons assessed under regional environmental permits, coal-fired power plants are no longer accepted in Belgium, as evidenced by the project to build a power plant in Antwerp with a capacity of 1 100 MW refused on environmental issues. On the other hand, prognosis about futures developments in fuel prices is risky, but producers are trying to cover themselves with long-term contracts. In response to Mr Nollet, the total cost of the 2014-15 strategic reserve amounts to EUR 42.8 million, of which EUR 5.9 million is management and development costs for Elia. For a household consuming 3,500 kWh per year, this represents an annual cost of 2.14 euros
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u133	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I didn't get the latest figures correctly, the translation couldn't follow. Could you repeat the cost of the strategic reserve?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u134	Mr President, the total cost of the 2014-15 strategic reserve is EUR 42.8 million, of which EUR 5.9 million is management and development costs for Elia.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u135	Minister, you're talking about 2014-2015. I assume, like my colleagues, that you are talking about the winter of 2014-2015. But my question was to know the cost for the winter of 2014, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the winter of 2015-2016 with your new capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u136	Mr. Nollet, we can't figure it out yet. Winter always falls between two calendar years. If you want, we can go back. We'll see if I can figure that out. It seems a bit theoretical to me because we have to do it. We are starting from what we know now in relation to the invitation to tender that I have launched.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u137	That's why I was talking about the next year's estimate. Of course, I understand the difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u138	Mr Nollet, you know the future, not me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u139	Thinking in terms of estimated cost is not a mistake. It is necessary to be able to estimate rather than wait for things to happen and then calculate them after the fact. It's a tip.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u140	Mrs Dierick, would you like to add or replicate something?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u141	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. We are indeed facing enormous challenges. The figures of the number of gas-fired power stations that are closing push us to the facts, namely that we need an approach based on a detailed long-term vision. I hope that all the slopes will be considered, as laid down in the coalition agreement. I also hope that we can work quickly on an energy vision and an energy pact.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u142	Mr President, Minister, the Management Unit of the North Sea Mathematical Model has delivered positive environmental advice for the construction of the Mermaid offshore wind farm. It also provides a limited space for so-called wave energy converters. At present, this remains very limited, but this technology offers potential for further development in the future. In the past, with regard to support, in Article 7 of the Act on the organisation of the electricity market, we have included a number of provisions concerning installations for the extraction of energy from the wind at sea, including the submarine cable. There are no clear provisions for tidal or mixed projects. During the discussion we had at the time with one of your predecessors, Mr Magnette, we proposed to anticipate this in order to be ready for and take into account this kind of energy production at sea. At that time it was said that it was far too early and that the need for it did not yet exist. We are now finding that technology is evolving faster than our legislation and that perhaps we should pay attention to that. Madam Minister, first of all, does the arrival of wave power converters mean that things have to change in legislative terms, including cable? Secondly, does the current regulation create problems in developing this form of renewable energy? Thirdly, what opportunity is there after providing an appropriate regulatory framework? I am thinking specifically of Article 7 of the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u143	Mr President, Mr Wollants, the legal framework set out in Article 7 of the Act on the organisation of the electricity market should be extended to other forms of offshore renewable energy. As far as the cable is concerned, aid measures are provided for the connection of each domain concession, regardless of whether this concession involves windmills or also wave energy or other convectors. The framework for certificates of origin guarantee and green electricity certificates for electricity produced currently covers wind energy but could easily be extended to other forms of offshore renewable energy. However, the Mermaid project leader has not yet made the request, as his combined wind and wave energy project is only scheduled for around 2018, as the wave-motor converters are currently only at the prototype stage. Also, it is not clear at all that these machines are commercially available, and in large numbers, even in 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u144	Madam Minister, we owe it to investors and, in fact, the whole country to be ready for this at the moment. We must be able to effectively ensure that this technology can be installed here when the technology is ripe. The fact that questions are already being asked by investors shows that they are working on them, not only in Belgium, but worldwide. So please let us be ready so that we do not slow down such investments. If there is a good opportunity to produce energy, rather than wind energy, we may be able to achieve a more stable system, which is to our advantage. That is where we have work on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u145	Mr. President, Minister, we have talked a lot about securing a number of our buildings and strategic places in our country. I wanted to return to the strategic side of nuclear installations, on the one hand, and to other critical infrastructures, which are indispensable in Belgium from the point of view of energy supply, on the other. The Royal Decree of 17 October 2011 provides for the types of physical protection related to nuclear power plants. What have been the developments in this area and what measures are planned within the government? In France, the security of nuclear power plants is ensured by specialized platoons protecting the gendarmerie, and the National Assembly is currently considering a bill to classify nuclear power plants as "highly sensitive defence zones" and to allow gendarmes to use armed force. Our entire network – our gas plants, our coal plant or any other type of power plant, including generators, etc. – can also be fundamental. I am thinking of the entire petrochemical and refining sector. Are these critical infrastructures subject to threat analysis by OCAM? Madam Minister, is the physical protection of nuclear installations and critical infrastructure sufficient in Belgium in view of the terrorist risks, which the government has echoed in recent weeks? Have the operators of nuclear facilities already taken additional action following the crossing at level 3 of alert (serious risk), confirmed by the government in recent days? In the context of the call for the army to ensure the security of sensitive sites, is the Government considering using it to provide physical protection for nuclear installations? Has the government ever used the help of the army to protect critical non-nuclear infrastructure? Have you worked with the operators of these facilities on this? I note that I conducted a few audits at the budget level. For the physical protection imposed by the law of the CEN and IRE installations – this is not included in the text of the question and I see that you cannot answer me – the amounts related to the additional allocation of the IRE and CEN amount to zero euro. If we follow the same logic as for the physical protection of other installations, there is something to be cold in the back. I therefore look forward to your answers in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u146	Mr Wathelet, as you said, the government regularly evaluates, together with all the actors concerned, the most appropriate measures to be taken in relation to the protection of critical infrastructure, in response to any specific threat that has been identified by the specialized services of the OCAM. It goes without saying that the results of such evaluations and the resulting measures for each site concerned are confidential. In any case, I can confirm that they exist. With regard to nuclear power stations and the possible use of the army – and I would like to point out, as you do, that in France they have been protected by platoons since then – the government believes that, in this precise context, more discreet measures may prove more appropriate than the intervention of the army. In accordance with the implementation of the Act of 1 July 2011 on the safety and protection of critical infrastructure, I have notified the operators concerned of the list of sites to be assessed as such within the meaning of the Act and its implementing orders. DG Energy, as the designated sectoral authority in the energy field, in close consultation with DG Internal FPS Crisis Centre, manages the implementation aspects of this regulation. As a result of this notification, the operators concerned must take all the measures that result from it, including the establishment of a safety plan to prevent, mitigate and neutralise the risk of disruption of operation or destruction of critical infrastructure through the development of internal physical and organisational measures. In this context, there is regular consultation between each operator and the authorities, which was previously discussed. Yesterday I had the opportunity to see at the SCK-CEN what was the situation with regard to these measures. From a budgetary point of view, I can conduct an inquiry, but I am not sure that the zero figure you were talking about affects the way that this particular infrastructure – of course, I have not yet been able to visit the others – has been able to organize itself according to what I have just said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u147	Mr. Chair, Minister, I understand that a number of security measures must remain confidential. What makes me smile is that in this case, the government favours discretion and therefore the non-presence of the army. It is quite amusing but also challenging when we see the government's positions on this issue to show the army's presence in other places and to make itself strong from this presence. We must believe that the approach is quite different for securing a nuclear power plant. I note that we are asking for the presence of the army, except for nuclear power stations, for which we prefer a more discreet approach. I'll write it down. In addition, I note that for other critical infrastructure, no specific measures have been taken. You reminded the various operators of the responsibility. You also recalled that you have taken initiatives in accordance with the existing Royal Decree. There are therefore no additional measures for these critical infrastructures. I would like to remind you of the importance of these critical infrastructures, their strategic side and the impact that the fact that these infrastructures are targeted could have on the population. No further action is envisaged; I am disturbed!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u148	I didn't say that. They have taken additional measures but their specificity and content cannot be communicated. I just said I saw it myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u149	The only thing you recalled in your answer is the royal decree. I can do it too, I've read it. You said there were security measures at the SCK-CEN; there's always been some, but I haven't heard any news.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u150	We're not going to tell you! I've been told! I'll confirm that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u151	What?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u152	You're saying you didn't see any additional security measures. I'm telling you there are, but we're not going to tell you!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u153	That's not what I'm saying. You recalled the royal decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u154	Do you want a written copy of my answer? That way, things will be perfectly clear!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u155	No, I can hear! I'm trying, anyway. I say that in relation to this royal decree and in relation to the means, I see the opposite of what you say. I understand that there is an obligation or a willingness to remain confidential about the additional measures, but the only thing you recalled is that you have asked the operators to be responsible, in accordance with the Royal Decree. I know that. But I didn't hear anything else. Giving a little body to give credibility to what you're advancing, it would help! I repeat, I haven't heard anything and that is a problem for me. Finally, if you tell me that with zero euro, there's something extra, I still have a little more problem! I will therefore be asking a more specific question about the budgetary element in the near future. You can already prepare your answer!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u156	Mr. Chair, Minister, I should not remind you of the importance of seeing a number of new investments in our country. I must not remind you of our difficulty at the moment in terms of balancing on the network. I mustn't remind you of the shortage file. I guess it takes you day and night. Hence the importance once again of the tendering procedure, which in the government agreement seemed to be ruled out. You've evolved in your approach. You mentioned a certain evaluation of this tender procedure. You made a commitment that a decision on this invitation to tender would be made before the end of 2014. It's February 2015. Minister, have you ever considered the call for tenders? Is there a decision on this matter? Has there been an evaluation of the various offers? What is the result of these evaluations? Could you give us a timetable for this invitation to tender?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u157	Minister, it is true that there was some discussion in the debate on the government statement, when you said that you were questioning the call for proposals. In the policy debates and your policy notes, you said that your decision has not yet been taken. Like my colleague, I would like to return to this issue. How many candidates have shown interest in the invitation to tender? What analysis has your administration made of this? What is the content of your exchanges with the European Commission? You said there would be a problem with validity. Have you made any decisions about continuing the solicitation? If so, what are the reasons for your decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u158	Colleagues, I will answer your two questions together. My administration has received three offers from Essent NV, Delta NV and Dils-Energie NV, in the context of the invitation to tender launched by the previous government - by our colleague Mr Melchior Wathelet - for the establishment of new open cycle or combined gas cycle electricity generation facilities in Belgium in order to guarantee security of supply. These three offers were evaluated by DG Energy. I would like to tell you that, indeed, I had not committed myself - we must not pervert the words - and it was appropriate for the authority, and therefore the government, to respond to this call for tenders before 31 December 2014, you are in a very good position to know that. What happened was that, in contact with the European Commission, we realized that it needed more time. We found out, Mr.Wathelet, that 24 questions had been asked to your firm and that it had never been answered. When the European Commission saw me arrive with this file, before 31 December 2014, I was immediately served the 24 questions without an answer, asking us to answer them within a certain period of time. In this context, on 15 January, I reviewed the problem with the European Commission. The Commission is asking questions, as the idea remains to fine-tune the examination of the Commission's file in order to enable it to decide on the compatibility of the rules applicable to State aid, since the guidelines on State aid had changed in July 2014. I therefore instructed my administration to answer these questions. In addition, some appeals were filed with the Council of State. Thus, because of the questions, on the one hand, because of the remedies, on the other, to be beneficial and to place all the parties offering in strict market equality, it was necessary to extend the invitation to tender until 31 March 2015. Thus, I have asked each offeree to extend the term of validity of this contract. We did so for a period of three months beyond December 31, 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u159	Madam Minister, all the questions received from the European Commission have been answered, and we have been in contact very often on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u160	No, no. I'm sorry: the second reminder came to you in August 2014 for questions for the investigation...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u161	If I had been asked questions in August 2014 as Minister of the Interior, I assure you that I did not receive them. It's okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u162	Mr. Wathelet, this was a reminder in August 2014. So the questions had come to you before. [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u163	Excuse me, but we're not at the Café du Commerce! Mr Wathelet, you have the floor for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u164	Mr President, I hope everyone agrees that in August 2014 I was no longer Secretary of State for Energy!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u165	You were not to answer this second reminder, but you would have done better to answer the first and the questions themselves!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u166	Minister, on diligence and response...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u167	Colleagues, a little discipline! Mr Calvo, you do not have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u168	On diligence and the ability to respond, I believe that in terms of transparency and timeliness,... I will not give a lesson but at least have the courtesy not to give either! It would be easier. I am starting to get tired of your attitude, yours and that of some of your government colleagues, to continually tap on the previous government in which your political party was present! If we'd done so much bullshit, you could have at least had the intelligence to point them out and point at them! But that's not the point. I hear your response to the call for tenders, which is to ask the depositaries to postpone the procedure. I can hear that this is postponing and that there are additional requests for information. That is entirely acceptable. We will therefore rest with you this question at the end of March to see what progress is being made in the tender procedure which is currently under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u169	Minister, you are less categorical than the government statement, as this solicitation has continued well. You had completely called into question the method of your predecessors, the two ministers. We welcome the fact that you are continuing the call for tenders. That you extend it, so much the better, even if we don't have all the elements of the file. I'm still going to relay my two neighbors from behind a bit turbulent this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u170	Please don't raise them again, Mrs. Lalieux!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u171	Minister, have you answered these 24 questions posed by the European Commission? Have these questions been answered? When will the European Commission position itself against this invitation to tender so that, of course, it is known whether, by 31 March 2015, all the problems will be solved?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u172	Mrs. Lalieux, is this a sub-question in your reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u173	Mr President, try to manage the debates!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u174	I'm trying. It's not easy!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u175	Mr President, this is a sub-question. Has the Minister answered all 24 questions? What is the European Commission's attitude? When will she give her position?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u176	Minister, do you have an answer to this sub-question?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u177	Ms.Lalieux, in response, we had a deadline until February 13, 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u178	You didn't say that, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u179	Actually, I'm saying it now. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u180	Twenty-four questions. Maybe you're scared. You want to help me. Secondly, the Commission will examine the answers, possibly rest on other questions. We'll see.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u181	Mr President, I have a question about the order of business. We find here that the European Commission has asked 24 questions on the call for tenders, that there are already answers from the minister. I believe that this is an important document for the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u182	I take note of this point, but you may ask another question on this subject if you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u183	Madam Minister, for some time now the government has decided to destroy the previous government's decision on the closure of nuclear power stations and to keep Objective 1 and Objective 2 open for longer. In the meantime, it is still waiting for legislation to be amended to allow the provision of life. On January 22, Electrabel announced that the fuel was reserved for Objective 1. However, as no legislative amendment has been made so far, it is absolutely not certain that the nuclear power plant can or should remain open for longer. In addition, the operator must make the necessary investments to comply with the stress test. You and other Members of this House have also confirmed this, and that is quite obvious, I think. Investment is estimated at a minimum of EUR 600 million. With that, the manager puts the ball back in the government's camp. Electrabel's top man was very clear about this: he indicated that the company would only make the necessary investments if the plant was profitable. The pressure on the government to lower the nuclear interest rate will increase a little bit. I will not repeat everything that my fellow Members have already said about possible alternatives; we will have a great deal of opportunity to discuss them. I shall confine myself to a few questions. When will you submit the legislative amendment to allow the extension of the life span of Objective 1 and Objective 2 to Parliament? As long as the legislative change is not there, the operator cannot actually act, so what agreements have been made with him on this? What is the origin of the uranium rods intended for Objective 1? Has Electrabel already ordered the fuel for Objective 2? Do those uranium rods have the same origins?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u184	Mr President, Minister, I would like to point out that in December, Electrabel stated that it would be more transparent and more open. In doing so, did Minister Electrabel inform you of her fuel order to extend Doel 1's production? From which supplier has this order been placed? If so, can you tell us the total amount of the order and the pre-committed amount, i.e. the advance payment, if any, made by Electrabel to do so and the related terms and conditions? When is delivery planned? Is this decision reversible? If so, at what cost? Minister, I expect very specific answers to my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u185	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Council of Ministers – as I said earlier – approved, at first reading, on Friday, 6 February 2015, a preliminary draft law to deal with various energy issues, including the extension of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 reactors. This draft bill amends the 2003 Nuclear Exit Act to allow this extension until 2025. You know that the fuel elements for these two plants are specific to the latter and cannot be used in any other Belgian or foreign power plant. They are therefore manufactured specifically to the dimensions of these plants. Since the Doel 2 plant can still operate with existing fuel during the winter of 2015-2016, with a few months off during the summer, Electrabel has not yet ordered the production of Doel 2 fuel. For Doel 1 fuel, uranium will come from Synatom stocks. The manufacture and assembly of the fuel elements were entrusted to Areva. Commercial data on fuel orders are confidential and are therefore not made public. The down payment on the Doel 1 fuel element order is an important first financial commitment on the part of Electrabel. If these Doel 1-specific fuel assemblies were not to be used, they should be dismantled. The costs of these very costly operations would, of course, be in addition to the manufacturing cost already incurred by Electrabel. If you don't mind, I'll give you a little anecdote. As you have seen, I spoke to Mr Calvo last Thursday in plenary. I had responded to the request of La Libre Belgique, which was celebrating its 100th anniversary. I wanted to make a self-deterior sentence, three degrees. Only, as in the rockets that go into space, I missed two floors: the first in which I said "Everything is fine...", the second in which I said "Electrabel plays transparency:" and the third, which was said, and which says "Jean-Marc Nollet and Kristof Calvo leave politics to enter the board of directors of Electrabel, that is where they will be able to learn about the money invested in the fuel control, the way the fuel is configured, the delivery of this fuel to which they will be able to attend". I said that all this was a sustainable energy pact at last!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u186	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u187	Mr. Secretary, are you serious? Was that your answer? Was that the answer to the questions I asked you? You can't be serious. Are you kidding me? You tell an anecdote in a hundred years' time La Libre Belgique, while I ask you how nuclear interest will be settled. Madam Secretary, that is truly scandalous. I've been here all afternoon. You play all kinds of games. I can still take that. However, in such a way answers to a question from a member of the committee with something of an answer for two other members, is really not all right. I don't accept that. Mr President, I would like my displeasure to be noted as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u188	This will be noted in the full report, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u189	Mr President, I fully understand the point made by my colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u190	Especially since I've already answered long and wide, but I'm going to do it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u191	I asked you if that was your answer, minister. You said yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u192	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u193	There is an order of business, an answer has been given by the Minister. A reply was given by Ms. Temmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u194	Mr President, I agree with my colleague's remark. Pretexting confidentiality on these elements is once again entrusting all the responsibility and decision-making power to a private actor who, on the other hand, had committed himself to be more transparent and more open. You're humorous. They make accounts and they know how to count. Indeed, for them, the first part of your answer to La Libre, "everything is fine", is reality for them. For them everything's fine, it's the only thing that's clear in this case. For the rest, you hide behind this privacy that does not have to be. It is a decision that commits several hundred million euros. This will have an impact on the citizen's bill. This will be translated into legislation in a bit of time. Will this legislation also be confidential? Do you have to do our meetings in camera because we're talking about nuclear power? It's all right for Electrabel. This could have been published in headlines in La Libre.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u195	Mr. Nollet, I assure you. I'm only humorous with you and Mr. Calvo. To Mrs Temmerman, I am going to answer exactly the same thing as before to Messrs. Nollet and Calvo. There is a draft bill that was tabled on the government table on February 6, 2015 at first reading. I see that some colleagues have listened. An urgent opinion has been requested from the Council of State, because we believe that security of supply is an important thing. The Council of State has the intellectual means to give an opinion urgently contrary to what some think. The opinion of the Council of State will be evaluated. Eventually, we will amend this bill. We will proceed, if necessary, to a second reading in the Council of Ministers before in this same committee of which you are a member there is a review of this bill in March according to your order of business. You will link to this, to my great pleasure, the hearing of various people concerning the Doel 1 and 2 nuclear framework. This is the first of your questions. I can read them again if you want. What appointments did I make with the operator?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u196	Minister, it is better to answer the question after it has been asked. Not in the line.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u197	She says I didn't answer her questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u198	You had time to answer it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u199	I'd already answered it before.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u200	Whatever. It's better to answer it at the right time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u201	Mr President, until now the parliamentarian had the last word. I believe that the Rules of Procedure have not changed. Maybe first Mrs. Temmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u202	Mr President, I will be very brief. Madam Secretary, this is a matter of basic courtesy. I didn't interrupt you. You interrupted me. May I remind you of that? Elementary courtesy and respect for Parliament and Members assume that you answer their questions. That's not being silly while you're in the front seat as a minister. It's about basic courtesy and respect for each other. That's what I understand underneath. Maybe you should think about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u203	Mr President, if I asked to be able to reply again after the Minister's intervention, it is because I find this second intervention to be rude to the Council of State. To say he's intellectually capable of analyzing a piece of legislation in five days. The problem is not here. The problem is that by working and forcing the Council of State to work in 5 days, you deprive it not of intellectual means but of legal means. His analysis is limited and strictly limited as if you had something to hide from a legal point of view in the assembly that is under way. That's where the problem is. And you throw that away by talking about intellectual problems. This has nothing to do with it. This has to do with the legal capacity of the Council of State in such situations. That is what I wanted to say, Mr. Chairman, in the face of the new element that the minister brought.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u204	Mr President, I will do you a favor and be very brief. That will also make it very easy for you, Madam Secretary. What are the consequences of the decision to extend the lifespan of Objective 1 and Objective 2 for the tear-out plants Objective 3 and Tihange 2?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u205	Mr President, Minister, Electrabel has just announced a new postponement – I insist on the new word – of the unavailability of Doel 3 and Tihange 2. Should I recall that the micro-cracks were discovered in the summer of 2012? Don't you think that for such a sensitive case, not being able to give the slightest credible and reliable explanation in three years of research is at least challenging? Is it not appropriate to put an end to, and at the very least to set a deadline for, this bad scenario of suspense? As a reminder, following the second stop, the results were due to arrive on June 15, 2014! On August 21, Electrabel announced – for the time being, it was not confidential – that the tests were progressing well and that the results would be known in the fall of 2014. We then moved from fall 2014 to April 1, 2015! How will you react if, in July 2015, Electrabel asks for a new extension? Are you going to play humor with them? Is everything going to be all right? What are the precise and new elements that prompted Electrabel to communicate on January 23rd – I insist on that date – that the unavailability of Doel 3 and Tihange 2 was postponed from the beginning of April to the 1st July 2015? I do not understand and I do not see in this communication what the new elements are whereas on 15 December last, a month before, the date of unavailability was still set for 1 April 2015. What happened from December 15 to January 23?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u206	In view of the problems relating to security of supply, the risk of short-term electricity shortage and the high uncertainty surrounding the re-launch of the reactors Objective 3 and Tihange 2, the Government has decided to immediately extend the reactors Objective 1 and Objective 2 for a period of 10 years, without exceeding the duration of operation of those reactors in 2025. The timetable for the cessation of Objective 3 and Tihange 2 and thus the end of electricity production remains unchanged, namely on 1 October 2022 and 1 February 2023. You are aware that the re-use of the nuclear power plants we are discussing is particularly complex and that the economic interests at stake are extremely important. I have already pointed out on many occasions that the government is committed to the independence of AFCN and that it wants AFCN to take all the time necessary to analyse this issue calmly with the support of a panel of international experts and thus ensure the safety of our nuclear power plants. I have complete confidence in the seriousness and quality of the Agency's analysis and I do not think that, even if you were on the board of directors, Mr.Nollet, you would know when Doel 3 and Tihange 2 would finally return to the circuit, since it is AFCN that has the answer to this question and does not have to give any timing to anyone. As a market actor, producer and supplier of electricity, Electrabel must meet a number of binding requirements and obligations under EU Regulation REMIT 1227/2011, including the need to publish a number of information to the electricity market in a transparent manner, such as periods of unavailability of these production units. This is what we can read on our website. As a producer of electricity in Belgium, it must also inform Elia of all periods of unavailability of these production units. Electrabel may choose at any time to communicate in the same manner as it considers appropriate to communicate. But I repeat that it is not Electrabel who decides, it is AFCN!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u207	Mr President, let us be clear with the minister! Either she doesn't understand the questions she is asked, or she hides elements in her answer! I'm not talking about the Federal Agency here. But you answer, Madam Minister, that "the Federal Agency has decided...". The latter is not involved in this matter. There is an autonomous and own communication from Electrabel on January 23rd, which says to postpone the date of reopening of Doel 3 and Tihange 2 until July 1st, 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u208	It is possible that Doel 3 and Tihange 2 will be reopened. And it's never until after decisions have been made by the AFCN!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u209	My question was precise!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u210	My answer is precise! I answered!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u211	My question was specific. Between December 15 and January 23, what's new – and I'm looking at the decisions of the AFCN, there's none! – which leads to the postponement by Electrabel of the reopening of the said plants in July, whereas on 15 December it announced it for the month of April? What is this new element? Your silence is deafening!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u212	I answered the question: address the AFCN, which is under the responsibility of Mr Jan Jambon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u213	I have visited the AFCN website, which is just as public, but I note that this body has not brought anything new. Between December 15 and January 21, you do not provide any explanation. You're rejecting responsibility for the Federal Agency. But it was Electrabel alone who decided. That's amazing!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u214	Mr President, my frustration about not answering the questions is not getting any less, but it is getting worse. We must consider the way in which the Minister deals with the questions. Madam Minister, once again we did not get an answer to the questions. I would have asked a very simple question, however, and I did not even give an introduction, and you simply answer the opposite. I didn't ask about Objective 1 and Objective 2 at all; I asked about the consequences for Objective 3 and Tihange 2 and you answered about Objective 1 and Objective 2. Madam Minister, either there is a translation problem or, as the honourable Member has said, you refuse to look at a number of issues or answer a number of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u215	Mr President, I have just said it, between the soup and the chips, in order of order, but I invite the Minister to think carefully, because there is a problem now. I have not been in Parliament for long, but I have been able to compare a little. The way in which the Minister has answered the questions in the last two hours is really du jamais vu. I do not know if it has just been included in the report, but I would like to repeat this in any case to make sure that it is included in the report. I really want to invite the Minister to think about it, because I do not think this is a good way to work. In the hope that you will immediately show that it can be otherwise, that is our mantra too, I have another question about the MYRRHA project, about which I already questioned you on 6 January. The project was initially estimated at 960 million euros. According to documents under the Juncker plan, it was eventually EUR 1.5 billion. You explained why at the committee meeting in January. However, there was something to do about the increase. The Nuclear Energy Study Centre has also responded, through Mr Aït Abderrahim, the project leader of MYRRHA, on the distribution key of the project. Initially, the key was fixed at 60% of external investment and 40% of Belgian investment. Mr Abderrahim noted in De Tijd that this 40% is not a fixed rule, but, I quote, the minimum that a host country must contribute. If we want jobs and investment here, we have to finance it ourselves. Other countries will not do that for us. The 40/60 key was actually placed on the slope. I therefore have a number of questions about MYRRHA. If MYRRHA is realized, will you hold on to 40% in the context of the wider project? If not, how do you wish to finance the additional costs? I would remind you that no funding has been allocated to MYRRHA in the federal budget at the moment. Waarom tekende België de Joint declaration on the security of supply of medical radioisotopes van de OESO en het Nuclear Energy Agency niet? What impact does non-signing of the statement have and what is the relationship with the MYRRHA project in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u216	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in my answer to your question of 5 January last, I gave you a lot of details on how we had resulted in an amount of EUR 1,500 million in value 2014 for the MYRRHA project. I would remind you that this amount is an envelope that contains a margin of security for possible future unforeseen events. As a general rule, in international major research infrastructure projects, the host country must always contribute to the largest part of the financial needs, since it is undoubtedly one of the largest beneficiaries in terms of the economic benefits generated by the project. In 2010, the then government chose to set the Belgian contribution in MYRRHA at 40%. Although this amount is not engraved in marble, I do not see in the current state of the case of reason to change the importance of the Belgian contribution in MYRRHA, a very beautiful project. In fact, I understand that you visited the SCK-CEN and that you were told about it on January 26th. Various elements have already been taken into account by Belgium. As regards the joint declaration on the security of supply of radioisotopes for medical use, Belgium has always supported the principle of full cost recovery, i.e. full cost recovery, in order to ensure the economic viability and long-term security of the supply of radioisotopes for medical use. Belgium is one of the founding members of the High Level Group of the Nuclear Energy Agency (NEA) and the European Radioisotope Supply Observatory. Nor will I remind you that Belgium is one of the world's leading players thanks to the combined know-how of SCK-CEN and IRE. The ENA formally requested Belgium's signature in a letter to our Ambassador at the end of May 2014. The previous government did not wish to sign this statement during the current business period. I took this back when I joined the government and worked closely with Mrs. Maggie De Block. We have asked our respective administrations to submit to us for signature, as soon as possible, this joint declaration on the security of supply of radioisotopes for medical use to be transmitted by our Permanent Representation to the OECD at the NEA. I hope I have reassured you of the government's intentions in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u217	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I note that you agree with the logic that a greater contribution from Belgium would not be justified. You say that the host country must understandably pay for any additional costs. I dispute that and, above all, I dispute the added value of the project. I would like to invite you to think very carefully and urgently sit around the table with the Study Centre. In our view, you should point out that the future of the Study Centre is not in the development of the MYRRHA project or research into fourth generation nuclear reactors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u218	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dedecker's 1810 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u219	Madam Minister, we have discussed the strategic reserve a number of times today. However, let us now focus on its essence. Next winter you want to increase the strategic reserve to 3 500 megawatts, the quadruple of the current level. Today, 850 megawatts have been contracted, and we know that some non-nuclear power stations, accounting for about 1 600 megawatts, will close between this and next winter. Together, this generates about 2 500 megawatts of strategic reserves, should we contract all those power stations. It is also said that the Luxembourg Twinerg power station, accounting for 350 megawatts, would be eligible to participate in the strategic reserve because it is located within the Belgian control zone. This means that we are still a long way away from the 3 500 megawatts you want to go to and which you consider necessary. We know, however, that the strategic reserve does not necessarily consist of production alone. Question management is also a very clear possibility. We also know that demand management is already being used in Elia's regular products today. For certain reserves, Elijah already calls on it. I would therefore like to ask myself whether it is the right choice to withdraw those reserves from the market in view of the strategic reserve, given our market model. In short, we do not see very clearly today how you will end up with this 3 500 megawatt. That raises a number of questions. On what assumptions is the strategic reserve for next winter based? Do you think it's possible to effectively contract them? How do you see its composition? What types of power stations are you considering from the list of power stations to be closed? What potential for demand management do you consider to be present on the market? How many of these can be used regularly? I am referring, for example, to the tertiary reserve with a dynamic profile. How much is only accessible to the strategic reserve? Is it the intention to take demand management out of the market which could be useful and possibly set up for the strategic reserve? Can you then tell me what volume of demand management you envisage for next winter's strategic reserve? Finally, do you have any idea whether the Twinerg plant could participate in the strategic reserve? After all, our obligations do not apply to a Luxembourg plant. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u220	Madam Minister, we have talked about it several times today, and I can understand why it is a little frustrating if you often have to give the same answers to different questions. However, I still have a few questions about the strategic reserve. You ordered Elijah to increase the strategic reserve significantly to 3,500 megawatts. This winter there was a strategic reserve of 850 megawatts. It was announced that several gas-fired power plants would close down in Belgium, with a capacity of about 1 600 megawatts. These could be included in the strategic reserve. In addition, demand management can, of course, be carried out. In practical terms, I have a number of questions relating to the 3 500 megawatts you have commissioned. Can you clarify exactly how you got that figure of 3,500 megawatts? Both demand management and production facilities can be part of that strategic reserve. How much is the share of production facilities and demand management in the calculation of the size of the strategic reserve? How is the question management component actually calculated? There's got to be some kind of relationship. How did you get that affair? Isn't it up to Elijah to record that affair, or is that more of a job for you? I would have liked to have clarified that. You are already announcing the need for a strategic reserve of 3 500 megawatts. However, there is still uncertainty about Tihange 2 and Objective 3. The question arises as to whether the figure will be revised if there is more news about this and if we know whether or not these plants can be restarted. What is the link between the two facts, the strategic reserve and the rebooting or non-rebooting of both power stations? I also have a question about timing. For what period is that strategic reserve established? Is that for one, two or three years? Is there any more information on that? Finally, a question about cost. We have just heard that, according to the CREG, the cost of the 850 megawatts will be EUR 2.14 per year for an average family. That was just confirmed, too. For companies that consume large volumes of electricity, this costs a lot more. I assume that the cost of the strategic reserve will also increase as the size increases. Do you have an estimate of the increase in that cost? Is that proportionate to the increase in size or how should we estimate that? One last question, that strategic reserve will increase considerably. This is also necessary because we need to be able to provide security of supply for the coming winter. The government agreement states that the government will evaluate the strategic reserve in order to align it with a possible new capacity mechanism. Is the time at which the evaluation will take place already known? I asked a lot of questions. I'm bound to get a lot of answers, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u221	Mr President, I was not sure that I had tabled my question on time. Madam Minister, the other questions have already been raised. Elia has made an assessment and several scenarios. Elijah's study is also available. That is why it was in the press that there was a substantial increase in the strategic reserve. That is why I have the following questions. Can you give a more specific answer on the state of play in the dossier? What amount of strategic reserve is being pursued now? Indeed, there are several possible scenarios. What's the most likely scenario? Which path do you choose? Madam Secretary, whatever I am curious about is the potential of demand management. About two years ago, demand management was the miracle solution here in committee. Everyone talked about it. Today, that item has been somewhat dazed and that potential is less estimated by the day. I wonder, therefore, if you would like to move towards a larger share of the strategic reserve, what share of demand management do you consider realistic? Finally, is there an estimate of cost? I now come to the assessment, on which the debate has just turned somewhat. If you provide for a substantial increase, this may also be with a clear budgeting, which I do not think is unimportant. It does not seem to me to be unimportant to give Parliament an insight into this. I thank you and look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u222	Madam Secretary, you have the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u223	Mr President, my colleague, I will try to answer all your questions. The Network Manager conducted a probabilistic analysis for the coming winter period as well as an estimate for the next three winter periods. So, contrary to what has been said, estimates have been made. As a working hypothesis, DG Energy only considers the generation of electricity directly injected into the transmission system and retained as a peak demand. I refer here to the critical situation of 17 January 2013. Although the models used by DG Energy and the TSO differ fundamentally, it has been found that the results obtained for the total strategic reserve required by the probabilistic model and by the deterministic model are similar. In other words, the conclusions are the same. The analysis of the Network Manager and the opinion of DG Energy are published in full on the website of the SPF Economy. A supplementary report was sent to me by DG Energy in collaboration with Elia and CREG. This report highlights the problems encountered by the producers concerned and shows that the production volume of 1,660 megawatts placed under cocon or at a standstill will be difficult to contract. The necessary additional 2 750 megawatts of strategic reserve will be assembled with production units that will no longer be available on 1 November 2015 and with demand management measures. The contracts will run over one year, except for part of that volume of 2 750 megawatts, between 300 and 500 megawatts, which will come exclusively from production and for which a period of two years will apply. A volume between 2,250 MW and 2,450 MW will therefore consist of production and demand management. Candidates' offers will be dealt with in a transparent and non-discriminatory manner. The current mechanism involves retaining demand offers on the basis of an estimate of the future consumption profile. It should be noted that the current mechanism encourages the development of consumer erasures by paying for initial investments. The volume of 2,750 MW will be modified only if the Federal Nuclear Control Agency decides before 30 June 2015 the reactivation of the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 nuclear units. As I said before, she's the one who decides. [[I may say it again, but be it!]] In this case, a new invitation to tender will not be organised, but the necessary volumes will be selected from among the proposals submitted in the context of this invitation to tender. In this revised volume, part of 300 to 500 MW will also have to come exclusively from production and will be contracted for two years. It will be difficult to contract the volume of 2 750 megawatts. I have therefore asked my administration to examine new ideas in order to cope with the short-term shortage of capacity. Within the working group, the focus was on the installation of additional resources for maximum production. For the tertiary reserve, a volume of 261 megawatts is reserved for demand management and a volume of 100 megawatts is reserved for the dynamic profile. For the supplementary strategic reserve, only a volume of 300 to 500 megawatts is reserved for production and contracted for two years. The balance will compete between production and demand management. Twinerg announced the cocooning of its power plant from October 1, 2015. It turns out that Twinerg is under the conditions to submit an offer as part of the 2015-2016 Strategic Reserve and intends to do so. The total cost of the 2014-2015 strategic reserve is 42.8 million euros, of which 5.9 million management and development costs for Elia. For a household that consumes 3 500 kilowatt hours per year, this represents an annual cost of 2.14 euros. I therefore ask the honourable Member to refer to the CREG report of 1 February 2015 on tariffs. In view of the increasing need it is expected that the tariff will increase in the future, all the more in line with the availability of the reactors Objective 3 and Tihange 2. Furthermore, I would remind you that the CREG has been instructed to verify the clearly unreasonable nature of the tenders received by Elijah. This question seems to refer to the possibility desired by some players in the demand market to offer their erasure capacity to Elia the day before, depending on their possibilities. It is a mechanism still different from the strategic reserve as conceived in the electricity law. The strategic reserve is designed in this law to compete with the maintenance of power plants and the capacity to erase consumption. To this end, they are dealt with in a joint annual tender for production and demand. This call for tenders is governed by the constitution procedure published by Elia and the rules approved by CREG. It also follows the same European procedures that Elia uses for her annual reserve purchases. This process is therefore transparent and competitive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u224	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. There's still some work to be done. We have just discussed the list of power stations to be closed, which could possibly be included in the strategic reserve. However, there are also power stations that are less easy to use, especially for a longer period of time. For example, a number of CHP plants are included in the list. If these are addressed, the question arises as to what happens to the heat, which is no longer in fact a question because of the operators who had those plants built for it at the time. There are also some turbojets, which are well suited for the short term, but which cannot be used in the same way as, for example, a CEEC plant or an open cycle gas plant. So that would cause problems. So you are right to say that it will not be easy. With regard to demand management, we need to think carefully about how we deal with it. Demand management can play on different levels, both in the classic model and in the strategic reserve. After all, if we were to withdraw too much from the regular package, we would have to use the strategic reserve more quickly and vice versa. We must therefore be attentive to this. I also note that the decision on the strategic reserve must be taken this summer. We must then set out the amount of the strategic reserve. We will have to follow and allocate this route, because we cannot, of course, wait until just before winter to make decisions about the power stations that are now closed down. That makes things somewhat difficult. I look forward to further developments in this area. I will read your answer carefully and see how I can place certain information in a global context. After all, it is absolutely not evident to keep the light on in the current situation. Mr Temmerman just said that we crawled through the eye of the needle, while Mr Vande Lanotte once said that it was all an anxiety psychosis. That is an interesting change of position. We will all have to do everything we can to get through this crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u225	Mr President, Minister, I can only confirm that we are facing very great challenges to keep our security of supply under control. If 1 600 megawatts are shut down, we can't just catch them. It is therefore a good thing that estimates are already being made to determine how much strategic reserve we would need in a worst case scenario. They're talking about 3,500 megawatts. It will not be easy to fill that out, even if we can force the power stations to participate. Another option is demand management, which we absolutely must maximise. We need to find out how much we can collect. In this respect, I repeat my previous call for emergency groups to be included, which we believe are still able to fill in an important aspect of the strategic reserve. The coalition agreement states that we must take initiatives to remove these thresholds. I hope that this can also be done on the basis of this strategic reserve and I hope that this can help. I would also urge that costs should be monitored. Security of supply is important, but the cost is also important. We know the cost of 850 megawatts, but it will be more as it involves 3 500 megawatts. We must also try to keep an eye on the cost to families and businesses. Another aspect is our energy standard, which will also have an important impact. So there's work to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u226	Madam Minister, this question is somewhat in line with the subject we have just discussed, but it is a little wider. In the specialist press, Febeliec, the consumer organisation for large customers of energy, presents a critical note concerning the energy prices for the category to which its members fall. I quote briefly: "The federal contribution to electricity has increased. The federal contribution to natural gas has even doubled. The exemptions from excise duties on natural gas for companies which have signed a covenant have disappeared. And the strategic reserve is getting four times bigger, all of which costs money. We have set a number of clear ambitions in our coalition agreement. For example, we are aiming for an energy standard to protect the purchasing power of families and businesses, with specific attention to the companies with an energy-intensity consumption profile. We have also committed ourselves to reducing the federal contribution to gas and electricity. Madam Secretary, do you agree with the effects that are currently being seen for members of Febeliec, among others? Is that what the Federation's assertions are about? When do you intend, together with the Regions, to be able to implement the energy standard? What other measures are you preparing to counter the trend of rising energy prices? With regard to the strategic reserve, can you clarify the impact of the mechanism on electricity prices? In fact, we have dealt with this a great deal in previous questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u227	Madam Minister, I will not give the introduction anymore, because Mr Wollants has done well. Do you have any idea how much the handicap of our industrial companies vis-à-vis companies in our neighbouring countries depends on the amount of electricity they consume? It says in the coalition agreement that we must work towards an energy standard, in cooperation with the Länder. Have you got eyes on the working method? How will you deal with this in concrete terms? Has there been any consultation with the Länder or the sector? Is there any more clarity about the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u228	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I only have an answer in French. I am powerless to translate that directly into Dutch. The total cost of the strategic reserve, which has been fairly repeated, is EUR 2.14/MW for citizens. You asked the question earlier, Mrs Dierick, about companies. We can do this: we are here in the field of competitiveness. Before I begin the answer to your questions, I must point out that I met with representatives of Febeliec a few days ago, who obviously made me aware of this acute situation, which must be resolved as quickly as possible. For the coming winters, in view of the increased need for strategic reserve, we can expect the cost of strategic reserve to increase further – and more, of course, depending on the lack of availability of Doel 3 and Tihange 2 reactors. I am aware that this cost is a challenge for Belgian industry and its competitiveness. High energy prices discourage investors and increase the risk of plant closure, with more attractive competitiveness in neighbouring countries such as France, Germany and the Netherlands. This would lead to a very easy relocation for companies. Believe me, I am making every effort to limit the contribution to be made by the Belgian industry so that it can maintain its competitiveness. Demand management measures should be strongly promoted and developed, both in transport networks, for large industrial consumers, and in regional distribution networks, for SMEs. In this regard, I will be careful to ensure that the analysis of the bids received following the invitation to tender for the establishment of the strategic reserve for the coming winters takes account of this situation and that these proposals are dealt with in a transparent and non-discriminatory manner towards businesses. Additional measures as well as additional income, in the form of capacity remuneration, may be necessary in order not to deteriorate the investment climate and undermine the adequacy of the means of production and, therefore, security of supply over time. Consideration has already been given to the subject within the CREG. A report drawing up recommendations for the establishment of such a mechanism, as envisaged and sometimes already carried out in neighbouring countries, should be transmitted to me by the end of March. On the other hand, my administration has sent me another report that contains some leads that can help complete or close the capacity gap in the near future. The focus of this working group was on the implementation of additional advanced production and service requirements. The strategic reserve is a short-term solution considered as a transitional measure - I repeat - pending investments with the necessary flexibility. Nevertheless, the establishment of the strategic reserve mechanism contributes to security of supply by providing the TSO with agreed production capacity and by enabling the development of such capacity. As regards the weight of the cost of setting up this strategic reserve for industry, I do not exclude the introduction of a degression for this overload, as has been applied for the offshore. It goes without saying on the part of companies that efforts must also be made to anticipate these developments by, in particular, improving the energy performance of their installations. They must identify, in their installations, the problematic consumptions. Finally, I would like to point out that, in general, it is the entire European industry that faces reduced profit margins, in the context of rising energy costs, and that the European Commission is looking at how to meet these challenges and ensure a better future for European industry as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u229	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You are indeed aware of the problem and you are aware of the consequences for the position of our companies. I am pleased because we know that, in times of crisis and high energy prices, international companies are often the first to join us. Let me give you the example of Nyrstar. The first country where zinc production stopped was Belgium, where production was the most expensive. So we need to look at how we can take action. I think that the degressivity is an interesting path to follow within the framework of the strategic reserve. That's a cape we're gonna have to take anyway. We also know that another mechanism must be put in place that will remain in place in the long term and that will provide the necessary capacity for us. The production volumes of closed power stations can be placed in a strategic reserve. We cannot allow new power stations to be built to put them in. We absolutely must take that into account. The question arises as to whether large energy consumers can indeed respond to the degressivity. We will also have to look at initiatives at regional level. I am thinking in Flanders of the audit agreement and the benchmarking agreement. A number of steps have already been taken. The coalition agreement also states that we want to support these energy agreements. We will certainly have to go down that road. I will keep a close eye on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u230	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Federal Energy Ombudsman is calling for wider access to the social tariff for electricity and natural gas. The Committee recommends that this right be granted to all beneficiaries of increased intervention in the framework of their health insurance and to persons in collective debt settlement or using a debt management support service. Electricity and gas are basic necessities without which a household cannot live properly. It is therefore essential to maintain and, where appropriate, strengthen the mechanism of the social tariff. Minister, will you propose to the government to implement the Ombudsman's recommendation on extending access to the social tariff? Can you detail the motivations behind your position? What would be the cost of this enlargement?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u231	Minister, my question is about the same object, but the angle of approach is different. Ms Lalieux took the approach of a recommendation from the Ombudsman on energy. For my part, I ask the question from the perspective of persons with disabilities and the Disability Branch. Indeed, the press reported that many people complained to their Directorate-General that some energy suppliers were threatening them not to apply the social tariff if they did not receive a paper certificate within a certain period of time. The question that arises is that of automatic granting of social rights, a question that is very close to my heart and on which I have worked a great deal in the past. For the most vulnerable, the most disadvantaged or vulnerable, the granting of social rights must be, to the extent possible, automatic in order to avoid them from carrying out procedures. In fact, they often do not know their rights or this kind of approach is difficult for them. Finally, these rights, which fall under various laws, must be directly applied to them. In accordance with the procedure, the Directorate-General for People with Disabilities collects the information it initially transmits to the SPF Economie, which transmits it to energy suppliers who automatically apply the social tariff. It is not the situation found that is the subject of recrimination. Indeed, the Director-General indicated that many complaints had been identified because some suppliers would not register the national register number of persons holding the certificate of disability. In so doing, the data are considered not to have been transmitted. We're on time for electronics. It's about e-government. There are electronic flows of information exchange such as the Bank-Carrefour of Social Security, the control of social data. Why not have an exchange of data with energy suppliers by electronic feed rather than by sending this paper certificate? If you have to go through it so that people have their rights, either! What is at the heart of this debate is the fact that the government and the administrations really implement the automaticity of the granting of rights, in particular, in this case, by electronic exchange. Minister, have you had the opportunity to discuss this with your colleague in charge of persons with disabilities, Mrs Sleurs? Ms. Sleurs said that "energy suppliers have no right to hunt people with disabilities who can benefit from the social tariff". Do you share your colleague's point of view? Have you ever had contact with energy suppliers about this? What measures are being taken by you and your colleague, together with the SPF Economy, to better protect vulnerable customers and guarantee them access to the social tariff, preferably automatic access. Otherwise, we take a step backwards. There have been advances in automation. In this case, we step back!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u232	Mrs Lalieux, the categories of people eligible for the social tariff for electricity and gas have been carefully defined in the past. It is clear that these categories do not cover all families or individuals who experience financial difficulties in paying their energy bills. The assessment of the social tariff for gas and electricity is provided for in the government agreement. The social rate and conditions for access will therefore be assessed with a view to improving the functioning and effectiveness of this system. As part of this overall assessment, the question of possible enlargement to other categories of beneficiaries will of course be addressed. Therefore, the recommendation of the Federal Ombudsman for Energy will be taken into account. It is clear that in case of enlargement to these categories of households or persons, the aim is that the social rate be automatically granted to them as far as possible. I would like to inform you that we have met with the Federal Ombudsman. We are well aware of the various categories of complaints that he receives and of his requests. With regard to the cost of such an enlargement, it is not possible to calculate or estimate it until the overall evaluation exercise has taken place. The data required to estimate this cost are not held by the Energy Branch. But this does not mean that we are not going to try to do it. As soon as I have some ideas on the evaluation, we can talk about it again. Mr Delizée, you were indeed talking about Mrs Sleur's letter addressed to me and the contacts I would have had as a result. This letter, dated 26 January, came to me on 3 February, the day before your question. In order to have a transparent view of the situation, I need to analyse the various aspects of this letter. If the existence of a communication problem is real between customers and their supplier – and I believe it is – it is, of course, totally unacceptable. I share your point of view. It will be necessary to consider how to address this issue. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the maximum social energy prices are also a competence of my colleague Mr Kris Peeters, who has the Economy in his remit. In addition, there will be a need for consultation between these two firms. I've already mentioned that an analysis is under way. Therefore, an immediate initiative vis-à-vis energy suppliers, even if their behaviour is unacceptable, is somewhat premature, because I need ammunition, arguments to be able to contact them and start working with them. However, my administration, the Energy Branch, has not seen any increase in complaints about such a problem. It has confirmed the existence, since 2010, of agreements on the circulation of paper certificates between social institutions, network providers and the SPF Économie. Indeed, social customers, in the event that the automatic application of the social tariff is not possible, receive in the second quarter of 2015 a paper certificate from the SPF Directorate General People with Disabilities; you have known it well. This certificate must be sent to their supplier in order not to lose their protected customer status. After these shipments, if the supplier has not received the 2015 certificate, he can still apply to his customer. This happens in this way because the SPF Economy does not receive all the information necessary for the application of the social tariff automatically for all entitled persons, as you have pointed out. At present, it is the Banque-Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale that manages the information. The FPS Economy, on the basis of the legal framework, as well as the Commission for the Protection of Privacy, allow us to consult the database. This consultation is only permitted where the FPS Economy has identified a reference person, who is the holder of one or more electricity and/or gas contracts. If this identification is not carried out, the SPF Economy will not receive any information from the Banque-Carrefour and the Bank-Carrefour will later forward the list of unidentified rightholders to the social institutions in order to issue these persons with a paper certificate to be given to their supplier. So this is a rather Kafkaian circuit, as you described it. But this is the current functioning of the social tariff, which certainly needs to be remedied. With regard to the use of National Register numbers by suppliers, the law does not oblige them to claim the National Register from their customers, but the SPF Economy has been strongly encouraging this addition for several years, with success for those who do. More and more suppliers can transmit the National Register of their customers to the FPS Economy. This has an impact, although limited, but positive on the number of beneficiaries of the social tariff automatically. I would also like to point out that not all suppliers are in a position to request the National Register of their customers. This is only possible subject to the establishment of a proper security file, approved by the Privacy Commission. So the suppliers have to move. It is not always obvious to have all the conditions in place for the file to be approved. In the current mechanism, the full application process, including sending home the paper certificates for files for which automation has not worked, ultimately guarantees, but a little late doubt, that each entitled person will benefit from it without having to take the initiative to benefit from it. In exceptional cases, the customer must still request the paper certificate himself or the supplier must contact the customer to request it. We are therefore starting from a situation in which, prior to automation, more than 400,000 paper certificates were currently sent out for 50 and 70,000 shipments. This has therefore decreased sharply. The FPS Economy continues to take active action to further reduce this number. Automation is done through a somewhat complicated process. In accordance with the federal government's program, I requested a full assessment of social rates for administration. I hope to be able to find out how we can minimize, in the future, the paper documents of the certification circuit. At the same time, I hope to find another improvement to this current mechanism, at the level of the entire process.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u233	Minister, when is the evaluation planned and when will the results be achieved?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u234	Your vais demonder.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u235	If it's in a year and a half, it's not worth it. You know how much we pay attention to the social rate and the financing of the social rate. Remember that any change in the federal contribution can undermine these tariffs and the entire system in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u236	I don't forget it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic084x.u237	Minister, I take note that, like me, you consider this practice unacceptable, because it is intended to charge the full price and to limit social rates. However, these are rights that do not date from yesterday; they have existed for a very long time. Secondly, complaints do not reach the SPF Economy or DG Energy, but the DG People with Disabilities, because it is with this administration that beneficiaries are used to working. It is to the "Black Vierge", as they say in the area, that the complaints end. The Director General indicated this by answering questions on this topic. As far as paper certificates are concerned, the issue seems to me to be automation. As you said, it still concerns thousands of shipments - at the time of electronics! If DG PH sends the recipients' contact information with their National Registry number to the FPS, the press reports well that it is the suppliers who do not register the national number and then say that they do not find their customers. There is simply an effort to make; we need a little goodwill! I am counting on the coordination of the competent ministers: you and Mrs Sleurs. Mr Peeters on pricing is something else. Let's not even talk about rates. But in any case, there must be coordination between Energy, Economy and DGs for people with disabilities to solve this problem by electronic feed, without all this paper! There is a desire to reduce the administrative burden: this is a great opportunity to do so. We're in the 21st century, let's sign up for modernity. Let us also call suppliers to order so that they do their job and automatically grant the rights to these people.
