ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, we are starting a marathon meeting. I need to let you know two things in advance. Firstly, Mrs De Block is not here because of a European meeting, but she will be there tomorrow morning to answer possible questions. I have also agreed to this with the opposition groups. Secondly, since a Conference of Presidents will take place at 12.30 a.m., we will stop work at that time and resume it at 14.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u3	Mr President, I would like to thank you for these elements of explanation of the work. As you know, as an opposition, we have no problem with Mrs De Block's absence, which was agreed upon. Nor will I go into a number of regrettable issues relating to the functioning of and discussion in committee, such as the absence of hearings or the absence of an opinion from the National Labour Council. However, I would like to ask you to submit one matter to the plenary in the context of the rules of procedure, in particular the lack of budgetary impact and the figures in this respect. I appeal to a number of recent new statements by the members of the government over the past week. The index jump with its budgetary impact is an unfair measure for us, which should not have been implemented if a tax shift had happened. We have to deal with wage costs, not wages. Several statements have been made about this unfair measure in terms of its impact. I'll run them over. Firstly, in budgetary control, the government says that this is budget-neutral. Secondly, there are the advices of the FPS Finance Department I have them with me, for the fellow Members who have lost them in the meantime, who contradict that. Thirdly, Deputy Prime Minister Peeters quoted, suddenly out of the blue, during the last discussion in the Social Affairs Committee, an opinion from the Finance Inspectorate showing that this index jump would not be budget neutral for the federal budget. This is contrary to what you and your government members, Mr Peeters, said earlier during budgetary control. We then had a debate on this in committee and in the end you did not want to make that opinion available. Now there is even a fourth and a fifth element. Mr President, our group has written a letter to the Court of Auditors asking for the budgetary impact of the index jump on the federal budget in this dossier. In the meantime, we have received an answer which I am making available to you. That reply shows that the Court of Auditors does not have any figures and a file on this matter. The fifth and last, most recent element, is the following. [[Rumor]] Ladies and gentlemen, especially for a majority who consider budgetary orthodoxy to be very important, I cannot imagine that the budgetary impact of such a measure is not important. That is why I would like to ask that the majority of my fellow Members follow closely. Mr President, last week Minister Van Overtveldt's cabinet discussed a positive budgetary impact of EUR 794 million for the federal budget in Het Laatste Nieuws and De Morgen. What is it now: is it budget neutral, is it negative, as Minister Peeters says, but on which he does not want to provide data, or is it a positive result of EUR 794 million? Mr President, that is why I have prepared an order motion in our group with Mr Nollet and Mr Gilkinet. I refer to Rule 54 of the Rules of Procedure. In our order of business, we ask that you, as President-in-Office of the Council, request the available figures. These figures seem to exist, for which I refer to the advice of the Treasury Inspectorate and the new study of the Planning Bureau. We ask that the figures available on the budgetary impact of this unjust and unnecessary measure may be on the table before we begin the parliamentary debate. Parliament's debate may be efficient, but it will certainly be interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u4	I have received an order motion from Mr Kristof Calvo, Mr Jean-Marc Nollet and Mr Georges Gilkinet, which reads as follows: "Mr President, during the committee debate on 25 March on the draft law for improving employment (DOC 960/01), the Minister for Labour, Mr Kris Peeters, referred to an opinion from the Finance Inspectorate on the impact of the index jump on the federal government budget. According to the Minister, that opinion would indicate that these long-term effects would be negative for the budget of entity I (federal government and social security). Despite the request of the Members present, Minister Peeters refused to forward the opinion to Parliament. We also did not receive any information from the Court of Auditors; it indicated that it had not looked into this dossier. In our view, regardless of whether this measure is appropriate, Parliament must have all the information it needs to be able to calculate the financial impact on the national budget, all the more so since the replies of the consulted interlocutors and institutions differ in this respect. Indeed, both in the policy statement and in the 2015 budget explanatory memorandum, the federal government initially claimed that the index jump would be budget neutral. The FPS Finance, whose analysis we had to request directly from the Court of Auditors, found that the consequences were completely different: a reduction in income from personal income tax by 970 million and an increase in income from corporation tax by 457 million. Afterwards, the Minister of Work referred to the advice of the Finance Inspectorate, which has a negative impact on entity I and a positive effect on entity II. In order for our Assembly to be able to debate this properly and with knowledge, it is necessary that these different figures are explained and that we get a copy of the advice of the Finance Inspectorate and of the budgetary information provided by the Government to the Finance Inspectorate for that advice. In view of all this, we are asking, on behalf of our group, that the government should immediately deliver to Parliament the full opinion of the Finance Inspectorate on the budgetary implications of the index jump, which Minister Peeters mentioned during the committee work of 25 March. Mr President, during the debate in committee on the draft law on employment promotion (DOC 960-001) of 25 March, the Minister of Employment, Kris Peeters, referred to an opinion of the Inspectorate of Finance on the consequences of the index jump on the federal state budget. According to the Minister, this opinion would reveal that these consequences are, in the long term, negative for the budget of entity I (Federal State and Social Security). Despite the request of the parliamentarians present, Minister Peeters refused to communicate this opinion to Parliament. Furthermore, no information could be obtained through the Court of Auditors, which indicated that it had no ongoing files on this subject. Irrespective of the advisability of such a measure, it seems to us essential that Parliament be able to have all the elements necessary to calculate the financial consequences for the State budget, especially when the answer varies according to the interlocutors or institutions consulted. In fact, as a first step, the federal government argued, both in the government statement and in its 2015 budget, that the index jump would be fiscally neutral. Secondly, the work of the FPS Finances, which we had to obtain directly from the Court of Auditors, revealed a completely different assessment. This represents a decrease of $970 million in PPI revenues and an increase of $457 million in corporate taxes. In a third stage, the Minister of Employment's comments relaying the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate, which reported a negative impact on entity I and a positive impact on entity II. In order to allow for a quality and informed debate in this House, it is necessary to clarify these figures and to obtain a copy of the opinion of the Inspectorate of Finance and of the budgetary data provided to it by the Government in order to formulate it. In view of these elements, we are asking, on this point of order and on behalf of our group, that the government table without delay in Parliament the full opinion of the Finance Inspectorate on the budgetary consequences of the index jump quoted by Minister Peeters during the committee proceedings on 25 March." All I can tell you is that I'm gonna be handling this later. In the meantime, perhaps we can start with the reports. There are three rapporteurs in the discussion of the draft law on improving employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u5	Mr President, I am not sure that you have understood the request made here. If we have tabled this motion, it is to get the numbers before we begin work. Indeed, it is essential to know the impact of the measures envisaged. The arguments have just been developed to get these figures, but you're telling us that "we'll see later." No, we want our request to be dealt with now, at the beginning of our work! We need to know what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u6	Mr Nollet, I understand very well that you are asking about the figures. I have also understood your reference to Rule 54 of the Rules of Procedure. I have here the text of the motion you tabled. Pursuant to Rule 54, I declare the motion admissible and I shall refer it to you later. The government can take the floor at any time. You know that. I shall raise the motion after the report, because that is what the Rules of Procedure say. I refer to the third paragraph of Rule 54: If the motion is declared admissible, it may be proposed at the time specified by the chairman. So I do that after the draft reports.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u7	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, given the importance of this draft law, it seems appropriate not to refer to the written report, but to give a brief summary of what was set out at the meetings of the Social Affairs Committee on 17 and 18 March 2015. There are three reporters. I will handle the procedure and the preliminary discussion of the Minister. It is then up to Mr Gilkinet. In the case of the procedure, we discussed the organisation of hearings for four hours in advance. Mr Kristof Calvo, Mrs Kitir, Mrs Onkelinx, Mr Hedebouw, Mrs Fonck, Mr Daerden and Mr Massin complained about the late submission of the draft law. They ask for the organisation of hearings on the draft law, which should be thoroughly deepened in committee. They do not understand the government's desire to have the draft law dealt with, which is neither necessary nor counterproductive. Because the draft law seriously undermines the purchasing power of the population, democratic control is essential. Ms Demir, Mr Lachaert and Mr Vercamer considered that the measures contained in the draft law were already sufficiently discussed on various issues: at the hearing on 4 February 2015 on the impact of government policies on economic growth and job creation, in the oral questions in the committee and in plenary sessions, in the discussion of policy statements and policy notes. The proposal to organise hearings was rejected by nine votes to seven. Mr Calvo and Mr Gilkinet, Mrs Fonck and Mr Hedebouw disputed the urgency and the impression of agreement from the social partners. Mr Kris Peeters, Minister responsible, referred to the introductory statement on the replies to members' questions on the urgency procedure. Due to the urgency of the matter, the government has not asked for advice from the NAR. The consultation on wage developments, including an index jump, was endorsed by eight of the ten partners. The indexing of rental prices was then discussed. Mrs Kitir asked the Minister whether he had a legal opinion on the matter. Mr Calvo refers to the debate on the indexation of wages and rents. In the absence of comparison, the nuclear cabinet has decided to seek legal advice. Mr Calvo asked where that opinion was. The Minister replied that there was no opinion on these matters other than that of the Council of State. The Minister then quotes the opinion: "Without specific rules governing prices and incomes in certain areas falling within the competence of the Communities or the Regions, the Federal Government may impose on all incomes and prices linked to a price index the link to the health index defined by it. In other words, it is about shared competences. Both the Federal State and the Regions are competent. It follows from the opinion that the Federal State remains competent when the matter relates to family income. We cannot ignore the fact that the draft law relates only to wages, bets and social allowances. The Minister stresses that the Federal State and the Regions are competent for rental prices. If the matter cannot be resolved, the Constitutional Court will decide. Then Minister Kris Peeters gives an introductory explanation. The Minister wishes to clarify six points of the draft law. First, the Minister clarifies that the urgency procedure was requested for the referral to the Council of State and for the parliamentary examination. This was necessary due to the late submission, on 22 December 2014, of the report of the Central Business Council on labour cost developments due to the late availability of international data. The launch of sectoral negotiations should be facilitated. The index jump comes because the labour cost handicap has been 2.9 % since 1996. The budgetary situation does not allow this to be remedied only with a reduction in charges. The index jump must be determined in the context of the social agreement and will mean a purchasing power effect of only 1%. Its impact is also moderated by fiscal measures and the external welfare envelope. The aim of the index jump is job creation, 33 000 jobs according to the National Bank's calculations and 28 000 according to the Planbureau's calculations. The competence for the index jump is governed by Article 6 of the Special Law on the Reform of the Institutions of 6 January 2014. The federal government is responsible for income policy and for betting and social benefits from other levels of government. The jurisdiction of the regions is not affected. In order to respect the powers of the Regions, the extent of the index jump should be limited to 2%, both in size and in time. The Council of State does not oppose the urgency procedure. The index gap thus also applies to the wagers and benefits of the Länder. With regard to the index jump and the link, it is remarkable that the health index is not currently regulated by law. A number of prices, such as those of tobacco and some energy products, are not included. The references to the price index indicated and calculated for this purpose point to the informally established concept of the health index. This is now being regulated by law. To ensure the uniform introduction of the index jump, a technique was used in which all existing index mechanisms remain in place. Only the number to which they refer changes. This method has the effect of achieving the index jump in a balanced way, without affecting existing index mechanisms. The Minister then explained that most of the provisions of the social agreement were governed by royal decree. The tax provisions on meal cheques, collective agreement 90 and the limit amount will be included in another draft law. A separate draft law on the wage standard will follow later. The level of training efforts will be maintained in accordance with the agreement of the social partners. The social agreement provides for a suspension of the mechanism in 2015 and 2016. This means that no additional efforts will be made in 2015 and 2106, but the level of training effort of 2013 and 2014 will be maintained. A number of provisions will still be settled at KB or by collective agreement. These include the equalisation of the remuneration for dismissal for career conditions, time credits and pensions and the reduction of annual leave contributions. On the basis of the agreement of the social partners, the recruitment allowance and the redundancy compensation are worked out. Saturday work is also arranged. Today 64 hours can be worked in the construction sector on Sundays. This is increased to 96 hours on an annual basis as a result of the social agreement. According to the Wage Disparity Act, the sector-by-sector analysis reports had to be ready by the end of 2014, but that work has not yet been fully completed. An extension until the end of April is therefore foreseen. Ms Maggie De Block, Minister for Social Affairs, who is present at the committee meeting, clarifies that a number of agreements of the social agreement of January 2015 will be settled. Articles 8 to 10 of the draft law give effect to certain welfare adjustment measures. This is the social contribution after retirement where the beneficiary also receives an interest on an accident at work or an occupational disease. The social contribution will be reduced from 13.07 % to 8.31 %. Measures are also being taken to block the welfare book. The law also contains agreements made by the social partners in connection with the unification of the status of workers and servants. This involves a reduction in the employer's contribution to the annual leave of employees, a different calculation of the recruitment allowance received by employees in firms undergoing restructuring and the equivalence of workers who have become employees for the calculation of the redundancy allowance. The day of care is abolished, both for the allowance and for the sickness and invalidity scheme. That is my part of the report on the work of the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be synthetic, but I would point out that it took us a long time in committee because it was necessary to debate the substance of this text. Mrs Demir has just presented some of the procedural debates that have taken place, as well as the introductory statement by the Minister for Employment and the Minister for Social Affairs. I shall now turn to the general discussion. First, there was a debate with the Minister of Social Affairs and with Mrs Kitir, Mrs Fonck, Mrs Onkelinx and myself to try to clarify the fate of family allowances in the context of this decision on index jump. Different views were expressed because parliamentarians felt that the federal majority was dealing with a transferred jurisdiction and decided on measures that would have an impact on families and children. The Minister of Social Affairs reaffirmed the competence of the federal government and the federal level of authority in this area, as well as the independence of the principle of non-indexation of family allowances with the mechanisms of the Special Financing Act and the transfer of "family allowances" envelopes to federated entities. These, according to the Minister for Social Affairs, remain free to decide whether or not to introduce compensatory measures for this index leap on family allowances. It was an important part of this debate. Subsequently, each of the members of the committee had the opportunity to intervene, beginning with Mrs Onkelinx, who was concerned about the fate of the envelope intended for structural reductions in burdens and the consequences of the index jump measure on the financing of social security. Ms. Kitir expressed concern about the decision to challenge the welfare envelope. Several other members spoke about the latter's calculation and the lack of inclusion of family allowances in the determination of the amount available for compensatory measures in favour of the lowest income. Some, such as Ms. Fonck, have denounced the federal government's variable geometry reasoning to achieve its objectives. Mrs Temmerman, for her part, indicated that it had been explicitly provided for in the Sixth State Reform that the transfer of family allowances to the Communities could not have an impact on the amount of the welfare envelope. I shall now turn to Mr Daerden's speech on behalf of the Socialist Group. He pointed out, in the context of the policy discussion, that the discussion of the bill coincided with the publication of figures showing the very important benefits of BEL20 companies. For his group, it is unfair and aberrant to weigh efforts towards a return to a balanced budget, on the sole workers and social beneficiaries. Mr Daerden, as other members subsequently did, highlighted the misleading nature of the title of the bill, concerning "the promotion of employment". He considered the reasoning of the federal majority to be incorrect with regard to the reduction of the wage gap. Various studies, including that of the Central Economic Council, point out that this gap is not as large and is naturally rectified, regardless of an index jump. Daerden believes that the government favours business and ownership to the detriment of workers. As for the compensations decided by the federal majority, Mr Daerden considered that they were false, even using the term "mensage", since the increase in the deductibility of flat-rate charges would in no way compensate for the loss of profits caused by the index jump and the resulting loss of purchasing power. Mr Daerden also referred to the urgency invoked by the government, which had prevented consultation with the social partners, believing that this was a political decision which was mainly aimed at avoiding social dialogue. The Committee is then concerned about the economic and employment consequences by expressing its fear that the index jump would cause deflation, the negative impact of which would increase Belgium's debt ratio in relation to its GDP. It also considers that this index leap cannot be applied to public undertakings. Finally, he was surprised that the government decided to extend the deadline for measures to eliminate the wage gap between men and women. He believes that this is a symptom of the government's willingness not to fight against this inequality. According to him, this is a political signal that equality between men and women is not a government priority. Mr Minister for Employment, Mrs Kitir points out that you and members of your party have repeatedly stated that the elimination of the wage handicap would not be achieved by reducing the wages of workers, which, according to Ms Kitir and other members, is the case here. Ms Kitir also wondered about the employment consequences of this index jump decision, highlighting the various studies that show that the impact on job creation is not as important as what is expected or declared by government members. It also points out that the compensatory measure to increase the lump sum for professional fees does not compensate for the effect of the index jump. It is concerned that the combination of the various measures decided by the government, in particular this index jump, creates a negative wage gap for Belgian workers compared to neighbouring countries, stressing that this will be detrimental not only to the purchasing power of households but also to the functioning of our economy in general. Like other members, Ms Kitir pointed out that other compensatory measures were possible, in particular by limiting increases in expenditure related to rents, postal services, train tickets, trams and buses, and mining in higher education. She was surprised that the government had not grasped its competence in this area to mitigate the impact of index jumps on citizens' purchasing power. It believes that this index jump is not essential and that there are alternatives that the government refuses to consider, alternatives suggested by various international bodies. She cited the OECD in particular. Ms Kitir stressed that the competitiveness of companies was not only dependent on wage costs and was surprised that, if this principle was included in the bill's explanatory memorandum, no provision was made to act on those other determinants of competitiveness. Finally, Ms Kitir regretted the government's decision to postpone the investment effort in training workers in relation to the wage bill, an effort set at 1.9% of the wage bill in theory. The government decides to postpone it. Then it is your servant who speaks; I will sum up my speech even more strongly, as long as I will have the pleasure of intervening earlier. Like other members, I contest the validity of the title of the bill. My group has tabled and defended an amendment to change the title of the text so that history will indeed retain, Mr Ducrame, that your majority - this government - has decided on an index jump impacting the incomes of workers and recipients. I am concerned about the snowball effect this could create, not only on workers' incomes but also on the economy as a whole, and about the impact of the measure on the confidence of our citizens and consumers. Among the victims of the index jump, the social beneficiaries are even harder hit because the compensation measures do not target them, in particular the increase in the flat-rate deductible professional costs. All this has an impact on the social climate in Belgium. It is surprising that the government decides to make the most fragile people pay for the crisis rather than implement this tax shift that we will certainly have an opportunity to debate. Secondly, Mrs Fonck deplores, like other members, what she considers to be a boycott of the social partners and of the National Labour Council, which, as a reminder, was not asked about the specific measure of index jump. It calls into question, like others, the effect of the measure on job creation. It points out that various interlocutors, such as the Union des Classes Moyennes (UCM), the Neutral Union for Independents (SNI), and even some large employers, consider that the contribution to the functioning of the economy of this index jump will be extremely limited. It also calls into question the argument that index jumps will only take place once they have occurred, and their consequences will be felt throughout the workers' careers. Ms Fonck stressed other variables on which to work: training, innovation, research and development, which were major issues. She stressed, like other colleagues, alternatives to index jumps such as tax shift and tax reform that would benefit job-creating SMEs, as well as the fight against tax evasion. She concluded by regretting, like other members before and after her, that measures on equal pay for women and men were postponed over time. Hedebouw expressed scepticism about the urgency requested by the government at that time for a vote on the measure before the end of March. Hedebouw then referred to a scenario for an increase in VAT itself leading to inflation and a faster index jump. Mr Hedebouw also challenged, on the basis of the report of the Central Economic Council, the extent of the wage gap between Belgium and neighbouring countries, noting that wages were rising elsewhere, particularly in Germany. It also highlights the progress in competitiveness that is not assessed and returned to workers. Like other speakers, he challenged the return effect of the job creation measure, noting that successive hearings in the Social Affairs Committee had seen the number of jobs decrease. He pointed out that, in addition to the cost of employment, financial costs were particularly important, considering that wages were part of the solution, not the problem. Mr. Vercamer, for the CD&V, admitted that the subject was sensitive and that the measures were difficult. However, he supports the government's action, stating that index skipping is not a blank cheque, that employers will be asked to commit and take responsibility. It also highlights the fact that compensatory measures are put on the table. Ms Demir expressed greater support for the measure, stating that, in her view, the aim was not to bother workers, but to restore the economy, considering that the cost of employment had derailed in Belgium. Mrs Demir referred to the previous index jump measures of 1984-86, considering that they had led to a drastic reduction in unemployment in a few years. It states that the previous government made a form of index jump without admitting it and that some members of the opposition forget it. She acknowledged that the measures decided upon were not popular, but felt that they would create employment. Mr Clarinval, for the MR, considers that index jump is necessary in order to eliminate the wage handicap. He acknowledged that the impact of index jumps on job creation was difficult to measure, but referred to the study by the National Bank, which referred to the creation of 33,000 jobs. Mr.Clarinval then lists the accompanying or compensatory measures that have also been decided by the government, all of which allow Mr.Clarinval and his group to support the bill. Mr Lachaert, for Open Vld, felt that index jumping was essential in order to keep the wage cost competitive. He recalled, as Mrs Demir did, that the previous government had made a hijacked index jump, een verdoken indexesprong, by adapting the basket of the housewife. He believes that the current government has the merit of operating in a transparent manner on the subject. Secondly, Mr Massin, for the PS group, stated his group's objectives in terms of job creation, but questioned the method used, believing that the argument that Belgian wage disadvantage would be a barrier to competitiveness and job creation in our country is not correct. He believes that this is an ideological position and proposes adding other dimensions to the debate, for example, not to calculate the wage cost in isolation but to carry out a study on the wage cost per unit produced to take productivity into account in this wage cost debate. It sets out a series of examples which, in his view, show that productivity has increased sharply and therefore that the wage cost per unit produced has not derailed, has not changed negatively compared to other countries. He stressed other avenues to be used to improve business productivity, such as investment in research and development in new information technologies. Again, he refers to studies by the Federal Planning Office and the National Bank. Massin is concerned about the social peace effects of the index jump measure and highlights a number of references, including an article from the National Bank's June 2010 Economic Review. I will not quote it in its entirety, but an excerpt is included in the written report. Lastly, he took note of the comments made by some members of the majority on the commitments made in the area of job creation and wondered what the reality was of those commitments. Secondly, for sp.a, Ms. Temmerman contradicts Ms. Demir's remarks, insisting that, in her view, the previous governments allowed the workers to retain their purchasing power and denouncing the fact that parties of the majority are doing, with this index leap, the opposite of what they announced during the 2014 election campaign. In particular, it points to Messrs. Lachaert and Peeters, who alleged that they would not affect the purchasing power of workers. In conclusion, she regretted that the accompanying measures announced were particularly meagre and that there was no commitment by employers to create additional jobs. Mr Calvo, for the Ecolo-Groen Group, stressed the fact that, among the parties of the majority, only one clearly stated that they were in favour of index jumping and that the others "managed" their words in relation to their pre-election commitments. He regretted that the social partners, either directly or via the National Labour Council, had not been questioned by the government in the context of the index jump debate. It is concerned about the consequences of the latter for social peace. It considers that the failure to seek its opinion from the National Labour Council is an error and does not contribute to ensuring the social peace which the Government wishes in its statements. He believes that there are alternatives to this index jump, particularly at the tax level. He pointed out that the index jump would have an effect on the entire length of workers' careers and that, in so doing, it was incorrect to estimate the loss of purchasing power at 0.5% since it would continue throughout the workers' careers. According to him, this index jump will lead to a vicious circle given its impact on social security. He asked for clear figures on the subject. It is concerned about the budgetary impact of the index jump by taking up the chronology of the elements which have been communicated, in particular in the context of the budget discussion, in the tables of the FPS Finances obtained by way of a request to the Court of Auditors. He points out that the index jump is not budget neutral, contrary to what the government says. He asked the Minister for Employment for precise figures and hoped that the Minister would send them to him. Mr Calvo believes that a form of conservatism and immobilism prevent alternative measures from being considered to the index jump to meet the problem of high wage costs in Belgium and points to a unique form of thought of competitiveness among the current majority, considering that alternatives exist, in particular with a tax shift. Ms. Onkelinx, for her part, referred to several statements made by members of the MR in the election campaign, stating that there would be no index jump. Ms Onkelinx pointed out that the non-increase in wages decided by the former government in a different context was not identical to a reduction in wages as practised through index jumping. It challenges the fact that index skipping is essential for improving competitiveness, considering that it is not the opinion of trade union organisations, nor of employers' representatives, and noting that different employers have considered this counter-productive measure. She believes that the index jump will not be perfectly corrected socially, indicating that the welfare link is an independent measure of compensation for this index jump. She wondered whether a tax shift was not presented at the same time as this index jump measure. In terms of training, it regrets, like others, that investments are crucial for the development of the economy, that not only has the goal of spending 1.9% of the wage bill on training not been achieved, but also that it is no longer...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u10	Mr Gilkinet, allow me to interrupt. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a statement of service: the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee with the Belgacom Summit will take place in the Europe Room, not in the Congress Hall. For the Members attending this sitting, I would like to inform you that a call will be made when the vote may take place after the debate. Mr. Gilkinet, you can continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u11	Mr President, Mrs Onkelinx regretted that the objective of allocating 1.9% of the wage cost to training had not been achieved and would not be achieved, since, through an article in the bill under consideration, the government decided to postpone the achievement of this objective, which was crucial for the functioning of the economy. It concludes by saying that the government calls for significant efforts from workers but does not implement the sanction mechanisms provided for by law in the event that a company fails to meet its training commitments, considering that there is an imbalance between the efforts required from workers and those required from employers. Ms Kitir, for sp.a, questioned the negative wage developments in Belgium compared to the Netherlands and France, considering that the problem was mainly related to wage developments in Germany and to very harsh measures taken there. She challenged the fact that the 1993 index jump had been implemented in an identical context. A discussion ensued with Mrs Demir on the merits of the measure, with Ms Demir recalling that index jumping had an effect that persisted over time. Mr Delizée then began a rather long, exciting and documented intervention on the origin of automatic wage indexation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u12	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u13	It is fully reflected in the report. It explains the origin of automatic wage indexation and its various developments, notably with the health index and the consumer index. It goes back to the stabilizing role that automatic wage indexation has been able to play in Belgium. It also challenges measures taken in other countries that are reference countries under the Competitiveness Act, notably targeting Germany, its minijobs and jobs at 1 euro per hour. He particularly elaborated on the measures taken in Germany, in which she was supported by Mrs Onkelinx, who indicated that the comparison with the three neighbouring countries had its limits and called for an amendment to the legislation. Mr. Delizée then continued his presentation and concluded that, since the bill would involve a social impact throughout the life of the worker up to and including his pension, he and his party would not be able to subscribe to it. The Minister of Employment provides a response to these various interventions, believing that index skipping is an exceptional measure in a particular context. It recalls the intense debates in the previous government on the issue of wage costs, on the measures relating to the index taken previously and on the specific measures to be taken to support employment. He affirms the starting point of the current federal government, which is to say that the measures taken previously are not sufficient to address the wage and competitive handicap. It considers that the compensatory measures decided by the Government are the result of the means established by the application of this index jump. He also points out that the political choice of making this index jump does not prevent the debate on the tax shift, even if it will take place at a later stage and considers that the decided index jump is an "intelligent" index jump – I leave it to him –, highlighting the various correction measures. Mrs Onkelinx then replied that the welfare envelope could not be regarded as compensation for the index jump, since it was structurally provided for by the law, in which it was joined by various members, including Mrs Temmerman and myself. A debate ensued as to whether or not the draft law would be an application of the agreement concluded between the social partners, at least in what was then referred to as a "group of eight" committee, with divergent opinions among the members of the committee. Before I allow Mrs de Coster-Bauchau to speak, I am trying to raise new points in this report. Of course, after such a lengthy discussion, there are repetitions and the remarkable work done by the departments that have written this important report. Following the Minister's responses, several members, including Mr Massin, Ms Temmerman, Mr Calvo and myself, said that they were still hungry, not convinced by his arguments about the need for index jumping. That's for the first reading. A further discussion took place at second reading, which focused on a further clarification of the question of the federal state's jurisdiction in terms of index jumps with regard to family allowances. The Minister of Social Affairs, who is not present today, has once again tried to enlighten us on this point. Mrs Kitir, Mr Daerden and I repeated our criticisms of this measure, referring to new studies that had not been mentioned at the first reading – the various members of the committee could not agree in the end on a unanimous reading, at least as regards the usefulness and validity of this index jump. Then we went to the article-by-article analysis. So I leave room for Mrs. de Coster-Bauchau.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be briefer than Mr Gilkinet. We must not have the same notion of what is short! Your Social Affairs Committee then focused on article-by-article analysis. This consideration has been the subject of various proposals for amendments. First of all, I will quote the amendments that were intended to delete all or part of all of the clauses from the bill. So, the representatives of the PTB-GO! proposed the deletion of articles 2 to 20. Members of the PS and cdH groups asked for the deletion of Title 2 alone and its articles, which deal with measures to block the smoothed health index. The Social Affairs Committee rejected these proposals, with sixteen votes and one abstention, respectively, on the amendment tabled by the PTB-GO! and eleven votes to six with regard to the amendments tabled by the PS and the CDH. Article 2 has been the subject of various proposals for amendments by the PS, Sp.a. and PTB-GO! to cancel, suspend or alleviate the effects of the index jump provided for in the bill. These proposals are rejected by a majority of the members of the committee. An amendment to the CD&V, MR, Open Vld and N-VA to amend the date of entry into force of the text is approved. The amendment of the CDH to clarify that family allowances cannot be considered as social benefits is rejected. During the discussions in Articles 3 and 4, the PS and the sp.a put forward proposals for amendments to extend the sources of income affected by the blocking of the smoothed health index, among other things through the addition of articles. These proposals were rejected by the committee. The PS proposes to delete Article 5 which, for him, would be contrary to the law of 21 March 1991 on the reform of certain public economic enterprises. Since the original article had been approved by a large majority of the members of the committee, the proposed amendment had become moot. The PS and sp.a tabled an amendment to also delete Article 6, which dealt with the penalties attached to a refusal to apply the preceding Articles. This proposal is rejected, along with a proposal for an amendment of the PS to replace the article in favour of a simple clarification of article 171 of the Social Penal Code. On the issue of training efforts, the CDH and the PS propose to delete Article 7, while Ecolo-Groen proposes to reform the text with the aim of strengthening the efforts of entrepreneurs in this area. The committee rejected these amendments. Articles 8 to 10 on the welfare liaison provide for consensus and are adopted by 16 votes to 1. For the harmonization of the statutes between workers and employees, the PS submits various proposals for amendments concerning the elimination of inequalities, as well as the abolition of Articles 15 and 16 relating to the annual holiday contribution. These proposals were rejected by the committee and the original articles approved. There were no observations regarding waiting days. The article was approved. Saturday work was also approved. The fight against the wage gap between men and women, the principle of which was unanimously supported by the members of the committee, however, was discussed. Thus, the Socialists proposed to delete Article 19 which did not accept that the time limits for analysis should be extended as the social partners agreed to do. This amendment is therefore rejected by the committee. Ecolo-Groen proposes three amendments, which are to add to this bill articles aimed at improving the working conditions of older workers and keeping them at work for a longer period, reforming the economic unemployment regime and providing for the reimbursement of public aid by the recipient companies for redundancies. These three amendments were rejected by the committee. With regard to the entry into force, the parties of the majority, by the vote of Mr Vercamer, propose to postpone the date in order to avoid retroactivity of certain measures envisaged and thus to ensure legal certainty. This reading was approved by the committee, which adopted the proposed amendment by majority against opposition. Ms. Onkelinx proposed a new title to this Act. This is rejected by a majority of the members. The bill as a whole, as amended, was adopted by 11 votes to 6 by the members of your Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u15	Mr Calvo, Mr Nollet and Mr Gilkinet, as agreed at the beginning of the sitting, I propose that we now consider the procedural motion tabled by Mr Calvo, Mr Nollet and Mr Gilkinet. As rule 54 of our Rules of Procedure provides, there is a possibility of holding a small debate on this motion. We have already heard Mr Calvo on the motion. There is a possibility for any political group to speak on this, but there is a time limit. Indeed, speaking time is limited to five minutes. Meanwhile, Mr. Calvo et al.'s motion is distributed. Mr Calvo has the floor first.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was not necessary for us to have come to this point, because we have already asked this question a number of times, particularly to you, Mr Deputy Prime Minister. We have repeatedly asked for clear wine to be given on the budgetary impact of the index jump, a measure which has concerned many people in recent months. It is one of the measures that has been the driving force behind a great deal of social protest, one of the most obvious measures of this government's imbalance, of the budgetary effort which is to a large extent passed on to people who are struggling and to people who work. Our basic statement about the index jump is very clear: it is an unfair measure, it is a lifelong tax increase for all people working and for those who have to fall back on benefits. It is also an ineffective measure, because theoretically he creates a number of jobs but at the same time he destroys a lot, he weakens the demand side of our economy and the financing of our social security. So it is not a good measure, it is a stupid measure. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the argument put forward by the government from day one that it is an important measure and that it does not cost anything, that it is budget neutral. That was the government's position during the debate on the coalition agreement in this plenary and that was also the government's position during the budget discussion. Mr Peeters, you defended this together with Mr Van Overtveldt and the Prime Minister with a lot of fire, saying that the index jump is budget neutral for entity I, for the federal government. Mr President, there have been several moments since then, Mr Van Rompuy will remember that we have given the majority the opportunity to give clear wine on the budgetary impact. We got a soap opera, with delivery after delivery contradictory statements. It seems as if every minister of this government has his own sheet on the budgetary impact of the index jump. It was budget-neutral during the budget discussion. Afterwards, the FPS Finance said that Mr Van Overtveldt made this available to him, and that it is no longer budget-neutral. Mr Peeters said at the first meeting of the Social Affairs Committee that it was budget-neutral and then quotes and stomps, because afterwards he regretted it, so I had the impression, and along with me quite a few fellow Members, a report from the Finance Inspectorate, during one of the last hours of the Committee's discussion of this bill, which states that it is not budget-neutral for entity I, for the federal government, that it has a negative impact. So it is not only an unjust measure, it is not only a bad and ineffective measure, it also appears to cost money to the federal budget. Then we would expect you to make it available when you quote the opinion. What, however, have you done? You've taken a step back. Transparency wouldn't give you. You didn't want the numbers on the table. Our sense of order is aimed at making that advice public. If you do not agree, there are the next steps. Then there's the disclosure of government. In that case, we shall be pulling the hat on the President of the European Parliament. I now give you the opportunity, Mr Peeters, to make that opinion available openly. Spokesmen of this government recently made other statements in the media last week. I quote Mr Van Overtveldt and his cabinet: "The index jump will suddenly have a positive budgetary impact of EUR 794 million. Two weeks ago, before the Easter holidays, there was a negative budgetary impact. During the Easter holiday that is plus 794 million euros. The government says the budget is important to her. She's talking about credible drivers. Then I ask you to put those figures on the table. Mr Peeters, you said during the election campaign that you would never make an index jump because it is a bad measure, and that you would not do so for the sake of credibility. Mr Beke, I am referring to a quote from Deputy Prime Minister Peeters during the election campaign, in which he said: "An index jump? Never!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u17	Mr Beke is asking for the floor for a personal statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u18	During the campaign, we made it clear that we are opposed to abolishing the index mechanism. We were against that in the campaign. We were opposed to this in the negotiations, and we remain totally opposed to it today. That has to be clear. The incident is closed. The incident is closed
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u19	Mr. Beke, it's about the index jump. Mr Peeters said during the election campaign that he would never do an index jump. Ladies and gentlemen, you have heard it all. Mr Beke referred to the index mechanism. So it wasn't about the index jump, it was about the index mechanism. Well, I brought a quote from Kris Peeters, then Prime Minister-in-Office. It seems like an eternity ago. On 23 May 2014, an article was published in Het Laatste Nieuws in which the candidate prime minister entered into dialogue with the citizens. The title of the article was "Number 1 in Credibility."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u20	You're gonna have to finish up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u21	I'm about to finish, but it's a personal fact. If you have any doubts, I'd like to have the article copied. I quote Kris Peeters: "And we're not going to do an index jump either. Credibility, so we make a difference." Not the index mechanism, but the index jump. You're breaking an election promise here today, Mr. Beke. The penalty is, I conclude, that the chairman of the squabble cabinet is today launching a campaign in the Flagey building to tell us: look what we are achieving with the N-VA, look what this N-VA government is doing, look how we make it difficult for working people and people who benefit. That's what's happening in the Flagey building right now. What's going on here? Mr Beke and Mr Peeters come here, all alone, defending the index jump. The least you can do is to break your electoral promise in all transparency and put the figures on the table so that we can have a serious debate on Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u22	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill that you claim to be an employment promotion project has been well prepared in the Committee on Social Affairs. We had the opportunity to meet with representatives of the Federal Planning Office, the Central Economic Council and the Belgian National Bank. Many actors have therefore come to talk to us about the impact that the proposed measure could have, the number of jobs that could be created, the effect that they believe would not be as negative as it might be for workers who could benefit from compensation, the positive effects for companies and the Belgian economy and its budgetary neutrality. Beyond the debate on index jumping as such, which we will still have the opportunity to talk about earlier, all the elements put on the table allowed for a debate between the parliamentarians of the various political groups on the advisability of the measure advocated. On this occasion, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have tried to justify it economically, socially. You defended its positive impact in terms of employment development, public finances by stating that those who protested against this measure were wrong and understood nothing, on the basis of the figures put on the table. We will come back – you may know – later on, since the Central Economic Council does not fully agree with you on this matter. Unfortunately for you, you sometimes have the tongue a little too well hanged. For example, the parliamentarians present in committee were surprised to hear you say, in response to a question, that an opinion of the Inspectorate of Finance had been given to you and that, following the latter, the impact of this measure would be negative for the budget of entity 1 (Federal State and Social Security). I can understand that you're bored enough and that you thought you'd have done better to keep quiet. This can happen! From the moment we have received the opinions of many experts, and in this case a government expert, we logically ask you to put the numbers on the table so that we can see what is happening. We must have the best light to be able to conduct a proper debate and beyond that, to take positions on very important issues for a large part of the population. In fact, tomorrow there will still be demonstrations because of these measures that could be taken. It is natural that this type of document should be brought to the attention of parliamentarians as well as of public opinion. You could have played the game, as was done for the rest, and put these documents at our disposal to start a debate to see what is really happening. You won't! You say "no" purely and simply! It therefore seems to me logical that we should come back to it, that the Ecolo-Groen Group should introduce a motion asking you to put these figures on the table. You would show a great openness, beyond repairing your little difficulty or gap because you have moved a little too far. We have to shoulder our responsibilities. You would show a great openness by putting these figures on the table so that we can have the most serene debate possible and take everything into account. In addition, we would like to know your arguments, those of your party and those of your coalition friends, which justify the fact that you continue to want to take these steps despite the advice of the Finance Inspectorate. Minister, when you want a good debate, you really put everything on the table. This is called the equality of the parties when it comes to pleading in a court of law. Today is the People's Court! The people's elect are here! Put everything on the table, don't be afraid! If you have convincing arguments, we will hear them and answer them with arguments. You will take it into account or not, but I believe that rather than vote in favour or against this motion, you should have this greatness to put the elements on the table. If this note were to be tabled, it would be easier for everyone and we would emerge from this sterile debate of majority against opposition! Demonstrate greatness of soul!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u23	Mr President, it is important to focus on the substantive debate. I'm not going to be long. I agree with the request to have the figures from the Finance Inspectorate. I am surprised, moreover, that the majority groups all decide to play opacity rather than transparency. It would increase your choice of transparency on objective data, such as the Finance Inspectorate's analysis. However, I have no doubt that, unfortunately, you will once again refuse to put this type of item on the table. This has been widely seen in committee, especially with the refusal to take into account the views of the social partners. This so-called urgent project has now been on the table since March 3 – it is April 21. What can be said about this so-called emergency? Unfortunately, I have no doubt that you will vote here as one man against this motion, for opacity, against transparency. Frankly, it doesn't grow up!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u24	Mr President, Minister Mijnheer of Minister Peeters, we want figures: honest, clear, transparent figures of the impact of the index jump on the state budget. We want to get the figures on the clear consequences of the index jump on the state budget, on the budget of this government. The question is not just technical, because it is at the heart of the debate about job creation, which will be supposedly positive by this index jump. Because if this index jump has a negative impact on the state budget, it will have a negative impact on public services. There is a fundamental contradiction between the figures given by the National Bank of Belgium in commission and those given by the Office of the Plan. If you do not include in the numerical balance sheet the number of jobs supposedly created by this index jump all the job deletions in the public services, you manipulate the figures. It is this manipulation that will be denounced tomorrow by thousands of public service workers; thousands of workers fighting for their own purchasing power. They are going to fight tomorrow, not only for their own wages but also for public services. You cannot say that there will be no consequences for public service jobs if the budget is falling more and more, partly because of the measures you are taking and because of the index jump. That is why, Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, we will support the point of order put forward here by our friends at Ecolo-Groen... [[Brouhahaha]] Yes, they are our friends! Our comrades... We will obviously ask for a full opinion from the Finance Inspectorate in order to start a calm debate and to know the exact consequences of the index jump that this majority wants to vote for.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u25	Mr Nollet will also give a brief explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u26	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u27	Yes, and please excuse me. First, Mrs Temmerman has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u28	Thank you, Mr. Nollet. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we will of course support the motion. I will not repeat everything that my colleagues in the opposition have already said here. I would like to mention one not insignificant point. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I would very much like you to listen carefully. I'll be very brief, don't worry. Do you remember, at the beginning of the legislature, the explanatory statement on the government statement and also the explanatory statement on the first budgetary outlook in this legislature? Now, on page 13 of the general budget statement, there was a table showing the impact of the index jump. In that table 215 million additional corporation tax was calculated. If 215 million euros of additional corporate tax is collected, this implies about 860 million euros of profits for companies. That's not unimportant. If we are now asking about the tables, about information about the impact, then this should also be looked at in that context. This exposes very painfully what the index jump is about and who the index jump is for. In the table at the time, this measure was described as fiscally neutral, which is not now apparent, but on top of that there is additional profit for the companies. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, we are entitled to know what is going on with this today. If you refuse to release those figures, you are actually saying that this index jump is not so much for job creation and that you will still see the impact that index jump has on us. All that matters then is that 860 million profits for the companies. That exposes very painfully and very directly what this index jump is about. That is what we will discuss this afternoon and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u29	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to draw your attention to one point. I would like to know why, in the preamble that accompanies the introduction of the bill, you did not refer, when it is mandatory, to the advice of the Inspectorate of Finance. Are you aware that by not mentioning it, you are taking the risk of a subsequent remedy? You know that this text is being criticized outside our chamber. Therefore, why do you take the legal risk of not mentioning in the preamble to the bill the fact that you received the advice of the Finance Inspectorate? There is certainly a subtlety that escapes my reasoning. That is why I am asking you about this before a vote is taken. Perhaps it would be a good way for you to get away with this text from the Finance Inspectorate. Indeed, the majority can rely on the fact that in numbers this is not necessary. But later, through the courts, others will win and raise legal problems aimed at the solidity of your text. So, before you proceed to the vote, do you just want to explain why, in the preamble to the bill, you failed to indicate that the advice of the Inspectorate of Finance should be given? I would like a technical response in addition to the substantive interventions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u30	This government is always portrayed as antisocial, but you must explain to me, ladies and gentlemen, what is antisocial about creating jobs, about giving business space to create jobs. You don't have to believe us, they're not my figures: there are figures from the National Bank that estimate the net job creation or the extra jobs at 33 000. The Planning Bureau is more cautious and estimates the additional jobs created by the reduction in charges at 28 000. It states that this is the extra growth, in addition to the normal growth that is there anyway. In total, the Plan Bureau estimates 140 000 jobs over four years. Now you need to explain to me what is antisocial about a measure that will ensure that more people get out of unemployment and more jobs are created. That's more important than earning a few centimes more or less.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u31	I would like to remind the Members of Parliament that we are talking about the order motion tabled by Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u32	Mr President, I fully agree with you that this is not about the motion, but if Mrs Lanjri gives some very incomplete figures, one should have the opportunity to respond to it. The figures you give, Mrs Lanjri, are partly correct. The Planning Bureau has indeed mentioned the figure 33 000. However, the Planning Office has also calculated that with all the measures taken by this government and with the negative impact of the index jump, the net figure is 16 000. I come to the answer to your question, Mrs Lanjri, what one can have against it. There is nothing in itself, but according to the same calculation, a very targeted reduction in the burden on the lowest wages, financed by an added value tax which does not affect the purchasing power of the families, brings about 50 000 jobs. That's what we're going for.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u33	We are not going to open the debate, but I must give Mrs Onkelinx the floor for a small reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u34	It is true that the CD&V group is always very surprising. In committee, some members were somewhat embarrassed by the measure. Mrs Lanjri, it is still a general impoverishment of workers! And now you're saying that everything, in fact, is a good measure, a measure that will create jobs. Does this mean that from now on the CD&V group will argue for systematic index jumps, since these are good measures that create jobs? What is this for an intervention? Besides, Mrs Lanjri, it's business support. I am in favour of business support; this has been done in the Competitiveness and Employment Pact, but linked to job creation. Here, these are supports unrelated to job creation. You impoverish workers and enrich those who run them without any compensation for employment. Is this the position of the CD&V?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to tell you that the general discussion has not even begun. I therefore propose that we now express our opinion on the need for order.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u36	Mr President, I would like to take the floor as chairman of the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we have debated this bill in committee for more than 30 hours. We have discussed, among other things, the aspect mentioned in the order motion, in particular the budgetary impact, for a long time, and we have also listened to the Minister in detail. I have to say that I do not note any new element in today's debate compared to the discussion in committee. At that time, the Minister made it clear that the index jump is not a budgetary measure but a competitive measure. The long-term budgetary impact is neutral. If entity I and entity II are combined, there are indeed winners and losers. There are indeed winners at many mayors, here in this assembly, who will have to pay less thanks to this index jump. At the same time, it is a competitiveness measure that will give oxygen to companies for several billions of euros. This is what the Minister said in committee, and this has forced us to proceed to the debate after a vote. In other words, at that time we did not respond to the opposition's demand that is being put on the table again. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore like to ask colleagues from the committee to begin the discussion on the substance and not to accept this order.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u37	Mr President, as the author of the motion for a resolution, I would like to make two points. Mrs Lanjri comes here with a lot of fire defending the index jump as a good measure. In addition, Mr Van Quickenborne, as a liberal, who normally considers transparency and budgetary Orthodoxy to be very important, proposes a personal title to continue covering up the budgetary impact. I have to contradict him here at some point. I don't understand why you're taking this attitude. If you say that there is no new element, then you are completely wrong. I just referred to it in the chair. Last week Mr Van Overtveldt said something completely different. He mentioned a positive budgetary impact of 794 million. So it is not a grotesque question to put all these figures on the table. Mr Peeters, I come to the only question I have left. Mr Nollet has asked you a specific question. Why didn't you mention the advice of the Finance Inspectorate in the draft law? That is a question to which Mr Peeters has to answer. Mr Peeters, you are already doing something very difficult today, namely breaking an election promise. Please do so with all the information available to Parliament. That's the least you can do today to save your face a little bit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u38	Mr President, I hope that I will also be able to speak extensively at the end of this debate today or tomorrow. However, I would like to thank the three rapporteurs for their report. On this particular point, first of all, I would like to add to Wouter Beke that we explicitly stated in the election campaign that the automatic indexing mechanism should be retained for us and that we agreed to a one-off index jump in the negotiations on the coalition agreement. I explained that in committee. This index jump is fully justified because we want to close the pay gap. We cannot do this with what the previous government has agreed, namely the Competitiveness Pact, where there is no direct obligation to create work either. I want to have the debate on this later. As far as the personal fact is concerned, Mr Calvo, I would like to say that there is no problem at all and that our credibility is still very high. Secondly, as far as the budgetary debate is concerned, Mr Van Quickenborne is right. This is a measure to strengthen the competitiveness of our companies and to maintain and create jobs. This is not, in the first instance, a budgetary measure with serious budgetary implications. In the light of the various discussions, Mr Van Overtveldt initially replied extensively in his committee. Questions have been asked to me in the Committee on Social Affairs, again about the budgetary impact. I specifically referred to the IF opinion, which states that this is initially not positive for entity I. It is positive for entity II.............................................................................................................................................................................................. More importantly, this is very positive for the private sector. So I made that very clear. The debate on the budgetary impact, which was discussed in detail once again, obviously has everything to do with the question of how many jobs this is going to create. How many jobs will this index jump create in the private sector? Mrs Lanjri is, of course, right on that point. According to the National Bank of Belgium, this is 33 000 jobs, while the Planning Bureau indicates a lower number between 26 000 jobs and 30 000 jobs. There are, of course, other studies. In the end, once we have adopted this draft and implemented it in the sectors, it is essential to create jobs. That's the ratio legis of the index jump. I hope that, after the extensive discussion in committee and after the explanatory statement that has been made here, the debate on budgetary impact can be closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall apply the Rules of Procedure, which we have, moreover, largely exceeded. You know the contents of the motion. Mr Nollet, I am no longer giving the floor: everything has been said. Mr Nollet, Mrs Fonck, you asked questions and got answers. We apply Rule 54 of the Rules of Procedure and vote in favour and stand up for the motion, as it is before us. (Protests from the opposition) Once again, we are voting in favour and standing up, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u40	Mr Nollet has the floor for his abstention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u41	Mr President, I abstained because we did not have an answer to the question I asked the Deputy Prime Minister. In doing so, it legally weakens the text. This will be discussed and voted on. However, in the preamble to the bill's proposal...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u42	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u43	That's just cause for abstention, Mr. Dewael. The president gave me the floor. Let me say something. I repeat to the Deputy Prime Minister that it would have been better if he had now answered the question asked, namely, why, in the preamble, did he not specify the fact that he had asked for the opinion of the Inspectorate of Finance? This will cause him a problem at a later stage, unless he has an element of response. I think he's got it on his gsm. In this way, we will be able to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u44	Mr President, when we debate a motion, each group is allowed to speak once for five minutes, i.e. not twice or three times. You asked for a vote at the sitting and getting up. Sitting and getting up is not an option to abstain. Then one must ask for a vote on names, which one has not done. Abstinence with a vote by sitting and getting up is not possible, in my opinion. I make these comments because I do not want to see any systematic reference to previous case law in the event of subsequent incidents. That is the substance of the matter, Mr Nollet. The Minister replied. If you don't like that answer, I'll leave it on your account, but he answered. If that's not okay with you, that's your problem. I think that one should debate according to the rules of art. There are limits to fun.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u45	Mr Dewael, I take note of your comment. General discussion (continuation) General discussion (continuation) Mrs Onkelinx has the floor in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u46	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Lanjri, we must indeed call a cat a cat! This week is going to be the week of social decline. A majority of this Parliament is about to vote on three bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to conduct your conversations in the corridors so that there can be a real debate here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u48	Mr President, I said that a majority of members of this Parliament were about to vote on three bills this week. First of all, the index jump, which is actually a 2% tax on wages, pensions and allowances. Second, the extension of career in the public service and the end of the pension bonus which, for a lot of pensioners, will be an important trick since it will prevent these pensioners from benefiting from a bonus of 2,200 euros a year. And finally, the increase in registry fees, which becomes a real tax on access to justice. In fact, this bill goes so far as to multiply the amounts by five to be heard in the courts. Thus, I would say that after several weeks without any plans, without any major debate, the government and its majority are mobilizing on three texts that bear in them what I would call a real social regression. You know, our country is obviously not perfect; there is still much to be done to achieve economic and social prosperity. But the choices made by previous governments have enabled our country to be very well ranked at the level of the Social Progress Index, which is what measures social progress and country-by-country well-being. Belgium is in the lead in the countries of well-being and well-being. Belgium, with all its shortcomings, including too high a poverty rate, is a country of well-being; that is all you question with economically ineffective and socially unjust policies. In addition to being unfair, the reforms have amazing economic and social consequences, and this will increase the debt in particular. It is not I who say it, it is the studies of both the National Bank and the Office of the Plan that are, in this regard, unanimous and show that the index jump will create deflation that will increase the debt by 1.9% of GDP by 2019. Secondly, it will weigh heavily on the means of social security. This was said during the work in committee. One of the main sources of funding for social security, namely contributions, will be reduced very sharply. Third, they will reduce the income of work-related households, which is somewhat incredible. It's the famous work more but earn less. Finally, they will not create the jobs necessary for economic recovery. We are talking about an increase in the occupancy rate of 0.3% by 2020, which is much less than any active employment support policy as has been known in previous governments. You'll allow me to quote one last number. I think it's important. The Federal Office of the Plan has shown that the government's actions will lead to a 1.2 per cent impoverishment of the population. So that's what we're going to talk about this week. It was well realized in committee that both – as I said in response to Mrs Lanjri – were somewhat uncomfortable. On the basis of the arguments exchanged on this impoverishment of the population, on this economic inefficiency, there were different answers. I remember Mr Vercammen, for example, saying, "You're going to see, we're going to fix all this with the tax shift." If we can do it. There was an understandable malaise on the part of some members of the majority. But, more than that, what is surprising is to see the position of the ministers who are carrying out these projects, which we are going to talk about this week. For example – Mr Daerden will come back – when we talk about pension reform, Mr Bacquelaine, as he is embarrassed by the surrounding areas, says systematically: "You know, it won't touch anyone." If that's true, then why do it? Mr Geens said on taxation for access to justice: "You know, there won't be too many problems for access to justice. In fact, we are going to empower judicial actors." Let us take the example of a couple buying a house that later finds that the latter has a hidden vice. A complaint is required. It is important to know that, in order to go to court, the amount that he will have to pay in order to be heard, his rights will be multiplied by three. Deputy Prime Minister Peeters said the index jump envisaged was smart and compensation would be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u49	That's great!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u50	That's great! Today there is a "beast" index jump and an "intelligent" index jump. How does Mr. Peeters explain that the index jump in question is smart? By compensation. Indeed, with him, we compensate everything, which is obviously completely false. I will return to that point. Indeed, if what he claims is true, why do it? That is the overview of the various proposals made to us. The government talked about a break with past policies. That is indeed the case. Today, you assume austerity policies that will impoverish the population. When the time for the balance sheet comes, this aspect will weigh very heavily. Colleagues, I would now like to return to the bill called "promotion of employment". First of all, Mr President, let me draw your attention to the danger to the rights of Parliament posed by the repeated use of emergency procedures by the government. As far as this project is concerned, one can even speak of an implausible saga around the urgency that accompanied the substantive discussion. The project was discussed in an emergency while a week later it turned out that it was no longer necessary. However, due to the urgency requested by the government, a series of delays were reduced and there was no consultation with those first interested in a project such as the one under discussion. I am thinking in particular of the National Labour Council. Attention will have to be paid to this matter. Indeed, this is not the first time that we have seen this way of doing things which must not only shock members of the opposition, but also those of the majority. As President of this House, you should be particularly attentive to this aspect of things. Mr. Nollet wants to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u51	Mr. Chairman, I would like to support Mrs Onkelinx's point, which is not unrelated to the debate we have had on the motion. What is happening is quite serious and happens repeatedly. In addition to the circumvention of the social partners, the demand for emergency measures also makes it possible to circumvent the necessary economic, social and environmental impact assessment of each bill. It is also a way of avoiding the actual examination – which must be done and which we are doing here – of the law as it is tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u52	Mr President, I would like to return to the fact that the social partners have not been consulted in this story. Mrs Onkelinx says that social dialogue has not enabled us to express an opinion. That discussion was also discussed in committee. This is obviously wrong. An agreement has been reached with eight partners from the Group of Ten. These social partners have reached an agreement against the background of the index jump that would occur. There was an agreement on wage increases 2015-2016 for the different sectors: 0.5 % + 0.3 %. That was only possible, taking into account the fact that there would be an index jump. This is also exactly what the agreement says: "The social partners refer to the attitude of the government which intends to implement the index jump. Employers and employees differ on the opportunity and usefulness of an index jump. In this context, however, the draft agreement below was reached. The context is well known: the intention of the government to make an index jump. In this context, employers' organisations have been prepared to compensate for this with a wage increase of 0.8 % in total, together with all the other measures already taken by the federal government to compensate for this index jump. Purchasing power remains a deadly actor who keeps coming forward. Since 2015, the flat-rate tax deduction has increased. That is no more or no less than a tax cut for everyone who will also be affected by the index jump. That will continue even further in 2016, Mrs Temmerman. A magazine of De Tijd published a Michel I guide at the end of 2014......................................................................................................................................................................................... We are always talking about the index jump as a blow, but we are forgetting all the measures taken in the meantime in the social dialogue and the federal government to allow additional wage increases, to increase wages net, and I am not talking about the welfare envelope that is now being spent at 100%, which also gives the lowest benefits their compensation. You wipe it all under the mat, but it is the reality, Mrs Onkelinx.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u53	Colleagues, please be as brief as possible in your speeches.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u54	Mr President, we were talking about the urgency used regardless of the situation, including when the draft came to plenary only six weeks later. We also said that the urgency was invoked to bypass the social partners. I can't let Mr. Lachaert say anything. I even wonder, minister, if you support this kind of comment. What I have just heard is that, basically, there has been an agreement between eight out of ten social partners on index jumps. It's swollen and totally unacceptable! The Minister made exactly the same slip in committee using opinions on anything else to claim that the social partners were aware of and supported and agreed to. You know very well, minister, and I hope you will not deny me, that this is not true. The social partners did not give an opinion on the index jump, they did not endorse it. I had already said this in committee: such statements are unacceptable. I see now that the minister agrees. I cannot, Mr Lachaert, let you say that the social partners have given a positive opinion on this subject. They were not consulted, they did not give an opinion. Point on the line.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u55	Mr Lachaert, you are trying, with an explanation, to show that the social dialogue was respected. However, it remains a fact that no social consultation has been requested on this draft law. An agreement has been reached from the Group of Ten on the so-called social corrections. That's the sales pitch with which you want to soften this index jump. There has been an agreement on this, but there has never been any call for social dialogue on the index jump itself. We have called for urgency and we are based on the opinion of the Council of State, but we have never asked for social dialogue on the index jump. In the end, it is not about social corrections, but about the 2% you reduce from the wages of employees in the private sector, civil servants and beneficiaries. That's what this is about. Apparently, you attach more importance to the conclusions that De Tijd makes than to the conclusions that the social partners would make. That's not okay. You should not say that you respect the social partners, because you do not. You suggest that you have made adjustments to the professional costs, but we have asked this in committee and we continue to ask these questions. We do not get an answer to the question as to where the flat-rate professional costs for pensioners are. What do you do for these people? There will also be an index jump for them. So please do not tell us that you do respect the social partners, because that is totally incorrect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u56	Mr President, Mr Lachaert, firstly, with regard to social dialogue, you are not playing the game correctly. You did the same in committee. Mr Peeters has also done so at certain times, albeit slightly less explicit than you, because you have stated that both trade unions, ACV and ACLVB, have legitimized and almost approved the index jump. Well, I don't think that's right, and you need to stop doing that. In this way, in the corporate style of the current majority, you will once again seek the conflict with the trade unions and the workers. So stop doing that and be correct. There have been partial agreements. The index jump is not part of this. Secondly, science fiction policy continues. We have not yet heard the N-VA, except in Mrs Demir's report. Meanwhile we see how CD&V and Open Vld record it continuously for the index jump. I have just confronted Mr Beke with his party's statement during the election campaign, but your party was also against an index jump during the campaign. I quote Mr De Croo in De Tijd, where he says: "The N-VA goes for an index jump, something that Open Vld could still be found for at the end of 2012. Oh, why not now? Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Asks Time. To which son De Croo, Deputy Prime Minister at the moment and normally someone who should know the programme of Open Vld well and also convey it: "We are now in a different situation than two years ago. We must now use different recipes. We need to get the money from the government and not from the people. With an index jump, you get it from the people. Mr Lachaert, you were also elected in South-East Flanders, with Alexander De Croo as leader, with a programme that did not include the index jump. Only the N-VA has taken an index jump to the elections. Yet something very strange is happening here today, in particular that these two majority parties are keenly defending the index jump. So stop, if you want to maintain a little bit of credibility with your own electorate, which you have promised never to make an index jump. Be a little more restrained today. Let at least the N-VA, the batch of index jump, do the dirty work. They're all gone. Probably they're all in the Flagey building right now, for the campaign "The Engine of Progress." However, the debate is taking place here. Mr Lachaert, Mr Beke, you were not in favour. So don't take it up for the index jump. If all the political groups in Parliament stick to their electoral promises, there will be no index jump. After all, there is only one party in favour, and that is the N-VA. For the time being, and let us hope forever, that party does not yet have an absolute majority. There is therefore no social majority and there is no parliamentary majority for an index jump. I do not understand why parties who were against the index jump during the election campaign are so fiercely defending that measure today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u57	Mr Lachaert, if we are so sure that the social partners will support this index jump, as you say over and over again, why not ask for the opinion? I can't understand that. You are constantly being attacked and every time you defend yourself by saying that the social partners knew and are actually implicitly in favour of it. Then ask for the advice, so you can at least prove it. But no, the advice is not necessary. Why, Mr Lachaert? Because, as Mrs Kitir says, at least a large part of the social partners are not in favour of the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u58	Mr Calvo, you are talking about election promises, but did you go to the electorate with what you said after the formation of the government, namely that taxes in this country should increase by 8.5 billion? Is that Green's election promise? 'Cause I haven't heard about that since. Competitiveness, budget, job creation and so on will be achieved by raising taxes by EUR 8.5 billion. Was that your message to the voter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, people are hearing things I have not said. Mrs Fonck brings up the story again as if I had said that the trade unions agree with that index jump, or that they would have given a positive opinion, but I never said that. I have literally quoted what is in the text. The Minister did the same in committee. The parties, employers and employees, differ on the appropriateness and usefulness of an index jump. We all know that. That's nothing new. However, it is in this context, assuming that there will be an index jump, that the Group of Ten will conclude an agreement to increase wages in the coming years. Mrs Temmerman, would you like to make a summary of the previous government with the Socialists? That government has made a hidden index jump by adjusting the index basket and by lowering the VAT on energy, which led to the next index jump six months later. We are now transparent and say what we are doing. And what we do, we do right. Mrs Temmerman, as far as the wage freeze is concerned, we have jointly approved a wage freeze in the previous government, with a ceiling of 0 per cent. It's 0.8 % now. The wages weren't supposed to rise anymore. At that time, the trade unions never asked for advice. Never! The Socialists have never asked in the social dialogue whether they agreed or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u60	It would have been a good idea to hear from the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u61	You've never heard them? They never gave an opinion?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u62	Whether it's the trade unions, whether it's the employers' organisations, they could have answered your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u63	You never asked for such an opinion when you were in the coalition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u64	Of course I do! What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u65	On wage limitation, you have never asked for it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u66	Colleagues, the minister is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u67	First of all, the government consists of several parties that have made a coalition agreement. That is the way it is, Mr Calvo. None of the parties has an absolute majority, which would allow it to express its will. The Chamber decided that the draft should be dealt with as a matter of urgency. That is still the case. Nor did the Council of State make any mention of it when we asked for an urgent opinion. The sectors are now waiting for the index jump to be approved in order to start negotiations at sectoral level. For the sake of clarity, it is true that the social partners, the trade unions in particular, did not give their agreement to the index jump. However, the government has said very clearly in the coalition agreement and every time that the index jump is coming. Everyone knew about this, both employers and employees. Mr Lachaert rightly stressed that, in view of the urgency of the matter, no opinion had been requested, but that the eight partners in their agreement on wage developments always assumed an index jump, with which they disagreed and in which the mentioned 0.5 % and 0.3 % could be found. The government did not at any time leave any doubt that the index jump would come. That is what I said, and Mr Lachaert just underlined it. It's the second time people twist things and interpret traffic. I hope that is clear once and for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u68	Deputy Prime Minister, as far as the urgency is concerned, you say: "We have asked for urgency. That was voted on. So it's urgent." That's an amazing answer. We know from the debates in committee that, in reality, this project should not be covered by urgency and that the argument that you put forward to justify it was an erroneous argument. Because of this argument, we have not been able to hear in particular the National Labour Council but also, for example, the Central Economic Council. Indeed, you argue that index jump is necessary for competitiveness. The Central Economic Council could have shown you the opposite. You then say, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, that there are several parties in this majority. There, you don't teach us much. You also say that it is included in the government agreement. So what? Does that mean that, because something is included in the government agreement, there is no more debate? We're not inviting anyone anymore? Aren't we listening to the actors in the field? I don't follow you either. It would have been very useful to hear from those who work in the field on a daily basis on issues such as employment. I continue my reflection on the project and, for those who did not follow the work in committee, they will have noticed the title of the project: "Employment Promotion Bill." You have to dare! Really. You have to dare say that. It's a government with nerves. You can't say otherwise. It's not just a nerve. It's a real masquerade! This is truly a total disregard for the workers and the population. Why? What is really in this project? First, there's the index jump. Not just, but there's the index jump. The index jump will, for example, cause a worker who has an average wage of 3,100 euros gross per month to lose 400 euros per year. It will cause a person who has a gross monthly salary of about 4,000 euros to lose almost 500 euros a year. He will lose more than 500 euros to a pensioner who, after a full career, has a pension of 1,500 euros. With this project, therefore, the purchasing power is severely affected. I therefore make some reflections on this choice. Firstly, if I am particularly shocked by this decision, it is because I have always vetoed it. This is not the first time we have addressed this point. Under previous governments – as the former Prime Minister who is present in the Chamber knows – some proposals to that effect have already been put on the table. Your party, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, at that time, was not necessarily opposed to index jumping. If, on behalf of the PS, I objected to this index jump, it is because, for me, this measure symbolizes a fundamental injustice, a reversal of workers' rights. As the cost of living increases, wages, pensions and allowances are blocked. As the Plan Office and all those interested in the situation say, households are becoming poorer. I would never have agreed to organize a frontal attack on the rights of those who work or have worked. This runs counter to my deepest convictions. The PS's gone. The dike has given in. We are now attacking workers' incomes! Secondly, we do not understand that those who have always defended this kind of policy still support it in times of low inflation. That was the meaning of Mr Peeters' speech, Mr Van Rompuy. He said that allowing an index jump in such an inflation situation was not really smart. It's not smart, but you do it anyway, in addition to causing huge social tensions, which gives rise to a certain economic impact! Thirdly, it is a breach of trust with the population. We heard great promises, hand over heart, from the MR. He was called back in committee. Some members of the MR did not know that. We had to recapture the excerpts. The MR had said during the election campaign: "Never will we touch the index!" Here we go, let's do it! In the future, the people will judge the weight of the promises of the Liberals. I mean, I'd say it's a policy of the past. In committee, we have heard Members praise the decisions of the Martens-Gol years, which, I would remind you, were devastating between 1981 and 1985. They led to a fall in the purchasing power of employees by 8.5%, while at the same time the profit of enterprises increased by 4.3%. This is obviously not the model defended by the socialists. And then, it's incomprehensible to the majority discourses. How can we justify hitting workers and, more importantly, those who have worked, i.e. pensioners? What about what we hear outside this chamber about the need to support those who get up early, who have courage, determination and enthusiasm to work? What about the big speeches about the family? You might not have decided not to index family allowances. How are you going to justify your comments on the family again? Who's also talking about housing? In committee, Mrs Kitir - I would like to quote it - has rightly shown that by blocking income, but allowing rents to rise, this government will reduce the income of a single person with children by 360 euros a year, whose annual net remuneration is 1,500 euros, while allowing the average rent to increase by 135 euros a year – not to mention the freezing of family allowances. You can imagine the situation. I know the Walloon Region has just decided to block the rents. It's a very good decision. I hope for our citizens – wherever they live – that the same decision will be taken in all regions. This is the index jump with all its consequences, and which is called "employment promotion bill". Reducing the purchasing power of workers, pensioners, the unemployed, the disabled is an amazing choice! Deputy Prime Minister, we must be correct. It is true that in some situations your lump sum fee reform will soften the measure, but never neutralize it. In fact, a very low-income worker will, despite everything, have to take on your decisions relating to consumer taxes and will see his family allowances decrease, while his rent will increase – if the Regions do not take action. Allow me to pay attention to the very special situation of pensioners. I mentioned this earlier by pointing out that your measures, for a pension of 1,500 euros gross, mean a lower return of around 500 euros because of non-indexing. But worse, pensioners are victims of the non-indexing of tax ceilings for replacement income. Therefore, all the combined measures (non-indexing of allowances and pensions, non-indexing of tax ceilings for replacement income, consumption taxes) for those pensioners who promote a pension of EUR 1,500 gross represent a decrease of EUR 944 annually. To promote employment, is it to withdraw 944 euros annually from a pensioner, who receives 1 500 euros gross each month? Let us not come over and beat up, for in committee some have rallied on welfare allowances. The Minister of Social Affairs told us that the government would compensate for welfare benefits. But it's not knowing the mechanism! We were entitled to an indexation plus a welfare allowance. If indexation is removed as well as well-being, it cannot be said that the welfare allowance compensates for non-indexation. It's pretty simple! In addition, under the former legislature, we had indexing, but we had somewhat planed the amount of well-being. Now, that's all that's deleted! All parties of the majority, except the N-VA, deny not only their word but also the writings. When we negotiated the sixth reform of the State, it was clearly stated that the transfer of family allowances could not have an impact on the welfare envelope and that, therefore, this envelope should remain intact. As in general, with the welfare envelope, family allowances were not increased but rather pensions, we did have greater room for manoeuvre. Despite his words, despite his commitment, despite his writing, this majority has withdrawn some 300 million euros from the welfare envelope by 2018, which are therefore in addition to the measures concerning index jump. I find it lamentable! I also find it lamentable that the Prime Minister is telling us in this forum that we are going to increase welfare allocations by EUR 127 million because there is a small problem. Ladies and gentlemen, in the end, we did not take these 127 million to increase the envelope, but we took them to finance the "flat cost" operation. An index jump, well-being allowances that are planed, I think the title of this bill is wrong! I was talking about index jumping, but it's not just that in this bill. There are also provisions on training. We had a quiet but sometimes a bit lively exchange with the Deputy Prime Minister. We know that in our country we are below the rate of investment in research, innovation and training. We also know that the "competitiveness-employment-training" panel of experts had said, for the 1.9% requirement, that the working environment should be clarified and, in particular, that the rate of 1.9% should be objective. Building on the need to clarify and objectiveize, the government has removed the sanctions component for companies and sectors that do not meet their investment obligation for the benefit of worker training. So, rather than providing for a training chapter in which one is objective, one responds to the college of experts, one goes in a completely different direction! The index jump is made, i.e. the wages of workers are reduced, and for companies, the penalties for those who do not comply with their training obligation are eliminated. That's what I find shocking too! This has nothing to do with job promotion! On competitiveness, the government says, whenever asked, that this was necessary, that the problem of the wage gap had to be addressed. What was said earlier, I repeat, is a little weird. What was said about the CD&V convention, before the elections, is not "We will not touch indexing, but perhaps we will make index jumps" – sometimes the CD&V is expressed like that, in the non-said, there are a lot of things. That is not what has been said! What has been said is that the elimination of wage disadvantage will not be achieved by reducing people's wages. What are you doing? You're cutting people's wages! In addition, should an index jump be made to close the wage gap? The answer is negative. The measures of the competitiveness pact decided under the former government and the evolution of wages in Germany, France and the Netherlands - our three reference countries - make it possible to close the gap without any problems and with moderate wage increases as negotiated with the social partners. The secretary of the Central Economic Council was able to say that the gap would be absorbed in two years without an index jump. In other words, competitiveness is an excuse for taking action against workers. As there is, at the same time, no obligation to hire companies, they will be able to take full advantage of this gift without hiring. I believe that this is a serious impediment to employment policies in general and to growth in particular. It's a policy of austerity. We should not try to explain that it was necessary, justify it by the wage gap, etc. That's not true! It is simply a policy of austerity. Why, in this context, are we not looking at developments, particularly at European level? At European level, they have actually advocated austerity policy on austerity policy. For years, we have resisted and set the course. We refused to use this index jump, because it seemed to us that austerity was not the solution to the problems arising from the economic and financial crisis. And the numbers obviously give us reason. Because of austerity policies, there have been 3.7 million more poor people in Europe since 2008. You hear that number! It is not I who quotes it, it is Eurostat. In this context, Europe is saying – Mr Juncker has been quite clear – that we now need to change our register: we need policies for recovery. And as they say that, the right-wing government, liberated, will attack the purchasing power of the Belgians by making an index jump. This is an unfair and truly ineffective measure when we need a stimulus. Finally, this is the last sector I will discuss in the context of the review of this project: tax and social justice. Here too, the word is injustice! It is the red thread that runs throughout this document. Like, in particular, MM. Daerden, Massin, Delizée and others made this point in committee - the coincidences of the calendar sometimes make things right or wrong - the day this project was discussed in committee, it was announced in the press that this year the BEL20 companies will distribute nearly 11 billion euros to their shareholders, i.e. about the effort the government must make by 2018. In spite of this, no effort is required of shareholders, while workers, pensioners and other social beneficiaries will suffer, as I have explained, losses of income. That is what is really unbearable! Article 3 of the draft will remove provisions of the Competitiveness Act. However, these provisions show that twenty years ago, when Jean-Luc Dehaene's government imposed a moderation of wages, he had also imposed efforts on the beneficiaries of other income, such as dividends, fees, tantèmes, the tariffs of notaries and judicial officers. With this in mind, could the government not have at least advocated a policy of effort that would cover all revenues? It was not his choice. Dividends, tantèmes, tariffs, insurance and energy prices will continue to rise as workers' wages decline. That's what I was telling you: injustice as the red thread of this project! Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, yes, I find this bill and this index jump particularly shocking. It is totally unfair for the population that we impoverish and inefficient in terms of economic growth. A symbolic measure was needed to show the breakup. Not the break with the past because index jump is an old recipe used in the 1980s, but a break in the policies of the previous government directed towards the concern for the well-being of the population: de kracht van verandering. On devrait peut-être d'ailleurs parler the power of the solutions of the past. I complain to those who, in the majority, do not enthusiastically approve this kind of policy but have to undergo it. At the same time, I think it questions the sincerity of their convictions. Compromise is always necessary in our country; it is obvious. But "promote" does not mean "submission" and the cowardice that can be associated with it. This project is totally unfair. It shows that this government is strong in imposing bad measures on the weak and strong in order to preserve the rich at all costs. That is why I find it not only shocking, but also shameful for our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip038x.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, as agreed, we shall now close the sitting. We'll take it back at 2:15. There will be a Conference of Presidents now. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Tuesday 21 April 2015 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Tuesday, 21 April 2015, at 2.15 p.m.
