ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u1	Question No 2968 by Mrs Matz was prematurely placed on the agenda. This issue will be dealt with later. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Smeyers' 3659 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u2	Mr President, Minister, in the meantime, the new Halle-Vilvoorde Public Prosecutor has been working for a year. It was the result of the reform of the then judicial district of BHV. Unfortunately, it has not become a fully-fledged judicial arrondissement, but in many respects it is still dependent on the judicial arrondissement of Brussels. We warned at the time that the judicial district of Halle-Vilvoorde would be a severely handicapped arrondissement. At the time, when the reform was being discussed in 2012, we also warned that it would have serious consequences for the administration of justice in Halle-Vilvoorde because these structures will not work as they should. In the meantime, unfortunately, the facts are right. The governor of Flemish Brabant, Mr De Witte, already pulled the emergency brake by pointing out that the number of burglaries in the Flemish edge is relatively much higher than in the rest of Flanders. The numbers aren't lying about it. The governor also pointed out that the Justice Department is unable to address this problem adequately because of a number of structural problems facing the Halle-Vilvoorde judicial district. In concrete terms, he pointed to two major problems. Firstly, the department of the federal judicial police would be short of 33 on a frame of 97 investigators. There would also be a shortage of staff in other police departments of the public prosecutor's office. Secondly, there is no separate technical investigation, so that the Brussels services, which are not always available, should be called upon to do so. According to the governor, the technical lab in Halle-Vilvoorde would be much less involved than in the other judicial districts and the Brussels services would even have announced that they would no longer make their Crime Scene Investigation department available to Halle-Vilvoorde as of next year. My specific questions are as follows, Minister. Do you confirm that there are obvious staff shortages in the Halle-Vilvoorde judicial arrondissement, as the governor cites? Can you give an overview of the frameworks, of the real occupation of the various services? Are you prepared to remedy this? What's your response to the governor's statements regarding the crime scene? Will you do something about that? It is clear that the judicial arrondissement of Halle-Vilvoorde is structurally inefficient due to various handicaps which have been imposed by the legislator. Are you thinking of measures to remedy this and to turn Halle-Vilvoorde into a fully-fledged judicial district with the necessary structures, staff and resources to deal effectively with crime?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u3	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat what has already been said, nor will I exhaust my speaking time associated with an interplay. So I'm going straight to the essence. Only yesterday, in preparation for the meeting of the Police Council for the Vilvoorde-Machelen zone, I had to publish a number of figures, which a mayor cannot be proud of. Indeed, unlike many other arrondissements, we have seen a significant increase in certain types of crime, such as home invasions, in recent months. Police and security services are immediately linked to the lack of effective tools to tackle certain circuits and crimes. I give this as an illustration, Minister, because about weekly, at least with a large frequency, some mayor and some policy-maker, police chief, police force, indicates the consequences of the structural underutilisation of the Halle-Vilvoorde court, such as the lack of a lab or always having to rely on the goodwill of, for example, Brussels. It has already been announced that we will no longer be able to call on the Brussels lab from next year. What seems equally problematic to me is the lack of a courthouse. The provincial governor, together with the public prosecutors, has also called for the necessary attention. I want to do this again in turn. You may know that the tasks and tasks of the courts have become increasingly important. Moreover, there is a transfer of powers which I wonder if the Flemish government realizes that it has a competence in making the justice houses work. However, it is essential to close part of the gap between citizens and justice, and if that is to happen somewhere, it is in the former judicial district of Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde and therefore in our city. As you know, I prefer not to do this publicly, but I could give examples of the consequences of the lack of a courthouse on the prevention policy on terrorism, radicalism, returners and so on. We are at risk there, Minister. The people from the outskirts of Brussels must now call on the Brussels Courthouse. That doesn't work out the way it's supposed to. A courthouse in Halle-Vilvoorde is therefore essential. I don't want to see the day the evidence comes up. Minister, I would like to highlight a few quotes from the provincial governor. The members of the provincial security consultation, the administrative authorities and the executives of both local and federal police forces in Flemish Brabant are very concerned. For the security of the inhabitants of Halle-Vilvoorde, it is necessary to provide sufficient staff and resources for the much-needed federal police support to the public prosecutor and to the local police areas. A courthouse in Halle-Vilvoorde is necessary to prepare dossiers, to implement sanctions properly, to accompany people in their reintegration into society, and to guide victims in the maze of justice. In other words, both the provincial and local administrative authorities and the police services at the different levels are very concerned, and I am with them. I hope you're worried with us. The provincial governor has actually been mild in his comparison. You may be aware of his note. He compared the new judicial district of Halle-Vilvoorde with a number of similar arrondissements. In my view, he has been mild by making abstraction of the metropolitan problem, which in our region is more blurred than in other regions. He has also been mild in view of the fact that the demographic explosion that the capital is experiencing is continuing in a number of municipalities and cities on the outskirts, with all the crime phenomena resulting from it. Even if this good comparison is made, about 104 people would have to join it just to get what other judicial districts have. I therefore disagree with the previous speaker on that point. In my opinion, the structures are good, but, just as a good car needs fuel, it is absolutely necessary to provide the population and the administrative and police authorities with a perspective showing that the federal government is working on an equivalent police and security care, including in that part of Flanders. I hope you will be able to say something about this in your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u4	Mr President, Minister, I share the concerns of the previous speakers, although I do not agree with Mr Bonte in the sense that, in my view, the structures may not be ideal. We also expressed our concern about the construction that was set up during the previous legislature. We were satisfied with the creation of a private parquet for Halle-Vilvoorde which now exists for a year. However, we have warned from the outset that we are still dealing with the problem that the courts have only doubled. An additional problem is that there are insufficient resources and there is under-staffing in the courts and tribunals. As a result of the last intervention at the level of the Registrys, the staff of the Dutch-speaking court was transferred to the French-speaking court. As a result, the Dutch-speaking courts have had to take a number of far-reaching measures to achieve a minimum number of posts. I have already asked questions about this. To the extent of disaster, we also have the problem that there will soon be no recourse to the Brussels lab. I've already questioned your fellow Minister Jambon about this. He assured me that a number of steps had already been taken to make the investigations take place. This is good news, but I ask you this question again. Furthermore, the government agreement also states that you will guarantee sufficient resources for the judicial district to develop its own criminal policy. I have the following questions for you, Minister. Firstly, how will you implement this paragraph? How will you ensure that the judicial arrondissement of Halle-Vilvoorde will also be able to fulfil this policy and combat the crimes that are affecting our region most? Secondly, with regard to the lab, how long can we expect measures to ensure that Halle-Vilvoor's trace tests can also be carried out properly? Thirdly, Minister, I have recently questioned you about the problem of transferring the Registrys from the Dutch to the French-speaking side. You then told me that you would seek advice from the Attorney General on the legality of the proceedings. Perhaps you have received this advice in the meantime and I would have liked to hear it from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u5	Mr President, with regard to the first question by Mr Bonte and Mrs Pas, I can only speak about the implementation of the framework of the Halle-Vilvoorde public prosecutor's office. For the occupation of the federal judicial police, the local police and the lab, please refer to colleague Jambon, responsible for Home Affairs. The number of parquet magistrates for the Halle-Vilvoorde parquet was set at 24, of whom 22 are currently present. In view of the coalition agreement, when publishing vacant places within the magistrate, I publish all possible places in the courts and courts of the judicial district of Brussels and the Halle-Vilvoorde parish. The last publication of vacancies dates from early March, but the vacant places of substitute-procuror of the Dutch language role were already published on 18 December. I can therefore inform you today that the files have recently been submitted to the Supreme Court for nomination and that the appointments in the vacant relations are therefore imminent. I must, of course, respect the legal provisions which state that in achieving 95 percent of the framework of a particular language role for a parquet, I may not publish vacancies for that language role until the other language role is filled up at a rate of 95 percent. For the Halle-Vilvoorde parquet, that means 2 vacancies for magistrates. A sum of 100 % will not be possible immediately because I have had to observe that there is no candidate for the 9 recently published French-speaking vacant posts of substitute prosecutor at the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office, despite the general awareness of the vacancies. In the same context, I have learned that the Dutch court of first instance in Brussels cannot deal with the criminal records of the Halle-Vilvoorde parquet as quickly as the King's Attorney of Halle-Vilvoorde would like. Here too, the publication of two vacant relations is not possible for the time being. As far as the court staff of the Halle-Vilvoorde District Court are concerned, at present 4.4 units are missing for a full staff. For this jurisdiction I could provide 1 vacancy in March 2015. However, no candidates have manifested themselves. In reply to Mrs Van Vaerenbergh's first question, I can say that I am taking the necessary steps to properly implement the passage in question concerning the judicial district of Halle-Vilvoorde in the coalition agreement. This naturally presupposes that candidates for the relevant vacant relations are offered. Of course, I will continue to publish the vacant relations, counting, among other things, on the launch of a new set of judicial trainees at the beginning of October 2015, and on the results of the currently envisaged selections for judicial staff. The Halle-Vilvoorde office will also receive its share of the additional resources requested by Mr Bonte and allocated by the government during the recent budgetary control. With regard to the second question by Mr Bonte, Mrs Pas, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh and Mrs Becq on the situation of technical investigations, I should like to refer once again to Mr Jambon, who is responsible for internal affairs. As far as the question of a courthouse is concerned, I have to refer to my competent colleague in the Flemish government. However, in view of the impact of this problem on the criminal law policy pursued, the Attorney General at the Court of Appeal in Brussels has already taken an initiative on the problem of the lab and has consulted the competent prosecutors of the court of appeal. A structural solution is necessary and the prosecutor has given me three ideas. First think. In the womb of the federal judicial police Halle-Vilvoorde, a fully-fledged technical and scientific lab is set up, on which the Halle-Vilvoorde court can appeal. Second piste. Either a joint technical and scientific laboratory is set up for the judicial district of Brussels, on which the Brussels parquet and the Halle-Vilvoorde parquet can equally be called. However, this option should provide sufficient human and material resources to this laboratory and provide legal guarantees that the same quality and timely service will be provided to the procurators of the King of Brussels and of Halle-Vilvoorde, taking into account the priorities of criminal policy they have issued in their administrative districts. Third piste. A joint technical and scientific laboratory shall be set up for the whole of Brussels. This option should also provide sufficient human and material resources to this lab and provide legal guarantees, once again, that the same quality and timely service is guaranteed to the four King's prosecutors, taking into account the priorities of the criminal policy they have issued in their district. Where appropriate, a distinction could be made between the technical laboratory and the scientific laboratory as regards local implantation and centralisation at a higher level. In any case, I will not hesitate to consult Mr Jambon on this matter. I will also continue to consult with the Flemish Community Minister for Welfare on the importance of a properly functioning justice house, responsible for Halle-Vilvoorde. With regard to your third question, Mrs Pas, I am aware that the movements of the magistrates of the Halle-Vilvoorde District Court for hearings of the Dutch-speaking court of first instance in Brussels take time. However, as set out in my Justice Plan, I foresee measures that will allow the prosecutors to reduce their movements for hearings in number, or, as a result of their movements, to expect that the work will not remain on their desks. For example, I wish to make the intervention of the public prosecutor optional in certain cases. So justice is further rationalised by avoiding unnecessary interventions by the public prosecutor as far as possible. The public prosecutor is still informed of all the cases listed and may be asked for advice by the court or court in all other cases, but the public prosecutor's office will give advice only if it considers it appropriate. I would also like the court to decide whether it is to give an oral or written opinion. For the parquet magistrates of Halle-Vilvoorde, this could mean fewer trips to the Dutch courts in Brussels. As a third example, I would like to refer to the planned extension of legal support by public prosecutors. In future, the Chief Constable of the Public Prosecutor will be able to share some of his powers in the handling of legal files, in accordance with the guidelines of the College of Attorneys General, with prosecutors who exercise them under his authority and supervision. This should allow, among other things, to avoid the currently necessary double reading of simple files and to allow the signature of orders from public prosecutors personally. I shall therefore give only a limited number of examples of efficiency gains, which the Halle-Vilvoorde parish should help to deal adequately with crime in the region. However, the reform of criminal law and, above all, criminal procedural law must be the main source of the challenge facing the public prosecutors. Allow me to conclude with your third question, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh. The Attorney General of the Court of Appeal in Brussels is currently preparing his opinion and has asked the prosecutors of the King of Brussels and Halle-Vilvoorde, as supervisory authorities, in accordance with Article 399, 2° and Article 403 of the Code of Justice, on the Registry of the Dutch-speaking Court of First Instance in Brussels, for advice on the legality of the transfer of clerks from the Dutch-speaking Brussels court to the French-speaking Brussels court. I expect his advice in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u6	Mr President, Minister, I will certainly ask your colleague, Mr Jambon, for the figures of the shortage of staff in the federal and judicial police, which you cannot confirm. There are a number of things that I should like to stress, because all the problems that are going on today have been predicted during the negotiations on the division of the courts of Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde. Now it's a little behind the facts. You offer a number of solutions. For example, in relation to the movements of those magistrates who are always facing the traffic infarct towards Brussels, you refer to your Justice Plan in which you want to limit the number of journeys. However, I wonder why these measures were not taken at the time and what the status of the Justice Plan is, because we still have to discuss the government's agreement on this and we still have to wait for the first draft legislation on this. Secondly, you gave three runs in connection with that laboratory, but I would have liked to have some timing on that. From when could one of those slopes be in operation, because the situation as it is today is untenable. It is well known that the cooperation of the Brussels judicial police lab is, to say the least, very difficult and as long as this situation continues with a low chance of clarification, because that is what it comes down to in practice, the edge around Brussels is becoming increasingly attractive to burglar gangs from home and abroad. This is a situation that needs to be addressed as soon as possible. The public prosecutor and the police in Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde must have sufficient resources to deal effectively with this problem of home invasions and all these other forms of crime. As is the case today, the inhabitants of Halle-Vilvoorde are treated as second-class citizens. This is an unacceptable situation which must be rectified as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u7	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you for your answer, because I have the impression that you are trying to drown the fish in your reply. I would be homesick at a time when the government and members of the government were one and indivisible, also in what they had to answer on behalf of that government. I take note of the fact that I have a number of questions to address to Mr Jambon. I have also noted that you will consult with Mr Jambon. In any case, I will draw the attention of my fellow Members from the Flemish Parliament to the fact that Flanders is competent in this matter, but this has been forgotten in part, with all the disastrous consequences. What really upsets me is that you're referring to recruitment problems. You're talking about vacancies that aren't filled. You are referring to mobility problems. Maybe this has something to do with the localization of the parquet. As you know, we have had discussions on this in the past. I now hear what I heard at the time, namely that the location of the parquet is not optimal, not even in terms of efficient working. Minister, with regard to your competence, I do not hear you say anything about extending frameworks. You have simply pointed out that, in the context of the budget discussion and budgetary correction, part of the resources will be reserved for the strengthening of the market. After listening to your answer, I have guessed what that extension, reinforcement or means for the Halle-Vilvoorde parquet can entail. I am really going to sit on my hunger there, including as far as your own authority is concerned. Let me repeat one thing, Minister. There is no argument to give Halle-Vilvoorde, and all the services listed here, less resources than the similar arrondissements. I believe that Governor De Witte's note on that point is good but correct in its calculation. That note is not from yesterday or the day before yesterday, but from the end of last year. If all those who do their utmost, including the parolees, want to maintain their faith, I can only ask you, Minister, to provide a reasonable perspective to strengthen the lab, the courthouse, the parquet... We and the people make no distinction according to who wears which hat, Minister. You're responsible in a federal government. I hope that this federal government will be able to make a serious commitment, because I see, unfortunately, many doubts arise among those who earn their living daily, or this will be the right vocation to pursue tomorrow. For this impatience, I will also table a motion of recommendation in which I ask very goodly to make an equivalent effort on police support and judicial organisation as in similar arrondissements, no more and no less. The 600 000 inhabitants of Halle-Vilvoorde are also entitled to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I really hope that you will continue to insist on obtaining those resources so that Halle-Vilvoorde gets what it is entitled to. This creates the possibility of organising one's own policies. I've already interviewed your colleague Jambon and he did give me a timetable for that lab. I am therefore pleased that both short-term and longer-term measures are being taken so that there are no gaps. I will, of course, come back to my question about that legality shortly. I have to say that the BHV law is obviously very complicated if the Attorney General also has to ask the Procurator of the King for advice. It is a very important dossier that needs to be resolved very quickly. If additional hearings are requested by the public prosecutor, I believe that the public prosecutor is doing a very good job and that more prosecutions are being made. However, there must be a good end to this. It is not possible, then, that there are too few registry staff and not enough magistrates to assess these cases in the Brussels court. This is really unacceptable, as is the fact that, for example, the Registrys are not open in the afternoon so that bourgeois parties can only be held in court during an afternoon. That really is a problem that needs to be resolved in the very short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u9	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Hans Bonte and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Hans Bonte and the Minister of Justice's reply, taking into account: - the fact that more than 600,000 people are entitled to a security policy equivalent to that of the 28 other judicial districts in the judicial district of Halle-Vilvoorde; - the finding that the Arrondissement of Halle-Vilvoorde is facing more and more metropolitan problems; - recent analyses suggesting, unlike other regions, a significant increase in home burglaries in Halle-Vilvoorde; - the observation that almost all democratic political parties have been working for decades for a fully separate judicial district in order to enable an adequate policy of persecution for the Edge; - the gap between citizens and justice for which, among other things, justice houses were established and the absence of a Halle-Vilvoorde justice centre; - the acute security and terrorism risks arising directly from the absence of a courthouse in Halle-Vilvoorde; - the public emergency call of the governor of Flemish Brabant and the prosecutor of the judicial arrondissement of Halle-Vilvoorde to quickly establish a fully equipped judicial service, including a courthouse, in order to ensure an equivalent security policy, and - the unanimous position of all the mayors of Halle-Vilvoorde, asks the federal government - to make rapid progress towards equivalent police support, including the establishment of a courthouse for the Halle-Vilvoorde arrondissement; - take all measures to ensure that the more than 600,000 inhabitants of Halle-Vilvoorde have the same security policy as the inhabitants of other judicial districts and to implement the measures requested by the provincial governor as defined in its note of 18 December 2014." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Hans Bonte and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Hans Bonte and the response of the Minister of Justice, Whereas - the fact that more than 600,000 people live in the judicial district of Hal-Vilvorde and that they are entitled to a security policy equivalent to that of the other 28 judicial districts; - the finding that the Hal-Vilvorde district is increasingly faced with problems related to the status of a large city; - recent analyses indicating that, unlike other regions, Hal-Vilvorde is experiencing an increase in the number of robberies; - that virtually all democratic parties have been campaigning for decades for a fully-fledged judicial district in order to allow for an adequate prosecution policy in the Brussels periphery; - the gap between the citizen and justice, the houses of justice created in this sense and the absence of a house of justice in Hal-Vilvorde; - the significant security and terrorism risks directly related to the absence of a courthouse in Hal-Vilvorde; - call for public assistance from the governor of the Flemish Brabant district and the prosecutor of the Hal-Vilvorde district who wish to reach a judicial service which is fully equipped and which includes a house of justice, in order to guarantee a security policy that is up to date and - the unanimous opinion of all the mayors of Hal-Vilvorde, asks the federal government - quickly create police support and a courthouse for the Hal-Vilvorde district; - take all necessary measures to guarantee to the 600,000 inhabitants of Hal-Vilvorde a security policy identical to that enjoyed by the inhabitants of the other judicial districts and to carry out in that direction the measures requested by the provincial governor as stipulated in his note of 18 December 2014." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Goedele Uyttersprot and Mr Jef Van den Bergh. A simple motion was tabled by Ms Goedele Uyttersprot and Mr Jef Van den Bergh. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. Question No 3783 by Mr Stefaan Van Hecke is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u10	Mr. Chair, Minister, the government agreement announced zero tolerance or intolerance of drug use in public places, even applying to the personal use of cannabis by major consumers. This zero-consumption policy does not convince all actors on the ground or active in helping drug addicts. What appears to be one of the government's priorities is not analysed as the most effective way to combat illegal trade or possible over-consumption. The press tells us that this intransigent policy is now being implemented in Brussels by setting up a pilot project in the Matonge neighbourhood of Ixelles. As a matter of fact, the consumer concerned is proposed to pay a sum of money - basically an immediate transaction - and in the event of a refusal, this person would be referred directly to the correctional court. I imagine that at the end of this project it will be necessary to extend the scope of the prohibition to the whole territory of the Brussels communes, as is already practiced in Antwerp. Fighting drugs and drug trafficking, I can hear it and I support it. However, with regard to cannabis, I am astonished at the breadth and timing of the process. I do not feel that the fight against the adult use of cannabis should be a priority at the time we live. Far from encouraging unregulated consumption and even less habituation, my fear is that it will lead to the exacerbated management of a problem to the detriment of another problem that I think is more serious at the moment. To ignore public tranquillity is an aggravating circumstance, we are told. On this imprecise basis, we can therefore expect the mobilization of our police forces. However, these same law enforcement agencies are currently particularly involved, as you know, in the fight against terrorism, white-collar crime and cybercrime, to name but a few. That should be considered very seriously. What matters today, in the area of cannabis, is that between the 1921 law on the prohibition of consumption and detention and the 2005 law on the tolerance of three grams or a plant for personal use, we have evolved in the face of this problem. Mr Minister, can the accused still refer to the requirement of the 2005 Joint Directive or, on the contrary, can his private use with a maximum of three grams already be punished? If this directive is no longer in force, will a new directive be adopted? If so, within what time frame and with what content? How will citizens be informed of the new rules in this area? Are there any financial and personnel resources available to allow for the questioning of persons who would use cannabis in a public place? If so, what are they? If so, are these means not likely to undermine the budget needed to combat offences that amount to serious crime? Moreover, in view of the fighting that we are waging, is this struggle engaged at an appropriate time? In essence, how is zero tolerance more justified than regulated offer, limited to an adult audience? Don't worry that zero tolerance will increase sales and underground consumption and increase its drifts – rising prices, dubious quality products, etc.- Is that what you're saying? In short, is zero tolerance the right way to reduce or deter private consumption?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u11	Dear colleague, the government agreement is very clear on this government's intentions with regard to drug policy: drug use in public space is not allowed. The circular 2/2005 to which you refer is, in my view, not in contradiction with this position. In this circular, general instructions are given to the investigation and prosecution services for the identification, registration and prioritization of the prosecution of cannabis detention offences. In this regard, the circular states that the detention by a major person of a quantity of cannabis for personal use will, as in the past, be considered to be of the lowest priority in the prosecution policy, unless such detention is accompanied by aggravating circumstances or a breach of public order. These aggravating circumstances are also specified, in particular those set out in Article 2bis of the Law of 24 February 1921. In addition, the circumstances that constitute a disturbance to public order are listed: - the detention of cannabis in a penal institution or in a youth welfare institution; - the detention of cannabis in a school or similar institution or in its immediate vicinity, i.e. places where students gather, meet, such as a public transport stop or a park close to a school; - ostentatious detention of cannabis in a public place or in a place accessible to the public, e.g. a hospital. There is therefore no question of a policy of tolerance and decriminalisation, but of a realistic approach to the problem, adapted to the capacity available and the seriousness of the facts. Moreover, this circular does not prevent a King's prosecutor from giving a local interpretation of these aggravating circumstances in a more specific directive or during certain mass events. The circular explicitly states that the King's Prosecutor will take local circumstances into account and, where appropriate, will provide more specific guidance on this matter. The pilot project launched by the Prosecutor of the King of Brussels for the Matonge district must be considered in this context. The prosecutor told me that this district of Ixelles has been known for years to be a place where cannabis can easily be purchased and where users are able to obtain a large number of supplies. This also implies the presence of dealers, many of whom can be considered as members of urban gangs. Since this is very detrimental to the neighbourhood and its local economy, particularly retail and Horeca, a comprehensive project has been developed at the request of the local police and administrative authorities of the municipality of Ixelles and in consultation with them. The legal approach is only one part and aims to reduce both supply and demand in order to break the vicious circle. With regard to the demand for cannabis by buyers, it was decided to offer buyers a transaction for a period of a few weeks. If the buyer refuses to pay for this transaction, he is immediately brought before the correctional court and the summons to this effect is already served by the police while he is still present in the police station. Finally, I would like once again to stress that, in accordance with article 28quater of the Code of Criminal Procedure, it is the King's prosecutor who decides independently whether to prosecute offences deemed punishable by law, taking into account the guidelines on criminal policy issued by the Minister of Justice, on the advice of the College of Attorneys General, in accordance with article 143quater of the Judicial Code. The defendant cannot derive any rights from these directives and therefore cannot avail himself of such instructions for the police and prosecutors to determine the acts of investigation and prosecution in respect of facts which have been defined as punishable by law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u12	Minister, thank you for your answer. You know as well as I do in Belgium, the policy of prosecution was different from one region to another. Non-problematic detention of three grams was continued in some cases and not in others. This interpretation of which you speak also risks putting into legal insecurity the citizen, who is entitled to know what behaviour will be pursued and what behaviour will not be. As I was also telling you, I don't think that the outright ban is the best way to ensure that people don't consume anymore. It is also an important issue of public health and the fight against habituation, rather than pursuing a hypocritical ostrich policy in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u13	Mr Minister, Mrs Özen and I do indeed share the interest of being kept informed of the state of play in dealing with potential radicalisation in our prisons. Many steps have already been taken in the fight against radicalisation. A not to forget and important point in this is also the prevention of further radicalisation and active work on deradicalisation in our prisons and other institutions, where, for example, young people are being taken care of. Many studies and reports have already shown, and explained several times, that many radicalized people develop more extreme thoughts during their stay in the cell. Separating the extremists from the other prisoners may prove to be a step in the right direction. I have also read in your action plan that in the prisons of Bruges and Ittre there would be specialised departments at the end of this year. In this way one does not directly distinguish between extremely radicalised persons and moderate to less radicalised persons. Moderately radicalised people are just the most vulnerable group, on which one can influence both positively, with deradicalisation programmes, and negatively, further radicalised by extreme radicalized ones. Minister, how do you intend to respond to this? The way in which prisoners and especially young people are radicalised is different in several cases. I'm thinking about the Internet or friends. Is there therefore no need for a specific approach in these various cases? The Action Plan also mentions that networks and the confirmation of ideas can be created in the same prisons. The proposed deradicalisation programme is already looking good, but some depth and specific concerns are not yet taken directly into account. Finally, I wonder what happens to the detainees when deradicalisation does not seem to work. Does he or she have an effective chance to re-integrate?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u14	Mr President, Minister, the press reports that the number of detainees for terrorism is increasing. You recently reported that on 15 March 2015, the number of these detainees had been increased to 61, and that 55 of them had not yet been convicted. Thus, it appears that a majority of these detainees are currently in pre-trial detention. In doing so, some of them could be released and cleared of suspicion. Your plan against radicalization in prison indicates that prisoners at risk of "contagion of radicalization" should be detected by the prison staff trained in this regard. For example, by January 2016, e-learning is planned for existing staff and an integrated module for the basic training of future candidates. In addition, it seems that members of the various directorates and psychosocial workers should receive one-day training again this year. The deradicalization process should be systematically implemented for prisoners suspected of being radicals, using Islamic advisers. You have also announced the commitment of nine advisors by the end of the year, increasing the number of these advisors to twenty-seven. Finally, you said that this plan would be carried out with the aim of carrying out as human, individual and personal a policy as possible. Minister, do you confirm that the majority of detainees for terrorist or terrorist-related offences are currently in pre-trial detention? When will the deradicalization program be implemented? When will the radicalized or suspected radicalist inmate be taken over? Is there any specific psychological follow-up for these detainees? If so, from when will this follow-up be carried out? Will care take place immediately upon incarceration or after conviction? Is the visit of an Islamic adviser to deradicalization proposed or planned? Will the number of Islamic counselors in prisons be sufficient, given the current prison population and the problems we face? You also talked about individual and personal politics. What exactly are the measures envisaged? What are the criteria for these measures? Will the training of prison staff allow them to objectively assess the likelihood of radicalization? What guarantees can you give us in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u15	Madame Özen, Mr Metsu, deradicalisation is a difficult issue, which demands the commitment from different angles. The fact that it is a young person and the way it has been radicalized are only part of the story. Within the prisons, the necessary efforts will be made to address the problem, in consultation with the Communities and the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium. In order to set up a deradicalisation programme, the action plan provides that we will, among other things, use foreign expertise. For this purpose, we call for the necessary budgets to be definitively adopted. At present, therefore, we cannot present a concrete project. Where possible, a differentiated approach will be pursued. If, in an individual case, no result is obtained, it is not legally possible to hold a prisoner longer than the sentence pronounced by the judge, on the basis of a radical thought. Vice versa, however, a positive result can be taken into account in the context of the early exemption. With regard to the 60 detainees detained for terrorist offences, it was true that only six of them had been finally convicted. In collaboration with Islamic consultants and the Belgian Muslim Executive, we will determine what role the Islamic consultant will play in the approach to deradicalization. Our intention is to use Islamic consultants as much as possible in both the ordinary prison sections and the special sections for radicalized prisoners. Prison directors were also invited to consult regularly at the local level with Islamic consultants. We intend to complement and strengthen the cadres of Islamic consultants. In this regard, however, we must take into account the budgetary limits. To the extent possible, we hope to meet some needs with volunteers who can assist Islamic consultants. In particular, the training of staff must enable us to increase the potential for observation in prison institutions. On the one hand, we want to prevent many signals that are rather associated with innocent and unsuspecting faith being considered as potentially problematic, but, on the other hand, we also want to ensure that those who really pose problems are detected. By investing in the expertise of staff who are in daily contact with inmates, we will certainly be able to carry out, in the long run, a better analysis of the radicalization processes in our prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u16	I note, Minister, that you are ready to make the necessary efforts and that you are also emphasising the differentiated approach, which we can only welcome. It is neither surprising nor secret that there is no denying the potential for deradicalisation of moderate radicalised people, and we must try to deal with these people as adequately as possible. I look forward to seeing what these efforts will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am pleased to hear that you are going to work with the Islamic Communities and consultants and that you are going to approach the detainees with a differentiated and individualized approach. You have not answered the question of whether these people will be cared for directly, even in pre-trial detention, or whether we will wait for the conviction. You know that sometimes there is a great deal of time between pre-trial detention and conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u18	Question No 3849 by Mr David Clarinval is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u19	Mr Minister, the situation of citizens has highlighted a very interesting issue. Indeed, it would appear that our legislation does not provide for a waiver of the separation of the spouses. When a couple decides to reverse as part of a body separation, no provision is made if the couple recovers together. You have certainly understood what legal consequence I might have in this case. On the other hand, the doctrine states that the separation of bodies is extinguished by reconciliation without further precision. The doctrine therefore does not state whether the waiver is to be found by a registrar or by a body of your administration. In March 2015, the Prosecutor of the King of Tournai confirmed, by giving an opinion in a file, that Belgian legislation does not provide for any means of ending the separation of bodies. This opinion of the prosecutor's office therefore leaves the whole problem. Minister, my questions are as follows. Who, then, is competent to act on the reconciliation of a couple when a court decision has been taken in the event of a separation of bodies: the registrar or a court or another body of the SPF Justice? Shouldn't we plan or adapt our legislation in this area? This could have very interesting consequences. There is a lot of thought in this legislature about the reform of justice and pensions. But this non-clarification of civil status in this case may be problematic.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u20	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, the reconciliation of the spouses puts an end to the separation of bodies. At present, this reconciliation does not require the intervention of any judicial or extrajudicial body. It manifests itself in proof of the resumption of common life. Even if the Civil Code does not enshrine the competence of an authority to act on this reconciliation, I do not see a need to amend it to remedy it. In fact, unlike a divorce decision, a divorce decision does not have any consequences for the person's condition. The spouses are still married and do not have the opportunity to enter into a new marriage. The separation of bodies only affects their duty of cohabitation and assistance as well as the matrimonial regime, which is then converted into a regime of separation of property. On the other hand, the duties of fidelity and relief, the right to use the spouse's name or any social benefit arising from marriage, such as survivors' or retirement pensions, are maintained. As a result of reconciliation, marriage is re-established in all its previous obligations, provided, however, that the matrimonial property separation regime is maintained. In addition, I think it is worth recalling that, although the law does not provide for systematic intervention by the judicial authorities or the registrar, spouses often resort to the notary to rehabilitate the matrimonial regime and convert it, for example, into a community regime. Thus, even in the absence of a reconciliation decision, their will to reorganize their marital life is formalized in an authentic act. In view of the above, I do not consider it necessary to adapt the relevant legal provisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u21	Minister, thank you very much for this clarification. So I'm going to pass on this information. Your answer will be able to enlighten those who are still in the dark, especially some people who still doubt the interpretation to be given. I also thank you for taking the lead in mentioning matrimonial regimes and their notarial consequences, for I had not asked this question and even thought I had made a mistake.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u22	Mr President, Minister, recently we saw another ghost in the media, in particular the construction of two additional casinos. More specifically, a connection was made with the Antwerp mayor who would have something to do with this project. We could also read that the casino federation does not like these plans at all. According to the casino federation, casinos in Belgium are financially at the edge of the abyss. The Gaming Commission also confirms that downward spiral. There are a number of explanations for this, such as anti-money laundering legislation and high taxes, smoking ban and so on. Reportedly, the decline would have started ten years ago. In the meantime, there seems to be much less staff in these casinos and so on. By this I mean that, at least as the media has shown, the sector itself does not like it either. If it has indeed been as bad as the casino sector itself claims for years, why has the government included the construction of these casinos in the government agreement? Are these plans being implemented, as we seem to be getting more and more knowledge of these facts?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u23	Mr President, the coalition agreement is indeed talking about an extension of two casinos. The channelisation assignment for gambling means that a sufficiently attractive but regulated offer of gambling is available. If we want to protect the vulnerable player, there must be an attractive market, otherwise the vulnerable player will easily move to another Member State or an illegal website, and we have no control over it. The gambling sector is more than the casinos. There are also bets, playrooms, gaming machines in cafés, media games, tombolas, lotteries and so on. Besides exploitation in the real world, there is also exploitation in the world online. The total gambling policy cannot therefore be narrowed to what is in the government agreement in relation to the casinos. A sufficiently strong regulator should be able to manage the gambling policy and balance a healthy market, with adequate protection of the player, in particular the minor player. That is what I am asking the Gaming Commission in particular. The government won't build any extra casinos. It will be private companies developing a commercial project within the legal framework. These companies must obtain a concession from the municipality and apply for a licence from the Gaming Commission, which ensures that all legal conditions are respected when applying for and exercising the licence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u24	Minister, at least the first part of your answer is the same as the last time I asked you a question about the casinos. I can literally look it up here. I must honestly say that the answer is absolutely not satisfactory. Of course, we must offer adequate protection to the user and especially to young people. Whether this should be done by adding two casinos, however, I dare to doubt most strongly. After what I read more and more often in the media, I really cannot get rid of the impression that there are other interests other than just protecting the consumer and young people. In any case, thank you for the answer and we will continue to follow this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u25	Minister, I have already asked you this question in the past. In the framework of the Strategic Action Plan Limburg in the Quadrat (SALK), the previous government had committed itself to building a new prison in Limburg, in particular in Leopoldsburg. The construction of this is also mentioned in the SALK report, but the plans are not mentioned in the coalition agreement. I have still not received a clear answer to my previous question to you. You replied last time that the project is part of Master Plan 3 of the Global Justice Plan. However, that plan is still unclear. Hence I ask my questions again, because the project would provide 300 extra jobs in Limburg. Are the plans made being implemented? What will the timeline be? If the plans are not implemented, what are the reasons for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u26	Mrs Kitir, during the previous legislature, a new project for the construction of a prison in Leopoldsburg has indeed started. The project is not part of the master plan 1 and 2, but it will be part of the exercise that is being made in relation to the new, modified master plan 3. The previous government has decided that all preparations can be made and that the site has already been acquired. The deed for the acquisition of the land is already in place. The other aspects are currently being prepared. I refer to my Justice Plan under point 4.1.4.1 on the modernisation of penitentiary infrastructure. It clarifies that the existing master plan will be amended to submit a new master plan 3 for approval by the summer of 2015. It will be only after this that the details of possible projects can be communicated within the framework of the plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u27	Minister, I still find it strange that you do not want to confirm that the prison is being built in Limburg. You will always refer to the new master plan 3, which will cover the new projects. I do not understand why you find it so difficult to say that, but I will certainly question you again after the summer, because it is a very important dossier for Limburg.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u28	Mr President, Minister, at the moment, the King's attorneys have office cars – and sometimes not just one; I have heard up to three or four – and can have at their disposal, for about 100 euros a month, many advantages, in addition to the car, such as vehicle maintenance, fuel card, paid insurance costs, tire trains, etc. The auditors, for their part, do not seem to benefit from the same benefits despite numerous requests sent to the department. Many of them find themselves with very high fuel costs and mileage at the end of the month. Minister, how can we justify that auditors do not benefit from service vehicles when it is the case of the King's prosecutors? I said, while you were talking to Mrs. Kitir, that sometimes three or even four vehicles are made available to the King's prosecutor, depending on his borough or his importance. How can we justify that auditors do not benefit from the same advantages as the King's attorneys, i.e. 100 euros per month for car-related expenses? How can this difference be rectified and the auditors be offered the same compensation that is currently available to King's attorneys for their cars? If possible, how soon could this be done?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u29	Mr Massin, the King's prosecutors do not benefit from an official vehicle. On the other hand, the public prosecutor's offices, in terms of the degree of proceedings and the degree of appeal, benefit from the use of a service vehicle. This modality dates back to 1998 and involved the transfer of 38 vehicles from the judicial police to the public prosecutor's offices and the public prosecutor's offices. This transfer follows the agreement reached in the concertation council between the administration and the general police station. The reason for the transfer to the Public Prosecutor's Office by headquarters was that the use was very common and that during the raids on the premises the judges of the public prosecutors' offices and public prosecutors' offices also took place in the vehicles of the judicial police. Over the years, the task has expanded, but to a limited extent, taking into account this initial agreement, the views of the Finance Inspectorate on the matter and the budgetary possibilities. The vehicle is assigned to a public prosecutor's office or a general prosecutor's office, but there is nothing to prevent a vehicle from being used by the labour auditor's office or by courts and tribunals. Mutualizations and good practices are very common. The 100 euros you are talking about refer to the "advantages of any kind" (ATN), which is a tax concept that is only applicable when heads of bodies opt for the use of the service vehicle for moving from home to work. It is obvious that these magistrates are putting themselves in order on the tax front. Finally, for judges and judicial personnel who regularly travel on duty and who do not have a service vehicle, a kilometric quota may be requested from the administration. The implementing rules are laid down annually in a circular for the attention of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u30	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. To make things clear, in my question, I have never spoken of a vehicle as a function, I have always spoken of a service vehicle. I can understand that this faculty has been in place since 1998 but I find it a little light that your administration justifies it by the fact that the King's prosecutors or the substitutes of the King's prosecutor accompany the judicial police to make the raids. As far as I know, auditors are also raiding for a control of social laws or labour inspection. There are still a lot of them at the moment because it is decided to carry out comprehensive socio-economic checks in many cities and municipalities. This has also been done since 1998 and would therefore have meant that the auditors could have benefited from it as well. The idea of mutualisation seems quite interesting to me, but by circular you would have to warn the various officials within the new boroughs. Clearly, the prerogatives of use belong exclusively to prosecutors or substitutes since 1998. On the other hand, I take note of what you have told me about the benefits of all kinds. As far as the kilometric quota is concerned, the problem of the repayment period arises. The head of an important department, such as the auditorate, sometimes has to carry out tens of thousands of kilometres a year. If I take the province of Hainaut, which is quite extensive, traveling the distance Tournai-Charleroi several times a week, is equivalent to traveling several tens of thousands of kilometers a year. These costs are advanced, so it would be good for the Department of Justice to reimburse them as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u31	Mr President, Minister, on the website "Portail Belgium.be, official information and services", it is stated that a paternal or maternal recognition in case of a homosexual couple, of an unmarried couple can be made from the sixth month of pregnancy. It was in fact a notion that I had already heard and that had made me react because I did not see why a future father or a future mother, in the context of a homosexual couple, could not recognize her child from the moment of conception, which would guarantee, for example, her filiation with the child in case of accidental death before her birth - before the six months of pregnancy in the hypothesis that we are in. However, despite extensive research, it is impossible to find a legal basis for this obligation to wait six months of pregnancy. What is not my astonishment when I call a few municipal administrations in Brussels or in the Walloon Brabant which tell me that there is no obligation for them to wait for this six-month period. They also indicate to me that they accept recognition from conception with a medical certificate attesting to pregnancy. However, like the municipality in which I am a mayor, Jemeppe-sur-Sambre, it is clear from my research that other municipalities, on the other hand, apply this deadline. These administrations are certainly inspired by the information or recommendations provided by the official website. Minister, there is no need for a legislative amendment since the requirement to wait for six months of pregnancy before being able to recognize your child as an unmarried couple would not be based on any legal prescription. The official website states an erroneous obligation. Will you modify it quickly so as not to induce future parents into error? Do you not think that it would be appropriate to send a circular to the various municipal administrations to indicate this error and remind them that the law does not require any period of pregnancy to make a recognition so that all parents are on the same footing of equality from one municipality to another?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u32	Mr President, Mrs Thoron, the Civil Code (Articles 328(3) and 328bis) provides for the possibility of performing prenatal recognition. There are no conditions for this to be done. The only requirement is that the child be designed, which may justify a medical certificate being requested by the registrar to prove pregnancy. This prenatal recognition is only effective if the child is born alive and viable. I don't know where this information comes from about the six-month delay that appears on the site "Portail Belgium.be", but my administration will take the necessary steps to make it disappear. This information does not appear on the Justice FPS website. I do not consider it necessary to send a circular to the communes to recall the conditions of prenatal recognition. There are already two circulars which specify these conditions: the circular of 22 May 1987 concerning the application of the Act of 31 March 1987 amending various legal provisions relating to filiation and the circular of 7 May 2007 concerning the Act of 1 July 2006 amending provisions of the Civil Code relating to the establishment of filiation and its effects. The circular of 22 December 2014 on the new law of 5 May 2014 on comaternity refers to the above-mentioned circular of 7 May 2007. No mention is made in these circulars of a ban on recognition before six months of the child's conception. Civil registrars do not need other circulars to properly interpret the provisions of the Civil Code concerning prenatal recognition. The correction of the site "Portail Belgium.be" therefore seems to me a sufficient measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u33	Minister, thank you for that clarification. I understand that a circular is probably not the best thing to do. However, in order for all citizens, all couples, to be treated in the same way, the mayors may need to be sensitized or this information may have to be communicated so that the situation is the same everywhere. I thank you, in any case, for clarifying the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u34	Mr.President, Mr.Minister, you will certainly also have followed him in the press, even though the francophones may have paid more attention to him, since they are following the French media: on Thursday, April 23, 2015, a 7-year-old French girl was abducted in her village and found healthy and saved a few hours later about 100 kilometres from her place of life. As a first step, it was clearly not clear that it was indeed a kidnapping. The abduction warning system in France, known and set up a few years ago, has been particularly rapid and effective. It is quite probable that it was thanks to this device that this little girl could be found so quickly, no doubt by the pressure exerted in a certain way on the perpetrator of the abduction. Mr Minister, the reason why I would like us to come to the situation is that this mechanism was triggered extremely quickly, even though it was not so sure that it was a kidnapping at first. This rapid reaction is impressive. On the other hand, the diffusion width is also very challenging. This is not just a call for abduction or disappearance of a child, but a massive communication, whether on motorways or on television, in a permanent banner at the bottom of the broadcasts. This information is given not only once after the weather but continuously, as well as in the media and on social networks. It's an extremely massive broadcast. Minister, we have procedures in place, including the Child Alert. How long is it necessary between the announcement of the suspicious disappearance of a child and the efficient initiation of proceedings? Would it not be possible to make our system as massive as in France, for example by having agreements with televisions, the media, the blogosphere, internet networks, etc., so that broadcasting is more important than what exists today? What is the coordination between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior and with Child Focus to be even faster and more massive than can be done today when it is necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u35	Mrs Fonck, the intervention of the police and judicial services and the support of Child Focus are specified in the Ministerial Directive of 20 February 2002 on the search for missing persons. This directive is public and can therefore be easily consulted. In particular, it provides that any declaration of disappearance must be taken immediately and that there can be no question of inviting registrants to wait a few hours before they come forward. In addition, the Directive provides for very specific rules where a disappearance is considered to be of concern. This will be the case if it meets at least one of the listed criteria, including the fact that the disappeared person is under thirteen years of age. The police must begin to act without delay. The directive sets out the immediate duties to be performed. The magistrate on duty must be notified immediately. In the event of a disturbing disappearance, the latter must also inform the Victim Reception Department of the Department of Justice and, where appropriate, Child Focus. In addition, the Attorney General must be informed. The Directive also provides that when a disappearance is deemed to be of concern, a coordination meeting will be held as soon as possible in the light of developments in information and the means used. The meeting shall be chaired by the judge in charge of the case. It is attended by the reference magistrate, the police and, if deemed necessary by the magistrate, the Missing Persons Unit and Child Focus. The purpose of the meeting is to assess the situation, define the investigation strategy, establish rules for the operation and coordination of the investigation and appoint a police coordinator. Finally, the Ministerial Directive recently introduced the possibility of using the "Child Alert" process. In addition to conventional search notices, this is a search notice intended to reach the widest possible audience in real time, in the event that the life of a minor is in immediate danger, with the aim of finding the missing minor safe and sound. Our procedures do not seem to be lacking in speed or efficiency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u36	Mr Minister, thank you for recalling this directive and its content. But I wanted to take one more step. I have never seen in Belgium, since the Child Alert has already been used, such a massive diffusion by all communication networks, whether audiovisual media or the Internet, via social networks. Minister, contacts or even agreements could be made with the audiovisual media, but it may be Child Focus that could take the initiative. Of course, the media are a matter for the community. Whatever. I think the game is worth it. It would be desirable for agreements to be reached with regard to this permanent and rapid dissemination in the first few hours of a kidnapping, as shown here in the French model, which copied another "Alert Abduction" device, i.e. the British device, it seems to me. This model had been copied and was more massive. I leave the proposal on the table and intend to make contact with Child Focus.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u37	Minister, a few weeks after the doctors suddenly refused to proceed with Mr. Van den Bleeken, euthanasia which had been authorized by the Brussels Court of Appeal and for which everything had been put in place, even his farewells, you had announced that he would be transferred to a psychiatric institution in the Netherlands. We were at the end of January 2015. However, more than three months after your statement, he is still at the Federal Legal Psychiatry Centre in Ghent, where he started a hunger strike. The advice of Mr. Van den Bleeken indicated that his client had never been an internment applicant in Ghent, but at the most he agreed to do so in the hope of being interned in the Netherlands, if there was no euthanasia. Mr. Van den Bleeken, detained for sexual and repeat offences, declared that he was incurable, refusing his early release. He also stated that he was suffering from the inhuman conditions of his detention, in an institution that did not have the necessary care for a detainee of his type. Today, the conditions he imposes are no more human, but it is to you, minister, that he says he directs his gesture. What about the transfer to the psychiatric care facility in the Netherlands? Have you met with your counterpart to finalize this transfer? Is this transfer permanently sealed or do you encounter any particular difficulties that would justify the delay in closing this file? How long could this transfer be effective?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u38	Mr President, Minister, since 2013, Frank Van den Bleeken has been asking to be transferred to a Dutch TBS clinic for an adapted treatment for sexual offenders. The Dutch politicians could not go into that at the time, because they want to reduce their TBS clinics and prisons, on the one hand, and fear of precedents, on the other. This turned out to be the reason for Frank Van den Bleeken's second euthanasia application, which was refused at the beginning of this year, or at least not carried out. Meanwhile, he has been transferred to the FPC in Ghent. I read in the press that Mr Van den Bleeken has been on hunger strike for three weeks now. That way, he wants to sue for wanting to clarify his future. He still asks for euthanasia because of his unbearable psychological suffering. After more than thirty years of detention without any treatment, Mr Van den Bleeken has now been admitted to the FPC in Ghent. The purpose of this recording is to provide proper care for the prisoner. That is, of course, the basis of internment. The fact that, despite these new circumstances, he continues to sue the situation leads to amazement. This leads me to the following questions. Firstly, how is, apart from this particular case, dealing with interned people who refuse help? Secondly, Belgium and the Netherlands have the possibility to conclude a treaty to accommodate Belgian interns in the Netherlands. I do not read in the Flemish and Dutch press any consensus, or at least no clarity. Can you clarify and possibly give more information about any contacts in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u39	Mr President, ladies Özen and Uyttersprot, in January, I informed you and your colleagues of my intention to organise a long-term residence facility in Belgium for interns who need long-term care rather than intensive treatment. This objective is also described in my Justice Plan. Over the past few months, I have been looking for an appropriate environment to be able to set up this institution in the best possible conditions. Together with the Minister of Social Affairs of the Flemish Government, Mr. Jo Vandeurzen, I have chosen to organize a temporary facility for long-term care inmates on the campus of the Rekem Public Centre for Psychiatric Care. This issue is a political priority. Moreover, a second consultation meeting is being held today with the representatives of my colleague the Minister of Health, Mrs Maggie De Block. In this department there is also the will to develop this institution under the best possible conditions and in the short term. Despite the impetus I have given to the Belgian dossier, which I will support in the coming weeks, I retain the ambition to be able, in the meantime, to transfer the intern concerned to a specialized institution of the State in the Netherlands, called TBS Inrichting – Center medico-legal. A working visit of my services is scheduled for next week. That same week, I will also meet with the new Dutch Minister of Justice. On the margins of this international meeting, I will talk to him about this issue. Mrs Uyttersprot, you asked me how the FPC in Ghent deals with interned people who refuse help. The simple fact that an interned person is staying in the FPC is in itself a form of care for this person. It is difficult to talk about a total refusal due to an interned, given the caring environment in which this person resides. The administration of this care is also a form of treatment in itself. All internees are first admitted to the observation unit. The duration of the stay in this unit is three to four months and is finally determined by the psychiatrists responsible at the FPC in Ghent. Following this phase, the intake will be in a treatment unit, where treatment will be restarted for each individual interned. The specific content of the treatment is determined by the responsible parties of the FPC, without, of course, being subject to forced treatment. The caring attention to the person of the interned is always guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am delighted to hear that you have the will to transfer this inmate to a specialized institution in the Netherlands. I am even happier to learn that, even if it is in the long run, there is a political will to create this kind of institution in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. At the moment, it is difficult to assess whether it is true that Mr Van den Bleeken is refusing any treatment, since he is still in observation. It would, of course, be a pity to refuse treatment for every interned person, because the added value of internment is care and treatment. The problem does indeed require political courage. I notice that you are showing this and that you are making it a political priority of internment, especially in view of long stays and the current lack of them in Belgium. Your conversation next week will certainly be helpful. I would like to suggest that, by analogy with the treaty for prisoners in Tilburg prison, such cooperation should be considered, but I note that a transfer will be envisaged in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u42	Mr President, Minister, the press informs us that the number of lawyers in Brussels is at least 18,000, which, according to a lawyer in Antwerp, would lead to "unfair competition", a market in the teeth of a saw, but also, for some advice, to living conditions close to poverty. To avoid the indefinite growth of bars, leads are launched by this lawyer: a numerus clausus and the modification of the conditions of internship with the aim of making it supposedly less easy. These approaches do not seem to be feasible, at least in two respects. We must not lose sight of the fact that the law student can go to the lawyer but that other opportunities are offered to him. The numerus clausus would therefore make victims on the basis of a presumption. As far as the conditions of the traineeship are concerned, I believe that they are currently quite heavy: a remuneration in negative correlation with the hours worked on behalf of a traineeship master, combining obligations relating to the internship, CAPA courses, training and the free legal aid which you intend to impose on them very soon. Mr Minister, is a numerus clausus, with the negative consequences that have been drawn from it with regard to medical studies, in consideration? Will the reform of the probationary conditions provide for "a mechanism to prevent a young person from pleading before he has passed a qualifying test worthy of the name"? Is this not an obstacle to the training of the young suitor as a lawyer? Do you consider that, in its present form, the internship is below the requirements of the profession? If so, what is the point? In terms of reform of traineeship conditions, what should be expected? Will it be taken into account that the financial conditions of the trainees are already an obstacle to the completion of the internship for some?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u43	Mr President, Mrs Özen, I, like you, have just read Mr Dyck's statements on the number of lawyers and the reforms he is proposing. The fact that there are many lawyers in our country is well founded. But this has to do not only with access to the profession but also with issues such as the judicialization of society and the complexity of the social context. I do not currently have plans to introduce a numerus clausus. It is not an advantage to introduce a prohibition to plead for beginners. Today's internship obligations, which include legal examinations, already offer important guarantees for the training of our lawyers. At the level of orders, a lot of work has already been done in the context of the reform of vocational training for trainees. This reform will undoubtedly contribute to the quality of service provided by lawyers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u44	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am reassured to hear you say that there will be no numerus clausus imposed for lawyers or changes in probationary conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u45	Mr President, Minister, the Court of Auditors recently carried out an audit of the staff of the registries and prosecutors' secretariats. The Court stressed the need to describe, in a manual, all human resources procedures as well as the establishment of fixed control rules and highlighted four points which it felt were lacking. First of all, the Court points to the inadequacy of management. In order to improve this point, it calls for the establishment of future staff cadres on the basis of an objective analysis of needs by court or tribunal. Secondly, it is too long a recruitment deadline that is criticized. The Court refers to a process of recruitment which is too long and which results in a duplication effect induced by the test organised by the Selor and the complementary procedure provided for by the SPF Justice. Thirdly, the Court stresses the lack of access for courts and tribunals to computerised personnel data and their careers. Finally, the Court points to deficiencies in the internal control over the fixing and calculation of salaries. Minister, you said in the press that you had read the report. What analysis do you make of the conclusions of the Court of Auditors? Do you intend to take these into consideration? In the long term, you have said that you want to reduce the workload of courts and tribunals through a debate on their essential tasks. How do you intend to do this and within what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u46	Mr Friart, in his report of 8 April 2015, the Court of Auditors presented the results of its audit of the human resources of the staff of the registries and the secretariats of the public prosecutor's offices, which its College carried out from 13 August 2013 to 1 October 2014. In short, the Court of Auditors calls for a greater involvement of courts and tribunals in personnel management, a strengthening of this management by improving the definition of strategic and operational objectives and the identification of risks, a response to staffing needs by indicating that, so far, the allocation of human resources is carried out within a legal and regulatory framework, the audit confirms that it does not necessarily reflect real needs, and a proper commitment of salaries and remuneration by improving data exchange and expenditure control before submitting them to the Central Fixed Expenditure Service of the Ministry of Finance for payment. These recommendations were forwarded to me on January 7, 2015. In my letter of 10 March, I was able to take advantage of the opportunity offered by the Court of Auditors to share its concerns. You can find a summary of my remarks in Chapter 4 of the report. In practice, in the context of judicial reform, a greater role is played by courts and tribunals in management matters. As the Court notes in point 1.1.4 of the report, this objective has meanwhile entered into the law. The policy on the management of registry and secretariat staff is an integral part of the decentralization of management to headquarters and the public prosecutor's office. Headquarters and Public Prosecutor's Office are currently participating in the FPS Justice Steering Committee. In terms of staffing requirements, and in the current budgetary context, another approach is needed to the application of frameworks. In paragraph 2.2.3 of the report, the Court notes that budgetary constraints cause underoccupation of managers, that managers no longer correspond to actual needs, that courts and tribunals react differently to the savings imposed by increasing the workload, simplifying the work process, focusing on priority tasks or achieving savings through reorganizations. Criticism is expressed for workload assessment exercises. It is difficult to measure these burdens in different contexts and, in some cases, these assessments are no longer up to date. The audit confirms the need to review personnel policy. Budgetary measures do not facilitate this task. Without calling into question the remediation objectives, but while maintaining the continuity and smooth functioning of the justice system, exceptions are sought and obtained in close cooperation with the headquarters and the prosecution service to meet the priorities expressed. In the long run, the objective remains the same: a more efficient justice system through greater decentralization of courts and tribunals. To this end, a number of initiatives are being taken, ranging from a reduction in workloads by carrying out the debate on the essential tasks: the accountability of courts and tribunals, the preparation of management contracts, the provision of adequate staff and information technology resources. More concretely, a first course was taken during budgetary control. Various "pots-pourris" bills have been launched. Apart from budgetary and legislative measures, together with the College and the Public Prosecutor's Office, the recruitment policy will be adapted. The latter will be more needs-oriented. With regard to staff selection, collaboration with the Selor has already been improved by involving the chief clerks and chief secretaries in the organisation of the Selor selections. Finally, a systematic prior validation is planned of the transfer statements transmitted to the Central Fixed Expenditure Service of the FPS Finance, not only for control purposes, but also for strategic purposes to better predict the budgetary impact of staff costs. At the same time, the computerization of personnel management will be continued. Errors made under the statutory provisions will be rectified and any undue payments will be claimed
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u47	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u48	Mr President, Minister, the press relays shocking information about guards in Forest Prison who are called "SS". The name is heavy in the sense. An investigation has been opened against them. As a result, we will know whether or not torture-like behaviour has actually been perpetrated, as several detainees have complained. There is evidence of the "cachot paris", a game through which detainees would be provoked until overflowing. It is relayed as follows: "This game consists of provoking inmates, for example by cutting off electricity. Without television or light in the cells, incidents between prisoners soon broke out. For the supervisors in the combination, the rule then involves betting on the number of inmates they will put in the hole before the evening." All this is frightening. These incriminations are serious. We all know how heavy and difficult the job is and how difficult the working conditions are. Nevertheless, we cannot tolerate acts of torture and inhuman and degrading treatment in our prisons where inhuman living conditions already prevail. Minister, how is it possible for such acts to occur in an institution to remove those who are considered to be hazards and to reintegrate them? Do you think that the training of prison guards is sufficient to detect among them those who might adopt deviant behaviour, "enclosed" in this environment? Are regular assessments, including psychological assessments, organized? How are inmates assured that they can open up confidentially to the management of the institution or to the members of the services available to them? What means do you envisage to counter the law of silence in prison?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u49	Mr President, Mrs Özen, as the Public Prosecutor's Office has already done, I confirm that several investigations have been opened against a few members of the monitoring staff of the Forest prison and that an investigation has been opened into certain specific facts. At this stage, however, the presumption of innocence seems to me to be the main principle to be put forward, especially since at present no one has been charged. However, if the facts were to be proved, it goes without saying that Justice will have to do its job. As Minister of Justice, I will condemn these behaviours with the utmost firmness. I am convinced, moreover, that the vast majority of prison staff are doing their work with the greatest probity and professionalism, with respect for all and for the law. Unfortunately, the drifts of a very small minority can never be totally excluded. I recall that, like everyone else in the public service, officials are subject to an annual assessment and that every public servant is required to report to the public prosecutor any punishable fact that he or she would find in the performance of his or her duties. It seems to me that, in this particular case, the complaints did indeed lead to the prosecution, which took on its responsibilities. Like any civil servant, prison officers are subject to an annual cycle evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u50	Minister, thank you very much for your answer. We will wait for the outcome of the investigation and pay attention to the steps you will take afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u51	Minister, the gambling commission recently announced its intention to prosecute and fine online players visiting illegal websites. However, the Commission's mission is – it has recently reminded him through its president – to pursue those who organise the games before prosecuting those who play them. Players are too often under the influence of an addiction that is sometimes difficult to fight. The Commission's first task is to focus on the scourge of organising these illegal online games. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to know for what purpose does the gambling committee first pursue players identified as active on illegal gambling sites? Is this not an admission of weakness with regard to operators of illegal gambling sites? On what basis does the Commission intend to assess the amount of the fine to be imposed on players? Is there a dynamic of treatment in relation to these people weakened by addiction to gambling?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u52	Mr Goffin, the Act of 7 May 1999 on games of chance, as amended on 10 January 2010, contains several educational provisions. For example, it attaches great importance to the training of staff in gambling establishments. It is in this same educational spirit that the Commission has initiated proceedings against players visiting illegal websites. The phenomenon of gambling affects a large population that accepts strict and sincere rules of play. The public policy of gambling has the ambition to get out of the educational effects for the population, and in particular for games of chance. In the past, many players on illegal sites have been scavenged because they had deposited money on overseas sites that they lost without the opportunity to complain to an independent authority. Belgian public policy seeks to guarantee players as soon as they deposit the sincerity of the game and correct information. There is no difficulty in prosecuting with results that take into account the priorities of criminal policy. The gambling commission has yet to deliberate. Each case will be examined in particular in the light of the information available in the file. A right of appeal is possible before the court of first instance of the person's domicile if a fine is imposed. The player has the opportunity to find information from the moment he accesses the site on the player's help. The Commission is working to ensure that all operators place access to the game and access to information at the same level. Players can be banned voluntarily and third parties close to players who want to help them can apply for a ban on access to casino games and virtual and physical gaming rooms. A poster campaign took place. A film and educational kit were widely distributed. Brochures on the danger of the game are also distributed in large quantities. Prevention and assistance against addiction belong to the Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u53	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic151x.u54	Question No 3936 by Mr Maingain is postponed. Question No 3987 by Mr Laaouej is deleted.
