ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 July 2015, I propose that you register on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the proposal (Mr Siegfried Bracke) to amend Rule 9 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Representatives, No 1249/1 to 3. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 July 2015, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the proposal (Mr Siegfried Bracke) to amend Rule 9 of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, Nos. 1249/1 to 3. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u3	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u4	Mr President, I would like to make a point about the organisation of our work. We heard this morning, like everyone else, that the government had agreed on the budget adjustment, the 2016 budget and the tax shift. There will probably be a topical debate just now. We will talk about this at the Conference of Presidents. Since a press conference was held by the government at 11.30 a.m., it would be good if parliamentarians could receive all the useful and necessary information. I am thinking of the numerical tables so that we can conduct the debate in full knowledge of the facts at the beginning of the afternoon. This is a request to the government so that we can have this multi-year table, so that we are all equipped to speak in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u5	Mr Nollet, I intended to discuss this at the Conference of Presidents, particularly with regard to the availability of documents. A press conference will be held. Everyone can attend. It always happens that way. We will see this in the Conference of Presidents. There are four reporters. Mr Delizée has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a convergence of all the political groups that have spoken in committee, namely that the sustainability of our pension system is a societal challenge. It is an important subject for all our citizens, current and future pensioners, and a matter on which Parliament, government and social partners must work to ensure the financing and sustainability of the system. Minister, we can all find ourselves on this point. No one said anything should be done, on the contrary. Secondly, the ways to achieve a comprehensive, sustainable and balanced solution diverge greatly between each other. Let us not hide it, we have had tense debates in which, in addition to procedural issues, there have been strong differences. This is the whole difficulty of this report, divided into four parts. There are four rapporteurs, in perfect parity: North-South, majority-opposition, men-women. We must not say too much because of the density and importance of this debate, but we must not be too long at the risk of overtaking the debate that will follow. So I have some sort of "accordion" relationship that can be stretched or restricted. The trend is that it should be restricted instead. I would like to thank the officials, from the Social Affairs Committee, but also all the others, who have been called back to draft a report. We devoted 36 hours of debate on this dossier on 22, 23, 24, 29 and 30 June. In terms of procedure, all this started under somewhat difficult conditions since, on 19 June last, the Social Affairs Committee was convened on Monday 22 June in the morning to discuss, it seems, in the end, this bill with this mention "the sitting can be extended". This led to a series of interventions by several opposition colleagues – the beginnings were a bit chaotic and tense – which were offended by the fact that very little time was available for members to know the content of this project, even though the intention had been announced as soon as the government agreement was reached. As I recall, the document had more than 280 pages. Several colleagues asked why the urgency of such a project, why the Council of State was requested to deliver an urgent opinion within five working days on such an important matter. To these various remarks and objections of the opposition, the minister justified the urgency with the following elements. First, the increase in the legal age of the pension takes effect in 2025. Second, the rules for early retirement take effect in 2018. Thirdly, a pension engine must be developed by the administration and it must be able to respond to workers' requests for information. Fourthly, several provisions will have retroactive effect. In any event, this is what the minister responded to the emergency request. Ms. Temmerman believes that the minister's arguments do not demonstrate the urgency. There is still time to achieve the first three goals, while the fourth can also be achieved through a separate bill. Mr Gilkinet felt that the draft could not be considered in fourth speed. Mr. De Vriendt regrets the method used which he describes as DIY of the worst species. It deplores the fact that the government does not take into account the citizens who will be affected by the planned measures that ignore the observations of the Council of State and that it twists the arm of parliament. He pointed out that there was concern and uncertainty among the labour force as it feared that it might not be able to work until the age of 67. Mr. De Roover claims that the reason for the opposition members being offended in the face of this forcing attempt is the presence of journalists and television cameras. Finally, Mr Calvo, having participated in the Conference of Presidents, testified that the opposition had actively sought a solution to ensure that parliamentary work worthy of that name was still provided. This led to an agreement: the review of 22 June is limited to the introductory statement. The Minister of Pensions then responded to the arguments of the Council of State. These are important in substance. The Minister stated that at no time did the Council of State question the constitutionality of the project. When referring to article 23 of the Constitution, which guarantees the right to social security, it is to indicate that it is up to the author of the preliminary draft to determine to what extent the provisions do not entail a significant reduction in relation to our social protection and, if so, to explain how they are reasonably justified in the light of the general interest. He concluded that the State Council's request was for the bill to be better motivated by the need to ensure the sustainability of the pension system and stated that that was what had been done in the explanatory memorandum. According to the Minister, the reform that is being implemented does not in any way reduce the level of protection offered but maintains that the extension of the career, together with the fact that the length of the reference career is not changed, will increase the average level of pensions. With regard to the State Council's comment on age criteria, he said that the preliminary draft law had been slightly adapted and that those criteria had been used in previous reforms. Finally, with regard to the complexity of the legislation for the citizen, he said that that remark had been taken seriously. That is why the bill covers the three pension schemes and indicates that the citizen will be better placed in all these reforms because he or she will be able, through the pension engine, to determine the first date on which he or she will be able to take up his or her pension and the amount of the pension. Mr Gilkinet felt that the real challenge was to think about another division of labour and another method of financing social security. It does not share the Minister's view on consultation with the social partners. Ms Fonck also questioned that the consultation with the social partners and the federated entities had been well carried out. This is all the more clear since the government did not even wait for the opinion of Committee A before starting the second reading in the Council of Ministers. She asked for the opinions of the Management Committee of the National Pension Office, the Committee A, the Committee of INASTI, the Commission Entreprises publiques and the Military Committee and regretted that, although mandatory, those opinions had not been attached to the draft. The Minister indicated that he would communicate the various opinions of the consultation and negotiation bodies, which had been done. Mr Clarinval then presented a series of amendments and proposed to ask the Council of State for an opinion on them. Ms Fonck stressed that the amendments were in fact a government draft and noted that the member sought the opinion of the Council of State. The proceedings must therefore be suspended until the opinion of the Council of State is transmitted to the House. Various statements were made on these amendments, which I shall sum up as follows: following an informal meeting with other members of the majority and with the chairman of the committee, Mr Clarinval decided to withdraw his request for an opinion from the Council of State. Mrs Fonck insisted that the opinion of the Council of State should be sought and proposed holding hearings. Other members have also requested this and a vote has taken place on this matter. The request for a hearing, at this stage of the debate, was rejected, with a majority against the opposition by eleven votes to six. Ms. Onkelinx insisted on whether the majority intended to pass the bill effectively on 23 July and recalled her request for a quality debate. She pointed out that until concepts were defined, particularly those of penitibility, the minister's argument that workers had the right to know the date on which they would be able to take their pension quickly did not hold. She also called for hearings to be held. These two points were put to the vote and were rejected by a majority (11 votes) against (six votes). The introductory presentations are then given. The Minister of Pensions states that, in accordance with the government agreement, the purpose of the bill is to raise the statutory retirement age and to reform the early retirement and survivor's pensions. Minister, you will not be mad at me if I refer to the written report, which summarizes your presentation. It will save us time. I think colleagues will appreciate it. The same applies to Mrs Fonck's motion for a resolution. I was going to ask her if she agreed that I should refer to the written report. We're going to consider it to be. In any case, the link between pension reform and employment policy is explicitly found in the report. I come to the general discussion for which I will confine myself to the first interventions. I will start with our colleague, Mr. From Roover. He referred to a statement made in 2004 by Messrs. Johan Vande Lanotte and Frank Vandenbroucke, according to which this year would be a pivotal moment. According to Mr. De Roover, meanwhile, this pivotal moment has begun to rust, because nothing has moved. He believes that it is important today to move forward on this issue. To demonstrate this necessity, he took the example of his father, who worked from eighteen to sixty-five years. You will find in the written report details of the arguments relating to the career of Mr. From Roover. According to the speaker, the bill aims to raise a set of parameters for two years in 2025 and 2030, while, according to statistics, life expectancy will have increased by two and a half years. He considered that the draft law provided for "pronounced transitional measures". For Mr. From Roover, it is clear that the current system is not financially sustainable with unchanged policy. And to give some figures that are in the report. According to the speaker, with an unchanged policy, ageing entails annual structural costs of more than 4% of GDP, i.e. EUR 16 billion, only for expenditure on pensions alone, without taking into account the wider costs. He believes that the authorities must be attentive to a series of changes in society. When the pension age was set at 65 in 1925, a man's life expectancy was only 54 years. According to him, at the time, the pension was still an insurance for those who had the bad luck of living a long time. For Mr. From Roover, it is crucial that the pension confers sufficient purchasing power on pensioners and finds that fortunately there is a second and third pillar of pension. According to him, the current government makes a clear choice to which it joins. He chooses to lay a solid foundation so that he can guarantee a pension for future generations. According to our N-VA colleague, extending the career is not a punishment, but an opportunity to create pension rights, which is beneficial to the quality and replacement ratio of the pension. For him, the objective of the measures is to raise the exit age from the labour market to 63 years. According to Mr. From Roover, young retirees have higher mortality as they seek to give meaning to their lives. The possibility of extending an activity is a great opportunity. Still according to Mr. From Roover, we must forget the biblical conception of work as a penalty. Thus the speaker invokes the Bible: "It is with the sweat of your face that you will eat bread" (cf. Genesis 3.19). In short, to sum up his remarks, work is health. The speaker concluded, on behalf of his group, by pointing out that it was absurd to claim that longer careers would be at the expense of youth employment and said that he was proud to be able to contribute to that project. Secondly, the statement made by our colleague, Frédéric Daerden, which I shall try to summarize because I have no doubt that, in the course of his speech, he will take up a number of arguments which he has put forward in committee. In any event, he indicated that this bill was undemocratic and cited some elements of the majority's electoral programmes for the 2014 elections. At the MR level, not raising the pension age was in bold in its electoral programme; it was even at the top of the Pensions chapter. I mentioned it, too. Il n'y a aucune ambiguity dans le programme de la N-VA: "The retirement age remains at 65 years." Idem du côté du CD&V: "We keep the statutory retirement age of 65 years." L'Open Vld: "The statutory retirement age remains at 65 years." The speaker also quoted Charles Michel, who himself said on the eve of the elections: "For the MR, there is no question of reaching the legal age of retirement at 65." For his part, Mr. De Wever described any reduction in the legal age of the pension as "absurd". I think this indicates in the speaker's head, Mr Daerden, that this project is undemocratic in the sense that it has not been announced to the voters and, on the contrary, there has been a complete reversal of the point of view. He also gives other examples. In particular, he quotes the Minister of Pensions – and so it will appear, Minister, in the report of the plenary session for posterity – who told the RTBF, on October 5, 2014, a few days before the government came into existence, that "the MR proposes not to reach the legal age of pension". Another element is funding. Mr Daerden felt that the pension reform sought should not mean a reduction in rights. He stressed that another just and respectful reform of everyone's rights was possible. It refers to complementary alternative financing, which is a real recommendation of the Pension Reform Commission. Daerden also blames the project for being sausageed, without an overall view. It is not a comprehensive project of the system, which should also combine employment policy with the pension financing system. It considers that the measures are, on the contrary, presented to the dropper, which does not allow a clear and transparent reading of the whole. He believes that the proposed measures are unfair despite the minister's reassuring statement of a limited number of persons involved. All this does not hold the road to reality. The measures will affect most of our citizens. The argument that a longer career will give a better pension also does not hold up because other measures will reduce the pension amount per year of work. Persons at the end of their career with an illness or disability or persons in unemployment also have to wait for 67 years to take up their pension. On the workers' side, according to the figures provided by the minister himself, 25% of the employees are concerned. On the self-employed side, this percentage reaches 40 per cent, but the measure will be especially unfair for women: 54 per cent of employed women and 83 per cent of self-employed women are affected. Mr. Daerden indicated that this bill is unfair because there are disparities in each person's ability to work longer on a career basis, depending on the state of health also at the end of a career. Mr Daerden recalled that he had tabled a bill with other colleagues in the PS creating a tax credit equivalent to EUR 120 per month for workers who were eligible to constitute a pension bonus, i.e. workers who continued their careers while they could have taken their early pension. I believe that the theme of the election campaign was to raise the effective retirement age. This was reflected not only in the MR programme but also in other programmes. Finally, this is not the path chosen by the government. Several speakers also raised the question of the criteria of penitibility, including Mr Daerden but also Mrs Onkelinx and Mrs Temmerman, who wanted to know more about the Minister of Employment's comments on the concept of sustainable career – werkbaar werk. They are asking for more explanation in this regard. Mr Daerden always invokes social consultation, which is not one. Several speakers also made statements in that regard. Mr Daerden believes that the pension system is not financially unsustainable. The planned measures are by no means indispensable and are not fatal. He invokes an economic justification. It also states that the pension system is not isolated. It is an integral part of social security. The overall management of social security was introduced in 1984, therefore, for a long time. Therefore, we must of course have a general reflection on this overall management, not isolated, i.e. not just on the question of pension financing. He also provided figures from the Planning Office which indicate that the cost of pensions will increase by 3.5 per cent of GDP until 2060. Expenditure growth per year therefore only reached 0.076 per cent between 2015 and 2060. This is the annual growth over this period. I assume that our colleague will come back to his remarks on life expectancy. Although it increased, the retirement age had never been changed. Mr Daerden concluded that raising the pension age was not a fatality, but a political choice. He also referred to the situation of women, from injustices to discrimination against women, citing figures which he could, if necessary, repeat in his intervention earlier. Mr Daerden, I do not want to comment on early retirement and survivor's pensions; you will come back. You also mentioned the National Board of Pensions. You challenged its tripartite composition and, along with other colleagues, made a lengthy intervention on the risks of unconstitutionality of the project. The debate at the standstill will also be taken up by Mr Massin during the discussion. In Mr Daerden's view, ensuring the sustainability of the pension system can be achieved without so drastically reducing the rights of current and future pensioners. Where there are less infringing alternatives to the rights of the persons concerned, the measures proposed by the Government must be considered unconstitutional as an infringement of article 23 of the Constitution. Finally, you felt, Mr. Daerden, that it was up to the government to present a comprehensive and understandable reform to the government in the interests of transparency and readability. You also referred to the retroactive nature of certain measures, in particular those relating to transitional allowances. This is a major flaw in the government's project, as has been pointed out by several colleagues. Your conclusion, Mr. Daerden, is that the draft is anti-democratic, unjust, absurd, ineffective, unconstitutional and discriminatory. You call on the government to review its copy to put in place a comprehensive, readable, coherent, social reform based on a broad democratic debate. Mr. David Clarinval believes that it is more than time to take action to safeguard the pension system. This is currently being strained by the combination of three factors: the participation rate of 60/64 year olds, the steady increase in life expectancy, the average retirement age, resulting in a budgetary cost which increased from EUR 25 billion in 2006 to EUR 41 billion in 2014. Between longer careers, higher worker or future generations or lower pension funds, the government has chosen effective career extension. According to Mr Clarinval, it is irresponsible to suggest that the pension system we know is sustainable in its present form. The reform undertaken by the government echoes the same reforms carried out in recent years and which will be carried out in the coming years in most European states. He pointed out that the legal age of the pension was raised to 67 years in accordance with the scenario mentioned in the first report of the Pension Reform Commission, but that, contrary to this scenario, the reference career, which was currently 45 years old, was not extended. In his view, the reform would increase the average amount of pensions. Mr. Clarinval noted that it was planned to gradually increase the age at which the surviving spouse was entitled to a survivor's pension, but recalled that the person entitled who did not meet the age requirement at the time of his spouse's death could benefit from the transitional allowance scheme. He concluded by saying that the increase in life expectancy coupled with the improvement of health situations at an older age makes it possible to envisage longer careers but concedes that not everyone is equal to these health improvements and indicates that it is obvious that particular situations must be able to be taken into account. For him, if one touches on the legal age of the pension, it is logical that the conditions for access to the early pension follow a similar direction and insists that raising the age of the pension is not an end in itself but that it is intended to raise the actual average age of retirement. Ms. Sonja Becq then recalled the need for pension reform in view of the figures on the ageing of the population. According to the speaker, the report of the Ageing Commission contained interesting figures. For her, even if it's not easy, it's time to make the right decisions. The main challenge is to allow more people to pursue their careers longer in jobs appropriate to their age. Care must therefore be taken to make the labour market more attractive, to encourage employers to offer suitable jobs and to improve the balance between personal and working life. Ms Becq stressed that the 45-year-old career was more important than age. She notes that over time, one has managed to create the illusion among the public that it is enough to reach the age of 65, if not less, to be able to receive a full pension, which has, in fact, never been the case. For her, in the future, career will always be more important than retirement age, but the reference to age 67 is important for all those who have not fulfilled the condition of a full career but who must nevertheless be able to take up their pension at a given time. She welcomed the fact that transitional measures were provided for those who were now close to the age at which more favourable measures had previously been available and believed that that was a good balance between the rights of those who were close to the age at which certain benefits had previously been available and solidarity with future generations. In her view, raising the legal age of the pension to 67 must logically lead to an adjustment of the reference ages for unemployment and disability compensation. The intervener questions the Minister of Employment or the government in this regard. Mrs Becq also hopes that the installation of the National Pensions Committee will be accompanied by a discussion on difficult jobs - which is actually planned - or even part-time pension, as the Minister has already announced. Mr. Lachaert pointed out that raising the statutory retirement age to 67 was one of the first measures announced by the government, which demonstrated the importance of this measure in the eyes of the majority. Like Mr Clarinval, he said that the primary objective was to raise the effective retirement age, which was abnormally low in Belgium. He said that those who would have a full career behind them would be able to leave the pension earlier. He also pointed out that the reform was part of a wide-ranging movement to be observed in the other European states, Ireland and the United Kingdom, raising even the statutory pension age to 68 years. It is not a question of taking a social step backwards, but of taking into account the consequences of increasing life expectancy and ensuring that pensions for the future remain at a sufficient level while being sustainable for future generations. Mr Lachaert also believes that the point-based pension system still to be developed constitutes "a revolutionary perspective", I quote. Mrs Temmerman, I will try to sum up your speeches because I imagine you will repeat arguments with your group, otherwise I will exceed a reasonable speaking time for the first quarter of this report. I think you have challenged a lot of things in this bill. Nothing that favours active labour market management is proposed or presented for the benefit of older workers or for the promotion of quality employment for older workers. The project does not solve the problem we face. You consider the proposed reform unfair. You are also surprised that, finally, after all the statements made by the various parties of the majority, it is finally and suddenly becoming a flagship measure of the government as if it were the miracle solution that no one was announcing and that everyone was contesting before the elections. You have asked a number of questions about this, including the question of funding. You mentioned the tax shift. Maybe we'll find out a little more this afternoon. In any case, you have also raised the issue of alternative financing, which has so far remained a dead letter. We'll see what happens in the next few hours. You have also called for a sustainable reform of pensions, for a more general reflection, for a more patient social dialogue with all actors in civil society. You said that there was no reform strategy, and I quote: "No conditions are met. No alternative financing mechanism has been established. We simply change the existing parameters without a real reform strategy. The social partners will have only an advisory voice within the National Pension Committee. There is absolutely no question of a coherent and balanced whole." For you, this project is completely improvised and leads to aberrations, which you have developed. I am not going to repeat everything, I am referring to the written report. You also dispute the fact that the current system would become impeccable. You say: "We must avoid sowing panic on the current system of legal pensions, which the government does in the end". You said that the views of the social partners were overwhelming, with one exception. You have referred to the discriminatory issue of women's careers, which has a very negative impact on them. I will also refer to the written report for Mr Gilkinet's statement. In any case, he considers it incomprehensible that the pension bonus should be abolished. He and his group felt that the rate and conditions of employment for older workers should be improved. He refutes the linear therapy proposed by the government and pleads for alternative funding. It also notes that the government is announcing that heavy trades and partial pension access mechanisms will be settled at a later date. According to him, it's not consistent. In addition, he believes that the tax shift is a mirage. Mr Gilkinet suspected that the government wanted to tarnish the first pillar of pension, which was the most effective, and considered that the government wanted to promote the second and third pillars, which were part of the private sector. It also states that this project is catastrophic for women. He also recalled his group's proposal on youth employment, which raised the issue of youth unemployment, which amounted to 23%, and recalled the data from the Tandem plan he wanted to promote. Mr Gilkinet concluded by lamenting that the proposed reform was one-dimensional in that it extended careers without taking into account the specificities of the different professions or considering other solutions to, for example, distribute available work among generations. In addition, no alternative financing is foreseen. I will also refer to the written report for Ms Fonck's intervention, because it is roughly the same as it is. It rejects the government's argument of European benchmarking, because it compares realities that are not comparable, and shows the difference in terms of healthy life expectancy between Belgium and Sweden. It opposes the argument that this project will increase the purchasing power of pensioners, on the grounds that the replacement rate is very low in Belgium: 40% compared to the European average. According to her, this project will lead to a sharp increase in parallel exits: from 40 to 60 % towards unemployment, time credit and career interruption and from 10 to 15 % towards disability. She concluded by saying that, in order for pension reform to achieve its objectives successfully, it was necessary for it to generate a consensus within society and that citizens' membership would prevent parallel exits from the labour market. I come back to Mr. Hedebouw, who is not as enthusiastic as the minister about the bill that deals with a fundamental societal issue, the way we treat our elders. I inevitably had to summarize, Mr. Hedebouw. I therefore refer to the report for the figures you have given, the comparisons with Sweden and other things, the end of a healthy career. According to Mr. Hedebouw, the key question is, what should be the duration of the professional activity to ensure that those who do not work will be fed and will be able to enjoy moments of relaxation and live in dignity? The fact that productivity has been multiplied by 5 since 1950, combined with the increase in wealth, justifies a debate on the retirement age. According to him, thanks to advances in science, it is no longer necessary to work as long as it was in the past. However, this does not mean that it is no longer desirable to work, on the contrary. Marxist doctrine even considers work as the only source of wealth. He also indicated that the Belgian Federation of Enterprises wanted to increase wage pressure. The higher the supply of work, the lower the value of work. The fewer job seekers, the higher the salary. All this is a question of the relationship between supply and demand. Increasing the length of the career on the one hand, and hunting for the unemployed on the other, on the other hand, lead to a reduction in wages. You also feel, Mr Hedebouw, that paying pensions is not a problem and you refer in particular to the White Paper on pensions of the European Commission. You think the government's view is dogmatic. Pensioners won't get another penny. You then criticize the impact assessments presented in the bill, which state that the higher the level of activity of older people, the lower the unemployment of young people, and you take the example of Sweden and Denmark. I refer to the written report. With regard to the measures announced by the parties that make up the majority, you indicated that the only electoral programme in which the age of retirement was raised to 67 was that of the VOKA. In conclusion, you say that you are not in favour of the government's project. I have to summarize, Mr. Hedebouw, you're not mad at me. In any case, you believe that Belgium has sufficient means to grant workers a decent pension without having to prolong their careers. The last speech I'm going to talk about is Mr. Massin's. I will apologise to him too, and I will have to sum up his speech a lot. He stressed contempt for social consultation, contempt for the Council of State. Mr. Massin has done a long legal analysis. I refer to the written report because a legal reasoning cannot be summarized. He points to the question of Article 23 of the Constitution, the principle of standstill, to show, Mr.Minister, that the government's argument really presents a flaw, a huge weakness in this matter. Mr. Massin demonstrated it legally. He also referred to the sustainability of the project's public finances to conclude that there are other less rights-infringing options than those envisaged by the government to achieve the stated goal. He's demonstrating it. Mr. Massin concludes by saying that society can cope with the rising cost of pensions by showing a little solidarity and speaks of 1.01% without demanding sacrifices from seniors. He blames this reform for not being comprehensive and for everything being divided. He pointed out that the minister did not mention the point pension system in his response. He therefore wondered about the evolution of the concept and would like to know more about it. He would like satisfactory answers. He called for a fair reform that met all the concerns of future pensioners and avoided being overturned by the Constitutional Court, which he said would not be the case with the reform proposed by the government. This is the first part of the report, which shows that the exchanges were very dense in terms of quality arguments as well as wide differences of opinion between the majority and the opposition. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the report on this first part.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, the second rapporteur is Mrs Kitir. It shall refer to the written report. The third rapporteur is Mrs Becq.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, according to the agreements we have made with the rapporteurs, I shall now turn to the hearings we have held. We have heard, among other things, Mrs Vanderhoven from the VBO who referred to pension costs, life expectancy, the relationship between workers and pensioners and so on. We have also listened to Mrs Slegers of the ACLVB who commented and explained the negative opinion formulated by the ACLVB. The lack of a comprehensive approach, discussion of the labour market, attention to employment policy were all raised by the Commission. Mr Jean-François Tamellini of the FGTB has relied on life expectancy figures. The cost argument was also related by him, as was the privileged position of civil servants. The FGTB's proposal was an integral welfare adjustment and 75% of the last wage as a pension. Mrs Deiteren of UNIZO gave a positive assessment of the raising of age and career, and also drew attention to the tension between the periods treated and working for over 60 people. It has paid attention to the fact that many self-employed people continue to work even after the age of 60. Luc Hamelinck has put the emphasis on the heavy impact of the design on everyone on behalf of the ACV Public Services. He raised, among other things, the expectations of the 50-plussers as well as the concerns of women. If people continue to work longer, this could lead to a loss in the field of volunteering and informal care. Mrs Magdeleine Willame-Boonen of Le Conseil de l'Egalité des Chances entre Hommes et Femmes has, of course, also paid attention to the situation of women in this pension reform. In particular, it calls for account to be taken of the situation of women when the new point system is put in place. Finally, Mr Jadot stressed once again the importance of a parliamentary debate, because of the importance of this matter and taking into account the baby boom, life expectancy, the fact that there are sufficient older workers at work and the international context. It attaches importance to flexibility. Mr De Roover, Mr Daerden, Mr Clarinval, Mr Lachaert, Mr Bonte, Mr De Vriendt, Mr Fonck, Mr Van Hees, Mr Gilkenet, Mr Van Quickenborne and myself have asked questions and made speeches. The details of this can be found in the report from pages 112 to 140. So much for the report on the hearings we have held. They were fascinating and gave rise to a lot of discussion. Maybe they'll be discussed later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be very short to present the fourth part of the report, which consists of the discussion of the articles, article by article. In Article 1, some members of the opposition tabled an amendment to delete the entire article. The author of the amendment defended it by asking that the content of the bill be again submitted for notice to the Council of State. In Article 2, the opposition represented mainly by Ms Temmerman and Mr. De Vriendt pointed out that, despite what the minister claims, the Pension Reform Commission did not recommend the measures provided for in section 2 and the bill in general. The minister defended himself by saying that raising the legal pension age was clearly the major scenario advocated by the Commission 2020-2040. In addition, the Minister pointed out that while the government did not take up the recommendation literally, the report of the Pension Reform Commission was the main source of inspiration in the development of the project. In Article 4, Messrs. Bonte and De Vriendt as well as Ms Temmerman were concerned about the specific measure stipulating that Article 2 does not apply to persons who were in pre-retirement status on 1 January 2015. The Minister replied by stressing that this transitional measure, which was also negotiated with the Community and regional governments, was unanimously approved by the social partners. In Article 5, Mr. De Vriendt asked what the reasons for the transitional measures were for persons over 55 years of age and whether they had been developed arbitrarily. Ms Fonck referred to the discussions in the A Committee noting that the ruling mechanism planned for the French Community in 2012 must indeed be maintained as it stands. In Article 7, Mr Daerden regretted that certain provisions were repealed even before they entered into force. In article 8, several members of the opposition considered that the article under consideration gave the King too broad authority and asked whether the parliament would have a right to review the preliminary draft royal decree. Article 9 provides for a five-year increase in the legal age of the survivor's pension in 2030. Several members of the opposition expressed concern. Ms. Fonck pointed out that the government had not made any progress on the individualization of pension rights. Mr. De Vriendt was concerned about the difficulties of access to the labour market for women, while MM. Gilkinet and Bonte felt that the article affected an already vulnerable group and that it gave the whole project an anti-women image. In his reply, the Minister pointed out that the measure will only have its effects from 2030 onwards and that he cannot speak today about developments after 2030. He also pointed out that the survivor's pension should also be seen as an employment trap and that, in the long run, the individualisation of rights would have to be the subject of an in-depth discussion in the context of social consultation. This is followed by a series of amendments on the budgetary impact of the increases in the age of the survivor's pension, which I thank you for. In Rule 12, Mrs Fonck, MM. Van Hees, Hedebouw, Daerden and I for the majority have tabled amendments. Several members of the opposition stressed that raising the pension age would be particularly unfavourable for women. In their view, women should work much longer to achieve a full career. On the opposition side, it was pointed out that the major change for women dates from 1997 when the legal age of the pension was raised from 60 to 65 years. In Article 15, Mr Massin went back to the issue of the income guarantee allowance for the elderly. It was very concerned that the poverty of part of the population, in particular those who had to bear medical and medication costs, was aggravated. The Minister replied that this was a protection issue for CPAS. In Rule 18, Mrs Fonck, MM. Daerden et al. tabled amendments. In particular, they asked the Minister for the reasons for limiting the derogation to one year for 59 years and over. The Minister indicated that this was a political choice. Mr Bonte then asked the minister if there would be any interference between the transitional measures of the previous reform and the ongoing reform. The Minister stated that the guarantees of the previous reform were maintained. In Rule 19, amendments were tabled. Several members of the opposition expressed concern about the requirement for advance notice to begin before 9 October 2014 in order to be able to retire early. These members also stated that this date was not the one agreed with the social partners. The minister replied that this was indeed the only measure that the government had decided to change with respect to the results of the social dialogue. According to him, this transitional measure is a kind of copy-and-paste of the previous reform and the idea is not to take the workers whose contract of employment was interrupted in time non-suspecto, the date of 9 October being that of the government agreement. In Rule 24, Messrs. Delizée and Bonte referred to the opinion of the Council of State, stressing that the retroactivity of the provisions of the article can only be justified if the measures are necessary to achieve an objective of general interest or if they are of a purely informative nature. The Minister confirmed that the provisions merely clarified and supplemented the wording of the relevant provisions, which came into force on January 1, 2015. Several members then challenged the government's impact assessment, which foresees a positive impact of the life pension reform. In section 27, Mr. Gilkinet introduced an amendment and Ms. Fonck asked the Minister about the disparities in the coming into force of the provisions. The minister replied that this was a legal choice made by the administrations. In Article 28, amendments were tabled by Mrs Fonck, Mr Daerden and myself. In Article 50, Ms Fonck found that the date of entry into force was the same for the public sector and for the self-employed, but different for the employees. The Minister referred to the previous response regarding the differences in the effective dates. The committee then proceeded to vote on the many articles and, above all, on the many amendments, with a different breakdown of the votes for each of them. Only the three majority amendments were accepted. Before the commission proceeded to vote on the bill as a whole, Mr.Bonte last reiterated his fundamental objections to the bill, in his view a source of social concern and legal uncertainty, and recalled the main criticisms of the Council of State. The bill was finally passed by 11 votes to 6. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u10	Mr. Clarinval, thank you. Mr Daerden has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u11	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are gathered here for your bill, whose debates in committee have been widely reported by our colleagues, but which, I believe, deserve some further development. Colleagues, this bill is a symbolic bill of this government. He's antisocial, brutal, and blond. It is antisocial because it attacks the world of work by putting the entire burden of effort on the shoulders of workers. It is brutal: it settles by law and without a broad social dialogue a sensitive topic, as Professor Hindriks, member of the Pension Reform Commission 2020-2040, rightly said, which has submitted a report which has been much discussed. He said: "You thus bring the elders against the young and the workers against the employers." There are two reasons why this project is inconvenient. On the one hand, it is a prerequisite for measures for a genuine policy on the employment of older people and, on the other hand, it is heavily criticized by the Council of State, which, however, had only five days to give its opinion because we were in a sense of urgency. This text, which comes to the end of the first year in power of this MR-N-VA government, complements the already too long list of measures taken which severely affect the world of work. I am thinking of index jumps, the announced death of pre-pensions, the tightening of time credits, the tightening of insertion allowances. It is clear, Mr Minister, that you are not in charge of all these reforms, but they all go in the same direction and their cumulativeity makes things even harder for the people concerned. The austerity revenues that your government advocates, relaying the will of the European Commission, do not work and our citizens no longer want them. You make them pay, for budgetary and ideological reasons, the consequences of a financial crisis that has caused our debt to explode, much more than the ageing for which they are in no way responsible. The same applies to pensions. Your proposals in this area are defended only by you and the employers' organisations. As has been reported, a moment ago we were able to see, during the hearings, a real ideological cleavage. Why? Promoting a return to private savings by tightening access to the first pillar pension? Increasing wage pressure by increasing the number of people available on the labour market? Divide workers - youth and seniors? Minister, on this issue, you and your government are flouting, both in form and in substance, the very foundations of our democratic functioning. This government has never received the support of voters to raise the legal age of pension, and for cause! Absolutely all the parties of the majority promised, during the election campaign, to keep the legal age of retirement at 65. Today, you do exactly the opposite. You undermine the trust of our fellow citizens by depriving them of any real debate and deceiving them, which is particularly serious. Rethink the 120,000 angry fellow citizens who were going down the streets on November 6, to denounce the index jump and ask for the pension to be maintained at age 65. Rethink the regular demonstrations of the common union front that have taken place, since then, to refuse these attacks on pensions. A reform as essential as that of pensions must be accepted, fair, prepared and discussed calmly by all the social partners and not only by employers. The Pension Reform Commission rightly indicated this. It can only take place through patient social consultation and wide-ranging social debate. But you don't do anything about it! We're far from it. On the contrary, you are trying by every means to avoid a broad democratic debate and thus disregard social consultation. Voting such a fundamental text during the summer when many people are already on holiday, having asked for the urgency, is a clear sign of your intentions. I assume that having chosen this to take place on the day of an important announcement from your government of an agreement on the tax shift is a coincidence. I imagine that you had not programmed it so that it would fall today and so that such an important debate would be overshadowed. I have doubts. Ladies and gentlemen, beyond this reflection, the measures we are talking about today are not only undemocratic but also unfair. They do not take into account the realities and possibilities of everyone. Thus, in your reform, there are no exceptions for people who have worked hard. We are planning amendments in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u12	Mr President, I am interrupting Mr Daerden in support of his remarks on penitibility. Minister, I asked you about this in committee. What you do is truly machiavelic and undermines social consultation in the most beautiful sense of the word. You're working on the pension age rather than careers. It's a criticism, and Mr. Daerden will talk a lot about it. But you work in a uniform way without taking into account the professional truth of each other, especially in difficult jobs. They would deserve an exception on the principles that you develop. You don't even expect a small article at the project level dealing with penitibility. Nothing! So, a person who has a hard-working professional life with a very difficult job is, at the moment, completely ignored in your bill. You tell us that you will discuss this with the social partners and that if they reach an agreement, you will be an exception to the principle. It is in this sense that I say that it is machiavelic because if there is no agreement, the project does not foresee any outcome. So those who plead for the consideration of penitibility, either get almost nothing, and at least there will be a change, or are ambitious and you close all the doors! It is against a high-quality social dialogue in which employers, workers' representatives and government speak with equal arms. Here, we will not speak with equal weapons; there is a weak part, that is, those who call for consideration of the career path. In addition, it is a message that is sent to all people who work hard in difficult jobs by telling them that they are not being taken into account. Mr Daerden stresses that this is a socially unjust project, and that is the pure truth! You have truly deeply undermined confidence in a society that takes into account the weakest or those that offer society a more difficult, heavier, serious contribution that deserves our full attention. You have no attention for these people. I very much regret it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u13	Mrs Onkelinx, we are surprised to hear such comments. Indeed, you cannot ignore that social dialogue will take place in the coming months. If we had taken a decision today, without consulting the social partners, you would have been the first, Mrs Onkelinx, to say that we were flouting social consultation. In the present case, for a very long period of months, we are giving a chance to social dialogue, with a view to reaching a conclusion on the problem of the tenability of work. You are really prejudging an attitude of the social partners that would not be constructive. On the contrary, we rely on social consultation. We trust employers and unions to reach consensus. If the agreement is reached, a law will be adopted. Therefore, there will be a debate in this House on the tenibility of work. What is more democratic than giving the social partners the floor and then validating the law? If we'd done the opposite, you'd have been critical. I am therefore surprised that these two speeches are being given.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u14	Mr. Clarinval, your remarks are outside the truth. To believe in social dialogue really means to allow a debate and a fight with equal weapons. So the government shouldn't have decided! What you're saying doesn't make any sense! We did not necessarily ask for a solution for penitibility, but for the promise that measures will enter into force when an agreement is reached between the social partners on this subject. Indeed, in the event of failure of social consultation, you drop those who have spent their lives in a particularly hard job. For long careers, you have made exceptions. For arduous trades, no exceptions. That is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u15	Mr Clarinval, since the beginning, you have confused social consultation with social coercion. This is the whole problem of your government!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u16	Mr President, in five minutes, to hear that I am out of the truth, that my remarks are meaningless, that I confuse consultation with social coercion, makes me smile! It is clear that for the Socialist Party, in the absence of agreement from the FGTB, social consultation did not take place! We know that! We know their attitude! In this case, it is clear that in the absence of an agreement within the concertation, the ball will return to the hands of Parliament and the government. But we cannot be taken hostage by one or the other social partner who would not like to agree. We therefore give the chance to social dialogue without being taken hostage by any social partner who refuses to conclude an agreement. That's our difference with you, Mrs. Onkelinx!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u17	Mr Clarinval, there is no need to make a caricature of it here. Let us try to have a serene debate here, as in committee. I call on everyone to do so. Our main argument and our main criticism, and indeed the criticism of the Pension Commission, is that if we want to organise a whole pension reform, we must have broad support for it. Above all, we must ensure that people have certainty about the future, that they can retire, that pensions can be paid and that pensions are sufficiently high. Soon I will explain why this bill does not meet any of these three points. By immediately taking a number of decisions here and shifting the whole discussion on heavy professions and so on to later, you create very great uncertainty among those who are still at work today and are having a difficult time to endure. They now think they will have to work for up to 67 years. It's that uncertainty we're suing, Mr. Clarinval. However, this uncertainty could have been avoided by a broad social dialogue, not only within a very limited framework. This has already been made impossible by this government since the government agreement, as mentioned by the Pension Commission. That's what we're suing. And that has nothing to do with the FGTB or the ABVV.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u18	I just wanted to say, Mr Clarinval, that I am a little sad at your approach to this debate. It's a real debate. It should not be caricatured by invoking the FGTB. The social partners are the representatives of all workers, of all employers. And social consultation is to give them the opportunity to discuss with equal arms. It's nothing but that. We have had some fine debates and exchanges in committee at times. It is a shame that you fall into the caricature to avoid a debate. I say and repeat that the government should have provided for a loophole for people who give their lives in difficult trades. You have failed to do so and, for me, this is a serious social fault.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u19	Mr Clarinval, you are now committed to working with the social partners on the follow-up. All right. Let's see what it's gonna give. But my concern and our main complaint is that I cut this file into small pieces, having first decided to apply a pure stick policy and to leave aside everything that could lead to the accession of a large part of the population, whether by adapting career ends, by lightening them to get people to want to work longer, or by taking into account heavy trades so that people do not feel assaulted. I am among those who believe that we can make a success of this pension dossier provided we have a broad consensus at the level of the population. (Ms Karin Jiroflée, sp.a., distributes lemons to his socialist colleagues in the Chamber) I don't think we're talking so much about pensions anymore, Mr President. We're talking lemons. Maybe we need vitamins to work longer. I don't know. I'm still going to try to keep up my point. We could have made this dossier a real success by having a broad membership of the population. You missed this indispensable condition of success of the pension reform by having cut and postponed to later, and above all without determining a date, everything concerning the adjustment of career ends – I had tabled a text on this subject. You could have eased them by allowing heavy trades to be taken into account now. That's what you're being blamed for. You are going to consult, of course, but it is immediately that it would have been necessary to do so in order to make a decision about the different pallets that are inseparable from each other in terms of pensions. It is by linking employment policy with pension policy that we can achieve this and make it a success rather than a failure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u20	Mr President, before proceeding further, I shall return to Mr Clarinval's remarks. Beyond the bottom line, what we are denouncing is the chronology problem. It was necessary to address the issue of difficult jobs before reaching the point of reflection and discussion on the legal age of retirement. We have denounced him and we will denounce him again. I would like to thank Mrs Laurette Onkelinx for the additions she has provided and for her insistence on this question of penitibility, which is of particular interest to us. As always with this government, it will be the most fragile that will be penalized, those who will not be able to continue to work decently, because they are worn out by the exercise of a physically trying profession. They will be forced to continue or to wait for their right to unemployment in so far as they have been dismissed because of their inability to continue their work, then receiving an invalidity allowance. That is how we will see the shift from one branch of social security to another. As we know, while today's average healthy life expectancy is 65 years depending on socio-economic background and educational attainment, the difference is 18 years for men and 25 years for women. In other words, we are not all equal before the disease. To force everyone to work longer without taking into account this reality is profoundly unfair. Moreover, the Council of State rightly reminds us that dealing with two different situations in the same way may violate our principle of equality. Colleagues, as Mr. De Wever, who is not in the room at the moment, before the elections: "Reculating the pension age is absurd." That deserved to be stressed. Indeed, rather than raising the pension age, which will result in a carry-over of burdens to other branches of social security – I have just explained this – it is necessary to allow workers to continue working in good conditions until the age of 65 and to encourage them to continue working until at least 65 years of age; leave them the choice, minister. There is no need to punish a worker at the end of the roll, who can no longer work or who is not valued in the labour market. The necessary reform does not guarantee the employment of people over the age of 50. It is therefore ineffective, because some of those who are going to be forced to stay at work are worn out workers, sometimes low-skilled. On the ground, employers themselves take too few initiatives to retain older workers in their businesses and do not engage them when they are available on the labour market. That is what priority should have been given to action. A recent study has shown that only 12.5% of older workers are invited to a first job interview. Colleagues, the postponement of retirement age to 67 is also an aberration when we see the unemployment rate among young people. Delaying access to stable employment for these young people will do nothing to finance future pensions. However, young people who have entered the labour market since 2008 have been the first victims of the economic and financial crisis. They should be at the heart of our policies. The only thing the MR-N-VA government does about young people is punish them. It punishes them by abolishing integration allowances for those under the age of 21 who have not been able to obtain a diploma, and by abolishing allowances from the age of 25. Colleagues, the MR-N-VA government also wants to tighten access to early retirement pensions. Thus, in 2019, to qualify for an early pension, it would take 63 years and 42 years of career. This is an unfair measure that will hit the weakest and especially women, who tend to have shorter careers and who, for the most part, will be forced to work or remain unemployed-disabled until the age of 67 when they are already highly discriminated against. When looking at average careers, it can be seen that they last 42.6 years for men and 31.6 years for women. If we look at workers who have a career of over 40 years, 85% of men reach this length, while only 40% of women achieve it. It can be seen that the situation is unbalanced and that this measure is particularly unfair to women. This will increase discrimination. This is only discrimination among many others. We must regret them, denounce them, fight them and support the current campaign: they are not lemons! Colleagues, under this theme of early pensions, the government in all its hypocrisy nevertheless retains an exception for long careers while hardening the required career condition. To retire early at age 60 as part of long careers, it will take 44 years of career, or to have worked for 16 years without interruption! Today, who meets this condition? In reality, in practice, the government eliminates this exception for a long career. You may be able to tell us just how many people meet this condition. I am eagerly waiting for your answer! Minister, rather than raising the pension age, it would be better to encourage older workers, if they wish, to continue working in good conditions. But forcing them, as you do, is unfair and ineffective. By removing the pension bonus that was a positive incentive to work longer, you made a mistake denounced by all. It might not be effective enough, but in that case it should be reformed and not deleted. The various positive incentives must remain. That is why we have tabled a bill to encourage workers to pursue their careers through a tax credit. But, as we know, despite all the possible and unimaginable incentives put in place, the individual choice of working longer must be made feasible by modern and adapted working conditions. The working conditions of our citizens must therefore be modernised. With this in mind, although I know the government and I do not hide my concern, I welcome the Minister for Employment's reflection on the work that can be done. I hope that, this time, we will not be disappointed and that concrete measures of social progress and respect for social dialogue can be put in place. In any case, the chronology and method of work of the government is absurd – this was again recalled a moment ago. Rather than lowering the pension age to make work possible later, it must be made feasible today. Then we'll see if we can raise the pension age. I am convinced that, with adjustments in working conditions and appropriate incentives, the effective age would naturally fall. Similarly, it would have been essential for discussions on the criteria for penitibility and agreements to take place prior to the adoption of a draft law on the legal age of retirement. If we want to be respectful of social dialogue, we must give the partners the opportunity to discuss this issue, but also the conditions for early retirement, exceptions to be made for difficult careers. We must be able to allow them to discuss all this, to give them time to agree on the whole reform. That is what social consultation is all about! Colleagues, the government is also tackling the survivor's pension by providing that it will take the age of 55 and not more than 50, as foreseen in the last reform. This measure is asocial and will have the effect of penalising people who are bruised by the death of their spouse, while older people are unlikely to return to work. And at 55, it's much harder than at 50! There is therefore a major risk of precarisation of the public concerned by this measure, which will once again concern women in particular. The government justifies all these reforms by stating that our pension system is financially unsustainable and that its attack on our pensions is essential to ensure the payment of pensions for future generations and thus to save our social model. It's a fatality, it's the only responsible attitude, but it's actually the logic of fear! In short: hurting people for their own good! This is an ideological discourse that does not hold when confronted with reality. What threatens us today is not so much the ageing of the population as your government's willingness to adopt neo-liberal revenues that threaten social security and its financing. First, the government feels that pension funding is a problem that needs to be addressed in isolation. It is to be forgotten that since 1994, the various branches of social security, such as pensions, unemployment or disability, are no longer funded separately but are financed by the overall management of social security. The fact that the payment of pensions can no longer be insured if the statutory pension age is not raised to 67 is not true! The question is not the financing of pensions per se, but the overall financing of social security. In this regard, I look forward to the details of your agreement last night and, above all, the impact on the financing of social security. The government is also telling us that the cost of pensions will increase irrepressibly by 2060. What about it? According to the latest study by the Federal Planning Office, the cost of pensions will increase by about 3.5% of GDP by 2060. This means expenditure growth of 0.076 per cent per year between 2015 and 2060. Let's be serious! We are fully in a position to take on this increase if we so wish. If the growth in the cost of pensions is significant in the absolute and the share of GDP that must be spent on pension financing goes from 10.6 per cent in 2013 to more than 14 per cent in 2060, on the basis of these analyses by the Federal Office of the Plan, this does not mean that our pension system is unsustainable. Indeed, in order for the system to be unsustainable, the anticipated increase in cost would have to be prevented from being borne by our company, i.e., the remaining resources after the payment of the cost of pensions do not allow the company to guarantee its proper functioning. However, the figures of the Committee for the Study of Ageing show that, despite the increase in the cost of pensions, and are not denied, not only will the remaining resources not decrease, but they will increase considerably between 2015 and 2060. Thus, if we compare the development of GDP per capita, we can see that the increase in the share of pensions does not prevent the amount available to meet other needs – and there is, it is clear, an increase of 60%. It is therefore true that the cost of pensions will increase, but there will be no problem to bear it, since GDP will increase over the same period by several hundred billion euros. In other words, and to make it simple, if it is true that the portion of the cake that needs to be spent on pensions increases, the size of the cake increases enough to allow others to eat more than before. The system is therefore not unsustainable. For example, alternative financing, based on wealth, that would contribute the percentage of households on the widest shoulders rather than hitting the weakest, would ensure the sustainability of our social security system, allowing for more social justice. This is in fact a problem of political will and not a problem of financial sustainability. In addition, rather than tackling pensioners and future pensioners, it is possible to raise the effective age of retirement by providing incentives to encourage and not compel workers to pursue their careers. The PS therefore proposes to encourage workers to remain active by a bonus for all workers who can leave the pension but who choose to remain active. To make it possible to choose to continue working by taking concrete actions such as creating an individual right to training of four days for all workers and five days for workers aged 45 and over; to enable workers to adapt their working hours by better supporting companies that collectively reduce working time for older workers and by re-establishing the right to end-of-care credit at one-fifth of the time from 55 years and one-half of the time to 60 years; to improve working conditions by making mandatory the conclusion and monitoring of a plan for the employment of older workers in all enterprises and in the public sector, as provided for in collective agreement 104 negotiated by the social partners. It is also necessary to prevent the dropout of workers who have been used by the performance society, by requiring systematic monitoring of psycho-social risk analysis and by introducing a new time credit in case of identified risks of incapacity for work. For us socialists, reform yes, but regress, no! Finally, I would like to conclude with a few words on the advice of the Council of State, which raises a serious risk of unconstitutionality of the bill. First, in relation to Article 23 of the Constitution, which guarantees "the right to social security" and which provides for a standstill effect which precludes the legislator from significantly reducing the level of protection offered without justifying its necessity in relation to an aim of general interest. However, by tightening conditions for access to the early pension or by lowering the pension age, there is no doubt that a significant decline is being made. It is for the author of the act to explain how the measures envisaged are reasonably justified in the light of the principle of proportionality and the aim of the general interest pursued, namely the viability of the pension scheme. However, I had the opportunity a moment ago to demonstrate this, guaranteeing the viability of our pension system can be done by not reducing, and certainly not so drastically, the rights of current and future pensioners. Since there are less intrusive alternatives, the measures proposed today must be considered unconstitutional for breach of Article 23. In addition, the bill could violate the constitutional principle of equality by treating different situations, such as those with difficult careers and others, in the same way. Indeed, it seems to me that by setting the same age criteria for all, regardless of the specificities and difficulty of careers, the government does not take into account an objective criterion of distinction, which is not tolerable. Colleagues, we are in favour of a comprehensive, simple and readable reform. However, like the Council of State, I regret that the government's salucissonage leads to an increase in the complexity of the legislation and makes government reforms inaccessible and unreadable. In conclusion, my group will oppose and continue to oppose this bill, which we consider undemocratic, unfair, absurd, ineffective, unconstitutional and discriminatory. We ask the government to put this project in the fridge - let's dream for a moment! - and to return with a clear, legible, coherent and, above all, socially just overall reform, subject to a broad democratic debate, in order to positively reform our pension system and working conditions in accordance with our democratic values.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u21	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is a new stage in the comprehensive pension reform, which is absolutely one of the most important for our government in the reform of our country. In 2004, a number of socialist foremen said that we were sitting on a hinged moment. We then got the impression that this hinge has begun to rust. It is only recently that a number of non-socialist ministers have taken first steps towards making the pension system sustainable. Unfortunately for them that took place in a constellation that had limitations, given the composition of government. What does that mean? That today we are in an ageing situation, of course not a purely Belgian phenomenon, but a global phenomenon, in which economists such as Peersman and Schoors find in their book that Belgium of all countries is only prepared to tackle this ageing problem. The Committee on 2020-2040, to which reference is made here on a regular basis, notes that, in the case of an unchanged policy, we are given an unaffordable pension account. Hopefully there is a consensus on this, although that consensus is not so broad, as my predecessor's speech shows. Today, 21 percent of the large government budget is spent on pensions. This will increase by 3.5 to 4% of GDP. Let us not forget that this is an increase of 7% to 8% in public expenditure. Life expectancy is also increasing, fortunately, in healthy years, even though we have seen for decades that the retirement age has fallen systematically, up to a few years ago. There is, of course, a contradiction in that, strangely enough, has not been taken into account in the past. Recently, the annual report of the PDOS, the public sector pension service, for example, has shown that 75%, three quarters of our officials, have already cleared the ground once they have reached the age of 60. For example, those who started working in 1970 now have a full career of 45 years. Those who started their careers then had a life expectancy of 67 years, while in the course of their careers life expectancy has risen to 80 years. These are, of course, figures that cannot be ignored. That has consequences, too. The choice we have made in the past to get out of work more and more quickly has implications for the level of pensions or, as I have to say in our case, the low level of pensions. Of course, the fact that our pensions are lower than in the neighbouring countries cannot be separated from the fact that we are also retiring extremely quickly. As has been pointed out here, we have spent hours and days debating this in the committee. These debates were indeed very useful because they showed that, in addition to the numerical environmental factors, there are also clear differences in the vision of society. I believe that this should also be done in a democracy. We have heard a left which seems to close our eyes to a number of elements of reality and which, in this debate too, are particularly keen to be caught up in populism which, when it comes to retirement after 67 years, are of course easy to slogans. I should also like to congratulate the members of the opposition on the way in which they perfectly illustrate, through a lemon action, how sour they look at this problem and how restrictive, conservative and inspirationless they engage in this debate. We have also noticed this in previous speakers. In fact, it is said that politics must not take steps until there is a social agreement. This means, of course, that a kind of right of veto is given to every participant in the social dialogue. After all, if only one partner is unable to agree to any agreement, then one continues to favour it on the spot.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u22	Mr De Roover, you call the opposition soured and populist. That is good to begin with, very constructively and in terms of content. You're making it a caricature. Indeed, almost every opposition group recognises that longer working is part of the solution to pay the pension bill. However, we are going a step further than the majority. In fact, we are asking the question, which I am now asking you, whether you recognise the fact that there is such a thing as heavy professions, professions that cannot last for as long as a less demanding profession? So we are much further away from the reasoning. You are stuck with the idea that we should work longer and that the retirement age should be increased. But what if that doesn't solve the problem? How will you make longer working work workable? Then it stops. We do not get an answer to these questions either from your group or from the Minister. So we are not acidified or populist at all, but very realistic. We ask the questions that matter, but there are no answers to them, except for one. The aspect of the heavy-duty professions will be addressed by the social partners and the National Pension Conference. However, you did not wait to pass the bill here and oblige everyone to work longer by raising the age for early retirement to 63 years and the statutory retirement age to 67 years. You do not answer the question of how this works.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u23	Mr De Roover, it's not us, but you, your party and the other parties who use slogans as priceless. We're not gonna make it. We have always made constructive proposals. I repeat, there are three things that every professor in this Pension Commission agrees with. Firstly, there must be a global reform. What is happening here is always working with small pieces, so one doesn't really see the end goal. Secondly, there must be broad support for such a major pension reform. You and your government don't have that broad support at all. It is not that we say that any social partner can have a right of veto. You were talking about the socialists. I am also a socialist, and I am not saying this, but I say that there must be dialogue with the social partners. There is no such dialogue at the moment, and that dialogue always comes after it. The Pension Committee was only installed afterwards, and still very limited, because it should only come together at the request of the Minister and with questions from the Minister. There is therefore no such broad support today. Thirdly, there must be certainty, certainty about both the affordability and the level of pensions. This draft law also does not meet this requirement. This afternoon we will discuss the tax shift in question and the way to finance a number of things. On this point, the Committee on Pensions has made it very clear that we must get rid of a system whose affordability is guaranteed only by labour. We also need to look at another way of financing pensions, and this can be done through wealth. Now come to say that the opposition has only spoken in slogans, has not made any constructive proposals and also says that there is no problem in the future, this is a bit of a rape. We didn't say this. As Mr De Vriendt has just said, each party has stressed that something must be done. Each party has also said that we need to think about working longer. There is no solution to this proposal either. The retirement age is being increased, but the pension bonus is being abolished, while it has just been an incentive to work longer. You don't think so, but so did the Pension Commission. The Pension Commission, to which you always like to refer, states that it is a wrong signal to abolish the pension bonus. Afterwards, Minister Peeters will look again in the social dialogue at how workable work is possible. The consultation always happens afterwards. This is not a way of dialoguing, especially if we want such great reform. If you want a serious debate, Mr De Roover, which you are always in favour of, I would ask you once again to do this serenely and not just to speak in slogans.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u24	Mr President, my criticism of caricatures and populism is contradicted here by someone who has a lemon on her couch. If there's anything caricature and populist, it's that lemon. The same person who is asking for a serene debate is sending around a colleague with a fruit basket. To be honest, I have a different impression of a serene debate. Your lemon, ma'am, is a caricature. Your lemon is populist. I'm not taking back a word of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u25	Since you have not understood at all what this is about and have no sense of humor at all, I will explain it again. Mr De Roover, why do we have lemons? Not here, we did it outside Parliament. This proposal is very detrimental to women. Women have a shorter career, are usually forced into part-time jobs, usually have to take care of children, which makes it very difficult for them to build a full-time career. We do not want women to be squeezed further. That's kind of a symbol of that. If you can't laugh at that and throw the whole debate from before into one heap, I'm sorry, but then that's very, very small of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u26	Mrs Temmerman, I can reassure you, I can really laugh with your lemon, that is certainly not the problem. However, as an argument in the debate, I find them less relevant. Mrs Temmerman, there is indeed a socialist here and there who is less demagogic, I certainly do not contradict that. There are interesting ideas on that side, I certainly do not contradict that. In the opposition to what is going on here, however, I see the tendency to give people the impression that everyone will have to work for up to 67 years now, that everyone will hardly come to that scarce pension, which this government will reduce again, etcetera etcetera. I will deal with a number of issues later, including the elements raised by Mr De Vriendt. Well, this government will take the bull by the horns to offer perspective back. Because today the whole of society is being squeezed out, all working people are being squeezed out today to make a system that, although it has just been contradicted, is constantly weighing up budgets, sustainable again. I'm going to call someone here as a witness, and you'll be surprised that I'm calling this witness from the N-VA. In fact, in order to show that there are sometimes sensible voices on the left, I would like to refer here to Mr Tsipras, who has been regularly quoted here in other circumstances. A lot of people look very closely at the Prime Minister of Greece, so maybe he's more convincing than I am. Tsipras said the following on Greek television a few days ago about retirement at 67 and leaving early retirement age. I quote: 'We should have done so ourselves. It is not progressive to allow people to retire early. (Applause from the Group of the European People's Party) It is an achievement that I applaud the majority on a quotation from Tsipras, an achievement on which I am very proud. There is an arithmetical wisdom which states that if we want to get a little closer to the neighbouring countries with our actual age of exit and therefore we will have to work three to four years longer, the arithmetical average can only be maintained if some of the people remain at work effectively above the age of 65. Moreover, this measure is currently being introduced in almost all countries, if it is not already implemented. We have once again disputed what the opposition claims in this regard, and indeed held a wide-ranging social debate. I have to admit, however, that when I hear the statements of the opposition, this also applies to my speech and to the statements by my fellow Members from the majority of the House that I get the impression that the debate on that part of the pension reform has not only been conducted, but has also been milked out. We have not found any new arguments, not the opposition, to attack them, nor the majority, to defend them. This also makes sense after such a wide-ranging social debate outside and within Parliament. I would like to repeat the truth. The core of what is going on here is that the 45-year limit remains untouched in the numerator and denominator division. This means that a full career in the past was 45 years before the current reform and that a full career after the current reform continues to last the same number of springes, namely 45. There is no change in this respect. However, the reform does mean that those who do not have a full career at the age of 65 will have the opportunity to work two years longer, which will obviously mean that the person concerned will see his pension increase. There are a number of blames, which I would like to go into again. We would take away the work of young people. However, the facts speak a different language. I don't know if the print of what I'm showing you right now is fantastic. On the one hand, you can see the employment rate of older people and, on the other hand, the employment rate of young people from various OECD countries. You will notice that there is a perfect relationship between the two groups. The employment rate of older people and young people does not go in the opposite direction, but in the same direction, for the obvious reason that everyone who is active in the profession naturally also creates economic activity. The opposite of that statement is true. If we have an increasing cost picture of the pension situation today, no matter how we run it, the bill goes to the active population, to the younger generations. If we can broaden this group of the active population, the burden per shoulder will automatically decrease. When I talk to young people about retirement conditions, that happens sometimes, I used to do it a lot from my professional background, so it seems at first as if that would be a far-from-their-bed show for them. The opposite is true, however. Today, in terms of pensions, I see a very neglected atmosphere among young people. They even assume that they should no longer count on a pension. As a political class, we have ensured that young people's confidence in the important social security cathedral has almost completely melted away. Today, they assume that this is nothing that will happen to them. Well, this government is going through these measures that can reverse the negative atmosphere and will be able to make it clear that a small effort by everyone will ensure that good pensions can be offered in the future, which is essential. Second criticism, there are no accompanying measures. Having looked at the relevant texts, I note that the maximum retirement age will increase to 66 years in 2025 and 67 years in 2030. We write today 2015. This means that for ten years I can invite all my fellow Members to use this time fruitfully, which is a long period of time. It can be done much faster and we have the ambition to work on it in full. After all, this is part of a larger project in which longer working is indeed the element with which we put the poles out while the rest of the building will follow. It is said that the whole reform is being saucissoned. Well, this reform is being implemented gradually. I am thinking, for example, of the heavy professions which Mr De Vriendt, who is now asking for the floor, has mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u27	Mr De Roover, you say that the increase in the statutory retirement age to 67 years does not start until 10 years and we therefore still have time for the accompanying measures. You forget, of course, that the increase in the early retirement age does not start within ten years. You forget to mention this here, of course for a very good reason. The increase in the early retirement age starts from 2017. I have just asked you how you will make working longer for everyone. You have still not answered that, and I am therefore waiting in suspense, because that is the key question. If the new provisions do not enter into force until 2017, you will indeed have a little time. Then why didn't you wait until the National Pension Committee was able to give advice on the heavy-duty professions and workable work? If it ever happens, if that day ever comes and if this government takes action for people in the care sector, construction workers, workers, heavy professions and so on, it must be translated into a new bill. Why not wait until there is clarity about the heavy professions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u28	Mr De Vriendt, it seems to me quite obvious that a reform should first introduce the rule and then the exception. You actually propose to look at the exceptions first and then think about the general rule. However, my logic is different and so is the logic of this reform. We are almost accused of presenting this issue to the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u29	Too late!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u30	That's not too late at all. Mrs. Temmerman, you contradict yourself. You tell us that if the social partners do not agree on the heavy professions, this measure must not be introduced. This means once again that you give a right of veto to each participant in the social dialogue. We disagree on that. That's okay, but we disagree.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u31	Mr De Roover, it is clear that we differ on this, but you put words in my mouth that are not correct and that I did not say. I say that we must first have a broad social dialogue and then take the decision. You make the decision first and then you enter into the social dialogue. I'm not saying there has to be a veto from anyone. You just didn't have a social consultation. You are taking one case out of it, particularly the heavy professions, and the social partners may then discuss it for a while. But it doesn't work that way! If we want broad support and a major pension reform, we must discuss it with the social partners in advance. Then the way in which people deal with heavy professions is part of that. That is not an exception, Mr De Roover, but part of the existence of a number of people who are now living in total uncertainty. They do not know what will happen to their hard work and thus their careers. As has just been said, there was enough time to discuss this, so that excuse does not go on. But this government simply didn't want to argue. This government simply wanted to push this through. The proof of this is also the way it has dealt with Parliament. We have been able to correct this in part, thanks to the President-in-Office, but in fact they wanted to push it down Parliament's throat as quickly as possible, when there was no reason to do so. That is why you want to implement this pension reform in this way and why you do not want social consultation in advance. I will repeat it for the last time, it is not about the right of veto of the social partners. It is about dialogue with the social partners, a dialogue that you and your government constantly avoid.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u32	Mrs Temmerman, I think you have unintentionally summarized the philosophy of all socialist ministers of pensions over the past 25 years in the great catchy sense: there is still plenty of time. That is the philosophy that led us to implement this reform today. There's always plenty of time for you, but we catch the bull by the horns. We won't be stuck with the suits anymore. It may sadden you, but the dogs bark, and the caravan passes by.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u33	Mr De Roover, you said yourself that there is still plenty of time. You yourself said that it will only be in 2030. Those are your words, not mine. If it is only before 2030, there was plenty of time to organise the social dialogue. That's my point. Please, stop every time everything the opposition says to make a caricature.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u34	Mr. De Roover, the dogs are barking, the caravan is passing by. Your ruling could be passed if only the members of the opposition were concerned about this reform. To continue in your metaphor: there are currently a lot of barking dogs. Perhaps it is not so bad to take a little account of the people who are worried today. You are trying to say, also with regard to Mr De Vriendt, that we do not want to reform, that there is work to be done and that we need to deal with things now. However, that is not the debate. I believe that Mr De Vriendt also made it clear in committee that we must do things to keep social security and pensions viable. It is just that we are challenging two fundamental issues. Firstly, that this is done by raising the legal age. Our party has always been in favour of firm reasoning in career years. Secondly, what is even more important is that we miss a whole package in this area to ensure that dogs do not have to worry at all and do not bark, namely the workable package. I just heard the Prime Minister's press conference. Many measures have been reviewed, but no concrete measures have been taken in the field of workable work either. Here's what we're gonna do. Reform, yes, but also empathy for the people who are worried today. And that's far from just the opposition. In concrete terms, many people in the workplace are asking for empathy and concrete reforms in the field of workable work. They are not on the table, which makes your pension measures an unbalanced and unfair package.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u35	Mr Calvo, there is already a gap between unbalanced and unjust. I repeat that this is a step-by-step reform in order to prevent the fish from drowning in the bowl and to prevent us from setting anchor points, after which we systematically allow this reform to flourish. Workable work is an important part of this. Both our and other groups of the majority have already carried out very useful and interesting work on this. Working, I feel under the skin of this kind of discussion, is usually seen a bit biblical as you will earn your living in the sweat of your appearance. Hence the reference in the discussion of the report. Labour is viewed rather unilaterally as a punishment, while everything shows how important it is for social contacts and for self-realization and so on, that people work and are given the opportunity to do so. In practice, a number of measures still need to be taken. In this gallery, I make an explicit appeal to the employers, who must also accept their responsibilities. No longer ago than this week, someone told me that his wife had applied three times and got three times in response that she was too old. The person concerned was rightly shocked: she is 48 years old. At the age of forty-eight you are permanently told that you are too old, on the one hand, unacceptable, and, on the other hand, also has to do with the fact that some still consider 48 years as a person of limited duration, someone at the end of the career. Somewhere there is a bridge pension which indicates the end of the career at 52 years or 53 years. If we make it clear in the future that people of 48 years still have extensive opportunities to change careers, for example, and to give a different direction to what they have done in the past, then this will bring about the necessary change of attitude which will indeed have to be felt by employers. I think that's as ready as a whistle.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u36	I would like to say something about the fucking Socialists and your discourse. We have been saying for years that work is important, and that is one of our basic principles. I do not think that emphasis is so innovative. I think we should do that, just so we're clear. What I am particularly pleased about is that you have finally come to the understanding that employers need to make efforts to provide opportunities and continue to provide opportunities for older people from the age of 40 and older people on the labour market. I challenge you, once you are 50 years old, to find another job. That is absolutely not evident. I assure you that all these prejudices about older people are still very strong. I therefore hope that you will be consistent and decisive, and willing to change, by making sure that results commitments are linked to that tax shift that was apparently decided last night. Employers should also create jobs for people over 40 years of age and make mandatory efforts to give them a chance on the labour market. However, if I look at the target group policy in Flanders, of the rest, I am less aware of it, and that does not seem to me to be the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u37	Mr De Roover, you really shoot caricature after caricature. It really doesn't stop. The next caricature in the list is that the opposition has something against working and people who work. In the meantime, I think this is the seventh caricature in your discourse and you haven't been at it very long. In my speech, I started by saying that longer work is part of the solution. What part of that sentence do you not understand? Where would you get us to deny this? So stop with the caricatures. Stop that left-wing opposition you're so eager to see and want to blow you up. Let us look at solutions, Mr De Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u38	You feel addressed, Mr De Vriendt. If the shoe fits...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u39	Of course I'm touched. You're addressing us. Why don't you look for solutions for people with a hard job? I got an e-mail from someone who's now 54 years old and started working at 14 years. Those people exist too, Mr De Roover. This man tells us he will have to work for 46 years because of this N-VA government's highly acclaimed pension reform. I know the work ethic is sacred to you, Mr De Roover, but there really are limits. Making people work in a heavy occupation for 46 years is not our vision. We disagree, in the sense that we want solutions for those people, because there are many of them. You can close your eyes and transfer all these cases to the National Pension Committee, but in the meantime we receive emails from these people. In that sense, you're not doing very well. You're working on caricatures. We're working on solutions. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u40	A person who started working at 14 years and wanted to retire in 2013 had 38 years to do it. In 2016 that is 40 years and one has to reach the age of 62 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u41	Mr De Vriendt, I would advise you to pass on such e-mails to us, so that we can give them a serious answer. Moreover, you should not launch them as crooked propaganda. It is in this way, if you reply to the person concerned, that this is the result of this pension reform, that in the area of caricatures, I am very much in the shadow of your speech. Your one caricature plays my seven little caricatures heavily, in a way that even I can't compete with.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u42	The facts are different. In 2021, that man is 60 years old and only then can he retire early, after a career of 46 years, since he started working at 14 years. Those are the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u43	Mr President, I suspect you need a break. I would just like to give Mrs De Coninck the following answer. Mrs De Coninck, I fully agree with the first part of your speech, but I must say that in the last part you raised, the difference between us becomes clear. Employers have a responsibility, but employers require people to hire, to demand what you call a commitment to results, that does not work. I'm very sorry it doesn't work. I'd really like your creatability formulas to work. The world would look much more beautiful if your starting points were right. Unfortunately, they are not correct, but you do not care. You pretend they're right, you pretend you can create employment by decree. It is true, Mrs De Coninck, that we differ fundamentally on that point.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u44	Mr De Roover, if you are consistent, you should not even apply a tax shift or even reduce wages for employers, since it does not help. You are also assuming that you can make it work. You hand out money and there is no commitment to it; you can use it perfectly to pay out more profits to the shareholders.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u45	Mr De Roover, I certainly wanted to have a little debate before the break. Do you really think it is logical to ask the Belgian working population to work for up to 67 years, while the majority of Members here will be able to retire for 55 years? You have given a response in the press to the Labour Party by saying that this is not true. I have therefore begun to study the Rules of Procedure carefully and all Members of this House who took the oath before 1 June 2014 may retire by 55 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u46	The services of the Chamber contradict that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u47	I'll finish my reasoning. At 52 years they can retire early. Then I ask whether it is logical and normal for Members of the majority parties to ask the working population to work for up to 67 years and to approve for themselves that they can leave at 55 years?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u48	Mr Hedebouw, you would be more convincing if your information were correct. You seem to have a pension specialist in your ranks. So I assume that someone who specializes in this can clearly provide material. Apart from the fact that I personally believe that the pension scheme is now more than enough in the strengthened legislation, I think that we should be able to engage in dialogue, but you should provide the right information. Those in this legislature, at least that is what the services of the Chamber have told me in that interpretation, must at least wait until 62 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u49	Mr President, I would like to respond briefly to the previous discussion with Mrs Becq. I have looked up the government's explanatory statement and also the table. I note that Mrs Becq and Mr De Roover do not know their own pension reform. In the table of the government it is not our table..... it is very clear that the minimum age for early retirement is 60 years, coupled with a minimum career of 44 years. The man in question who started working at 14 years old, and so there are many people who have reached the minimum age of 60 years, will have worked for 46 years. That's your pension reform. That's unrealistic. We are working on solutions for people in such difficult professions, but I note that you yourself do not know your own regulations, let alone that you are willing or ready to go to such solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u50	Mr President, I would like to return to the pensions of our Parliaments. Mr De Roover, I am pleased that you believe that these pensions are still large enough, which means that you implicitly state that something may need to be done about them. You will have the opportunity to do so, because we have tabled an amendment on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u51	This does not fit in with the current legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u52	That doesn't fit in with the current legislation? That fits in well with the legislation. You can do it perfectly. That is certainly not an argument. Our proposal is this. When workers in this country change things, they also change things for parliaments in this country. Perhaps we should have that debate. However, you will have a chance tonight after 6:00 p.m. At that time, you will be able to support our amendment, after which we will be able to really start the debate on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u53	Mr President, I have here the Rules of Procedure of the Pension Fund for People's Representatives, which were adopted by the General Assembly on 8 December 1983. It concerns the expenditure of March 2014. I propose that we receive an official reply from the President or the services on this very important political issue by this evening. Mr De Roover, what do I read in Article 3 of each of the effective members of the Pension Fund for People's Representatives entitled to an interest and, where appropriate, to a retirement pension for the validated mandate acquired until 31 May 2014. That's what it's about. There were elections on 25 May 2014. It concerns the date of 31 May 2014. Most Members here today, except those who came to Parliament after the elections, are therefore entitled to leave at the age of 55. When it comes to the rights themselves and how much is earned, which is an important point that the workers and servants of this country should know for sure, the following applies. For those who will have one parliamentary mandate, a pension of EUR 1 569 per month will have been built. However, if you have fulfilled two mandates, many of us will receive a pension of EUR 3 138. Members with three mandates........................................................................................................................................................... So I have a problem with it that it is said here today that the government wants to keep everyone working longer, while the majority of this hemisphere will be able to retire at the age of 55. Is that true or not? That is the question to which we must have an answer before the vote today. It is a politically important issue. Can MEPs leave before the age limit we set for the workers and servants of this country?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u54	Mr Hedebouw, I would indeed think that this is a technical matter. According to the information provided to me, your data is out of date, but let us get the technicians involved, because rules are rules and their application, I suppose, cannot be done in two or three different ways.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip067x.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the late hour and in consultation with Mr De Roover, I propose that our sitting be closed here. We will resume the pension debate in the course of the day. Then we will continue with Mr De Roover, because now a Conference of Presidents is planned. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 23 July 2015 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 23 July 2015, at 2.15 p.m.
