ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic154x.u1	Mr President, can I present you with a constructive proposal to give our colleagues a chance to join us? Perhaps we could start with Mr Dispa's question? Then I'll put down the one that's not attached. Finally, I will ask my attached question. If they're still not here, that's too bad for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic154x.u2	It's a charming proposal from Ecolo.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic154x.u3	I am always so, Mr President, although some colleagues sometimes doubt it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic154x.u4	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Gilkinet for having submitted this proposal to you, which is very helpful to me. Madam Secretary of State, on Tuesday 31 March, during scheduled hearings in the Finance Committee, we were able to hear three investigative journalists, members of the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, who worked on the LuxLeaks, Offshore Leaks and SwissLeaks cases. These hearings were very interesting. In the course of the discussions, the following point was raised. It appears that the Financial Information Processing Unit (FTIC) does not have access to the central bank register. Madam Secretary of State, do you confirm this information? If that is the case, do you intend to take steps to remedy this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic154x.u5	Mr Dispa, it is true that CTIF does not have access to the central bank register. In its recent evaluation report, the FATF (Financial Action Task Force) recommended that Belgium, in its note 2.11, give this access to the TIF. In my political guidance note, it is only about access to the central contact point for judicial officers. However, there is nothing to exclude that, as a result of this suggestion, we were considering granting the same right to CTIF.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic154x.u6	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I understand that you do not exclude making this access possible. That is good, but I believe that a further step should be taken in order to have a truly effective instrument in the fight against tax fraud. I therefore encourage you to allow such access as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic154x.u7	Mr President, first of all, I should like to say that I agree with the suggestion made by Mr Dispa on his question. Madam Secretary of State, as part of the budgetary adjustment, the government has announced additional revenues of EUR 100 million in the fight against tax fraud. Can you tell me on what basis this additional amount was estimated? How much, in total, will the federal government's revenue targets for the fight against tax evasion be? What will be done to achieve or even exceed these objectives? Are there any additional staff at the level of the Special Inspectorate of Taxes (SII), particularly in view of the influx of new cases (such as the HSBC file) and the need to prevent future departures to the pension of certain investigators, as indicated by the ISI boss, at a hearing held in this commission? Will other legal tools, in line with the recommendations of the commission of inquiry on major tax fraud or with the recommendations of the Financial Action Group (FATF) be adopted in the near future? How long?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic154x.u8	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, the fight against tax evasion is a priority for the government. A realistic amount was estimated on the basis of the investments made. The government agreement provides $75 million for this purpose and an additional $100 million was added in the preparation of the 2015 budget. In order to reach this latter amount, the ISI should have 100 additional officers. In addition, a number of specific measures have been taken. I am thinking in particular of the intensification of the fight against fraud on the Internet. In this way, we are investing in the Belgium Internet Service Center (BISC), thus triplanting the number of its staff members. In addition, we are investing significantly in the acquisition of new computer hardware and software. The number of data mining projects within the ISI is also expanded. These projects fall within the scope of those of Benelux, in particular the social network analysis which is extended to the European Union, two new projects can be launched by committing the expertise already acquired at the level of VAT data mining, on the one hand, and, on the other, by investing in the recruitment of additional specialists and the acquisition of new software. A total of EUR 2,125 million will be invested. By linking social and tax databases more effectively, the exchange of data between ONSS and the tax administration on foreign workers in the construction sector will be optimised. Indeed, many foreign workers are active in the construction sector, resulting in unfair competition and social dumping. In practice, we find that companies are being abused, especially to launder dirty money. This type of fraud is generally related to tax cases, such as VAT fraud, fictitious invoicing scams, liquidity companies. The fight against these practices is also intensified. Thanks to 100 additional staff members within the ISI, we compensate, among other things, for the future departure of public servants who retire. As was clearly stated by the ISI administration at its hearing, 16 members of its staff were born between 1950 and 1953. To answer your last question, the repair of the una via is an adaptation that meets the recommendations. If everything goes according to plans, it will be ready by the end of June.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic154x.u9	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for that clarification. You are talking about realism; I prefer to talk about ambition in the fight against tax fraud. The total cost of tax evasion for public finances is estimated by universities at €20 billion. You started at 75 million, you add 100, that's 175 million euros. Given the stakes and budgetary situation of our State, this remains relatively unambitious. I understand that additional resources will be devoted to this. We pay particular attention to the means available to the ISI and to the question of replacing its experienced investigators. I mean that in other areas, you will multiply by three the means available, in particular in the fight against fraud on the Internet. But if we know we're starting with two officials, it'll only be six. With regard to the implementation of the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry on Major Tax Fraud, it is necessary to repair the una via, but other measures have not yet been implemented, including the penalisation of intermediaries who collaborate in fraud mechanisms, such as lawyers or bankers, and other measures that we believe are important. So you still have a lot of work to do and we will continue to ask you about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic154x.u10	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, many sectors are seeking a revision of the cash payment limit, including used car vendors, the diamond sector, who are exercising a powerful lobby to promote their views. If I believe in particular the text of the question which was tabled by Mr. Van Biesen, who is not present, the diamond sector is particularly proactive in this area, which is not without asking questions, particularly in the light of, and without generalising, fraud cases in which some of these actors have been involved. Indeed, it is pointed out by the FATF as a sector particularly sensitive to money laundering. The HSBC listing consisted of a third of diamonds. Madam Secretary of State, what contacts have you made with these sectors since the debate on your general policy note in the Committee on Finance, where you proposed to raise this limitation on cash payments? Maybe you've gone backwards? Have you met any representatives from the diamond sector? When? What were the conclusions of this exchange? Can you confirm that the limits of cash payments will not be raised? Or have you changed your mind about it again?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic154x.u11	It is a recurring story and I hope that we will now have a definitive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic154x.u12	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, I am responding broadly to all the questions that have been asked on this subject. As I have already told some members of this committee, I intend to keep the cash payment threshold as low as possible. The limitation of cash payments has not only been imposed in the fight against tax fraud but also in the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The cash payment threshold therefore has an important role to play. The sectors which are seeking derogation and where the receipt of larger amounts in cash is in practice have in fact been somewhat identified as areas at risk for these phenomena. Nevertheless, the cash payment threshold also has negative effects on some economic sectors. Discussions are already taking place in my firm in a systematic manner with the various sectors, the various associations of economic interests in the motor vehicle trade and the exporters of used vehicles and machinery, the wholesale trade in fruit and vegetables, the furniture sector, the jewellery industry and, more generally, the Union of Independent Entrepreneurs. They have already explicitly expressed their concerns about the ban on cash payments as currently in force. To answer your specific question, Mr Gilkinet, no consultation has yet taken place with the diamond sector on any possible adjustment of the cash payment threshold. It is also important that we not lose sight of the European context. For the moment, we are still waiting for the fourth European anti-money laundering directive. It is clear that if not all the Member States of Europe apply the same level of prohibition, there is a risk of not only a shift in trade towards less controlled Member States, but also a shift in money laundering activities towards other countries. I have not yet received the relevant investigation and the study on the financial and economic impact, as well as the fiscal and criminal consequences in the fight against money laundering. However, the report should be finalised in the coming days and weeks and communicated through the office of the Minister of Economy, who is responsible for economic inspection services. The objective thus pursued is to identify the specific economic needs of each sector and, in particular, to identify and determine the desirability of being able to grant cash payments to customers and purchasers. In the future, it goes without saying that if an adjustment to the cash payment threshold is envisaged, this interest should be rigorously assessed on the basis of the efficiency of the limitation of cash payments, which is nevertheless an important anti-money laundering measure. To this end, reference will be made, inter alia, to supranational legislation, discussions with the various sectors, to the study of the Economic Inspectorate and to the opinion of the CTIF. Accompanying measures may offer a partial solution to avoid the relocation of certain activities to Member States where the ban on cash payments is less severe.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic154x.u13	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Sleurs probably attended, like other members of the government, the Jesuit school. It sets out a general principle: non-upgrading of the ceiling. Then she prepares minds for the introduction of exceptions. It refers, on the one hand, to what Europe is going to do and, on the other, to the development desired by certain sectors in this field. I do not know what Mrs Sleurs is going to do in this case, but I have the impression that she is considering the introduction of exceptions for certain sectors. We will be particularly vigilant because we are very sceptical about raising the ceilings in the context of the fight against fraud. These would be bad signals given to the sectors concerned. Mrs Sleurs, be very careful and, if possible, do not raise these ceilings.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic154x.u14	Debates of the European Parliament 2937 by Mr Geerts, 3341 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, 3460 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux and 3773 by Mr Piedboeuf are deleted.
