ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u1	Mr Minister, in your reply to my question in the committee of 21 January 2015 concerning the setting up of a committee to objectify maintenance contributions, you stated that a reminder was sent on 22 December 2014 to the authorities that had not yet responded to the first call at that time. The functions of judge, notary and debt mediator were still lacking. On 21 January 2015, a second call was published in the Belgian Official Journal. Candidates had to be submitted within the month following the publication. Now we are a few weeks later and I am therefore asking about the state of play. Have the missing professions proposed a candidate or applied for a job? If not, what further steps will be taken? Will this stop the committee from working? When will this committee be operational effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u2	Ms Uyttersprot, pursuant to Article 2 (2), second paragraph, of the Royal Decree of 7 February 2014, a call to candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 17 March 2014 for the purpose of fulfilling the mandates of the Commission for the Objectivation of Maintenance Fees. A second call was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 21 January 2015 as there were insufficient candidates for the functions of judge, notary and debt intermediary. With regard to the function of debt intermediary, letters were also sent to the Order of the Flemish Bars, los Ordre des Barreaux francophones et germanophone, since debt intermediaries are often lawyers. Letters were also sent to the National Chamber of Court Bailiffs because they are in contact with the debt intermediaries. Since this second call, an additional number of candidates have been proposed, in particular three candidates for the function of judge and only French-speaking candidates for the function of debt intermediary. There are no candidates for the position of notary yet. This is why a reminder was sent to the Royal Federation of the Belgian Notariat at the end of December. As soon as all functions can be filled out, the committee will be composed and assembled as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It was my intention to repeat the importance of the committee working quickly, as you understand. Of course, it is regrettable that the notaries have still not nominated anyone. I hope that this will not delay the entry into force too much, as the 2010 law did not provide for the creation of this committee without reason, with the objective of calculating maintenance contributions objectively. In practice, this often leads to legal uncertainty and wet fingering, not only in the case of a procedure, but also in the case of friendly recording of maintenance contributions. We look forward to a quick start-up and hope that you follow this up very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u4	Question No 2889 by Mr Dedecker is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u5	Minister, at the plenary meeting on 29 January, I asked the Prime Minister what the government was planning at national and European level to do to combat the worrying increase in anti-Semitic acts. He replied that this would be "zero tolerance, that every act should be the subject of a complaint and that every complaint should be followed up". Of course, it is anti-Semitism, but this zero tolerance must apply to any infringement of the 1981 law. My party, the MR, is currently leading the foundations of interculturality, in which we receive representatives of each philosophical community. The representatives of the Jewish community told us that, in many cases, the victims of anti-Semitic acts did not file a complaint, believing that it was of no use. Can you tell us how many complaints of anti-Semitism have been filed last year and how many of them have been or are being prosecuted at present? It is important that victims of anti-Semitism regain confidence in Belgian justice. In order to do so, awareness-raising work must be undertaken urgently, starting with the ministries and police forces that act on complaints. Furthermore, would it not be appropriate to issue a ministerial circular or the College of Attorneys General, which would specify the conduct to be adopted on the ground in the context of this "zero tolerance" against all such offences and anti-Semitism in particular?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already had the opportunity to make clear, the College of Prosecutors General cannot provide statistics in response to oral parliamentary questions, given the short response time. In this case, the College notes that the Public Prosecutor's Office does not have a computer tool enabling it to answer such questions in such a short time. Analysts must design a formula for extracting relevant computer data and then consider validating the results obtained, which cannot be achieved in such a short period of time, at least in the current state of the material and human resources available to the Public Prosecutor's Office. This does not detract from the accuracy of your comments on the importance to be attached to any xenophobic or anti-Semitic act. In this regard, a joint circular by the Minister of Justice, the Minister of the Interior and the College of Attorneys General on the research and prosecution policy on discrimination and hate crimes was adopted on 13 June 2013. It is an ambitious text that seeks to raise awareness of discrimination issues in both police and prosecutors' offices, particularly when based on racism, anti-Semitism or xenophobia. Without detailing this long circular, I note that a reference magistrate with regard to discrimination and hate crimes is appointed within each public prosecutor's office, auditorate or public prosecutor's office and the general auditorate responsible for coordination, information and awareness-raising of judges, police services, etc. The same applies to the federal police and to each local police force. The circular provides that when the prosecution is seized of such facts for which evidence has been gathered, there will always be a reaction on its part, the form of which will depend on the seriousness of the acts committed. The reaction can take the form of a reminder to the law (pretorian probation), a criminal mediation, a transaction, a summons to the correctional court. The College of Attorneys-General continues to provide information, training and awareness-raising to stakeholders in the field on these matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u7	Minister, thank you for that answer. I understand that it is difficult to extract the encrypted data in such a short period of time. I also understand that there is a possibility. I will try to obtain this data in another way as it will help to objectify the increase in reported acts and their follow-up. If a circular was published in 2013, I will not fail to relay it to the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u8	Mr President, Minister, as you know, a few years ago the French Community renamed itself Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles. This isn't the official name. That name change was merely a political statement. Constitutional, legal and legal it has no meaning whatsoever in the Belgian state order, but to my great surprise I notice that this name regularly appears in the Belgian Official Journal. The most recent example is in the Belgian Official Journal of 3 March, where the term is used twice on page 14961. My simple question is this. I hope that I will get an equally simple and clear answer. What is the legal value of messages originating from a non-existent institution? The Wallonia-Brussels Federation There is no official record of this. Do you think this is possible? If not, do you intend to take measures to prevent this from happening in the future? I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u9	Mr President, Mrs Pas, it is the responsibility of the client to publish a notice in the Belgian Official Journal to check whether his text is correct and legally binding. Neither the Minister of Justice nor the services of the Belgian Official Journal have any control over official notices. The Belgian Official Journal can only contact the client and point to a number of possible legal consequences of certain choices made. It is, however, ultimately this client who takes the final decisions and thus also the final responsibility. This has been done in the past, and not just in relation to this problem. In this particular case, the term Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles is not used by the Belgian Official Journal as an indication of the origin of a regulatory text, nor is it included in the options for structured searches in the database.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u10	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I wonder whether you can or may insist on contacting the client in this regard with the Belgian Official Journal yourself. I am convinced that, if the reverse were to happen and the client would appear in the Belgian Official Journal if the Flanders-Brussels Federation, there would be some fuss about it and many questions would be asked. I therefore hope that the Belgian Official Journal will contact the client, whether or not you insist, and that this will not happen again in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u11	Mr Minister, my question is quite a sandwich. A few years ago, we introduced the Salduz legislation in a period of ongoing business. We had interesting debates on this with Minister De Clerck at the time. It was then decided that a suspect could appeal to an attorney at the first interrogation. This legislation came at the request of Europe, following the Salduz judgment. This brought with it a lot of costs for the Belgian justice system: we had to provide interrogation rooms or renovate them. We know that the cost of legal second-line assistance has increased considerably as a result of this regulation. The previous Commissioner for Justice, Mrs Reding, had plans to extend this legislation even further and to allow a lawyer to be interviewed. We had not yet incorporated this into the legislation; there were some thresholds. She had plans for the presence of a lawyer from the beginning to the end of the trial. I questioned Minister De Clerck about this in 2011, and he replied that we had objected to this enlargement and sent a letter to other countries together. This was remarkable: for the first time, Belgium went against the European Commission with other countries, through a document submitted to Mrs Reding. At first this was an idea and it could still be objected to, but the introduction turned out to be a reality: Europe intended to impose that any questioning would allow a suspect to consult his lawyer. We know that this will give a lot of extra costs. Investigators fear a form of coaching of the truth finding, a risk one tries to estimate, but I leave that in the middle. We also know from the ongoing review of the Salduz legislation that this is still not working perfectly. In Flanders it is going quite well, the counters can organize themselves well. In French-speaking Belgium, on the other hand, the figures are shocking. After all, only in 41% of the cases has an effective lawyer been found for that initial questioning. So we are introducing a rule that we cannot always live up to here. Moreover, the discussion of the fees that lawyers should receive in this context is not linked to that. The lawyers believe that these fees are too low. It was finally announced that a working group would be set up to examine the impact of the new European directive on our legal system. A number of provisions have also been included in the coalition agreement. A new evaluation will be carried out and corrections may need to be made to ensure a clear balance between the right of defence, on the one hand, and the work and workload, on the other hand, as well as cost control. This brings me to a large number of questions, which will also be interesting during the exercise that we will shortly be making together in the context of the legislation and the drafts that will be presented. Will the new enlargement of the EU directive be effective soon to be introduced by all Member States? If so, by when will that have to happen? Is that a realistic import date for us? Shall we be ready? Does the new directive satisfy the concerns that Belgium formally submitted to the European Commission in 2011 by letter? To what extent were these objections taken into account? How did the European directive come about in the end? Has Belgium continued to protest? We have also asked your predecessor, Mrs Turtelboom. Will you continue to protest? We don't know that. Perhaps you do not share today the objections that were raised at the time to the European Commission. If necessary, I'd like to hear that, too. In 2011, we have always said that the new enlargement should be framed in a complete revision of Belgian criminal procedure law. We shall do so this legislature. However, with the introduction of the directive, which I fear we are waiting for the debate to get closer, will we be able to land in time? Will it be even, or who will be first? What has been the final cost of second-line legal assistance for Salduz cases since the introduction of Salduz in Belgium? How does that cost relate to the total cost? What costs have Salduz brought to Belgian justice in recent years? I am thinking of the adaptation of interrogation rooms, and so on. What is the estimated cost of the new EU directive for Belgian justice, both in terms of additional costs in legal second-line assistance and infrastructure interventions? In how many percent of cases was a lawyer found in Flanders for the first interrogation? Do you consider an extension for all interviews to be realistic if we know, for example, that only 41% of the cases of a lawyer can be found in French-speaking Belgium? In how many percent of the first interviews were effective use of the right to an attorney? What is the percentage of cases where the right to an attorney is waived? As I have just mentioned, the Association of Investigation Courts states that the truth finding can sometimes be coached by the permanent presence of a lawyer. Do you share that opinion? You announced a working party. Who's gonna be in there? What will their final mission be? By when do you expect the recommendations? To my last question, you have actually already answered more or less with the plan you announced last week. What is the state of play with regard to this Salduz passage in the coalition agreement? When can we expect the announced evaluation? Will corrections be made? In what way will you try to control the costs? Mr Minister, that is a lot of questions. For a moment I have considered dividing it into different questions, but I thought it would be better to put it into one question. Measuring is known, so I think it is interesting to know all this for the further definition of our policy, for the plans and for the legislation that we may have to introduce.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u12	On the basis of Article 15 (1) of the Directive, Member States are required to bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with the Directive by 27 November 2016. The provision indeed applies to all Member States. I come to your questions 2, 3, 4, 11 and 12. Together with five other Member States, Belgium expressed its concern in 2011 that the Directive would impede the efficient conduct of criminal proceedings and that insufficient account was taken of the differences between legal systems, the guarantees of a fair trial and the impact on legal assistance. Belgium also expressed a reservation when adopting the general approach of the EU Council, but the Council adopted the Directive on 8 October. Belgium abstained in the vote. The text has been fundamentally amended in several respects. For example, the Directive requires Member States to take the necessary measures proactively to ensure that the person concerned has access to a lawyer and not to persons who have not been deprived of their freedom. This is very important for the new regime that will be provided for in our criminal proceedings. I would also like to remind you that the directive does not concern the system of subsidised legal aid, which is the subject of another proposal which is still under negotiation. For the implementation of this directive, a multidisciplinary working group has now been set up with representatives of the College of Attorneys General, the College of Headquarters, the Association of Investigators, the federal and local police members of my policy cell and of my administration. On 6 March, the bottlenecks were discussed for the first time. At a later stage, the concrete text proposals will also be examined by the actors in the field, such as the legal profession and the representatives of the prison system. With regard to the review announced in the coalition agreement, a new evaluation before the transposition of the directive seems difficult to achieve. There has already been the process review of the Criminal Policy Service carried out previously. Much more useful is an ex nunc process evaluation to guide and monitor the transposition measures, so that solutions can be quickly and accurately implemented in the event of problems. I will take the necessary steps when the legislative amendments in Parliament are approved. With regard to the cost of second-line legal assistance, I give you some figures. For the period from 1 January 2012 to 31 August 2012, the budget for second-line legal assistance was 75 262 767 euro, of which 1 018 499 euro went to Salduz performance, excluding telephone distance consultations. For the period from 1 September 2012 to 31 August 2013, the budget amounted to EUR 77 923 000, of which EUR 2 297 469 for Salduz performance, including distance consultations from 1 January 2013. For the period from 1 September 2013 to 31 August 2014, the foreseen budget for the whole of the second-line legal assistance was EUR 71 932 000. The value of the point has to be determined for this period. The application of the Salduz Act brought with it many different costs: infrastructure, assistance from interpreters, etc. As regards the cost of interrogation facilities, I would refer you to my colleague from the Interior. In order to give you an idea, I can tell you that in 2014 the municipalities and police areas received a donation of EUR 2 064 494 to be distributed among the 195 police zones as a contribution to Salduz's costs. The additional costs of transposing the Directive and extending access to a lawyer, inter alia to the following interviews, will depend on certain choices. Estimates have already been made, but it is impossible, for example, to know exactly the quota of interviews of persons in custody or the proportion of legal persons entitled to second-line legal assistance. This is also linked to other measures that I intend to take in criminal proceedings, including the reduction of pre-trial detention. In Flanders, a lawyer was immediately found for the first interview through the Salduzweb application in 93 % of the cases in 2014 and in 89 % of the cases in 2013. In French and German-speaking Belgium, this was 65 % in 2014 and 49 % in 2013. The application developed by the OVB indicates that a lawyer was found when a lawyer responds positively to a request for intervention. In 7 901 of the 27 957 French- and German-speaking first interviews in 2014, the defendant gave up the prior confidential consultation and assistance during the interview after confidential telephone consultation with his lawyer. Of the 20 572 Flemish first interviews there were 5 464. With regard to the comment made by the Association of Research Judges, I can understand the investigators. The presence of a lawyer in the interrogation, as well as the systematic emphasis on certain rights, including the right of silence, may lead to a suspect refusing to make a statement more quickly or making certain prejudiced statements about the facts. Confessions are more difficult to enforce. In any case, it requires us to reflect on the importance of the questioning in the warranty of evidence. It will inevitably increase the importance of technical evidence collection, DNA analysis, intercepted data or telecommunications and so on. We have to take that into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll get the numbers to look at them. I have noted above all that it does indeed have an impact on the increase in costs, and that about one-fourth of it renounces the presence of a lawyer in his interview. Actually, that's pretty much a lot. But I remember, above all, that there are a number of ways of avoiding this. We are looking for a way to find a solution to this, to the extent that it even encourages Parliament to remake procedures, and that is not bad in itself. Certain situations can sometimes lead to different legislation, with a different impact. We must never forget that Salduz was eventually someone in a legal system that was completely different from ours. As far as prisons are concerned, most of us are also very bad, some are slightly less. The problem is that this brings justice to a higher level, which means that we will have to commemorate our entire system for a situation there, which is not ours, with a lot of impact. I do not want to have said that this assistance cannot be important at the time of an initial hearing. I was present at the talks. Then it was said from the counter that they want to be more than just decoration. I understand that, too. But there is also the research and the way in which that needs to be addressed, and the impact that one can have on another. If the police have to bring someone in for questioning in the context of Salduz, then the combi must be taken back to the police station at some point. During the interrogation, these combinations are not on the road and are not used for prevention. It has a huge impact, not only on the judicial system, but also on the police force. I do not think this has been sufficiently understood in Europe. I look forward to your draft legislation on the matter, to the reform of your welfare system, but also of your criminal procedure, to see how we can somehow adapt a sleeve to it. In doing so, we must be able to maintain a balance between the right of defence to a practical operation within justice, so that it does not drown in all the formalities, requirements and necessities that are costly but not always equally effective. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u14	Debates of the European Parliament 2799 by Mr Van de Velde has been converted into a written question. Question No 2807 by Mr Clarinval is also transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u15	Mr Minister, pursuant to Article 2 (2) of the Royal Decree of 28 September 2003 establishing a leave prior to retirement (VVP) in favour of certain officials employed in the external services of the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions, one can, if one meets certain age conditions, enter the system of leave prior to retirement. The federal government agreement provides for a number of changes to the current regime. The conditions and modalities had not yet been established, so that applicants who are right to apply and who meet all the conditions will not receive an answer to their application until there is an insight into the modalities and possible changes to the rules. They shall not receive confirmation of the date on which the VVP can start. My question dates back to the presentation of your Justice Plan. In the meantime, I have read that you are proposing that the 58-year-old guards be allowed to leave. My question remains, of course. It cannot be the intention that people who rightly apply now should remain in uncertainty for a long time before they know where they stand. That's why I'd like an update, Mr. Secretary? Will they have to wait until the regulation you propose in your Justice Plan has effectively passed the full procedure in a draft law? Will they have to wait until then before they are assured, or will they have a confirmation earlier on the basis of the current system? What is the timing within which any new regulation will last?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u16	Mrs Pas, I have contacted the Minister for Pensions to see what guarantees I can give to the staff of the penitentiary institutions concerned. The Minister has given me the guarantee that as long as the pension reform has not been implemented, the Royal Decree of 28 September 2003 can be applied in accordance with the current provisions. However, he also asked me to be careful when it comes to approving applications for leave prior to retirement, for the future. For this reason, I have decided, in the first instance, to approve only the applications for leave prior to retirement, for leave starting on 1 July 2015 at the latest. As soon as it is clear what the transitional measures will be for early retirement, I will ask my administration to prepare a draft of KB in line with these measures, and I will take the initiative to start negotiations with the trade unions. As far as timing is concerned, it is my intention to settle for this one that the Minister of Pensions puts forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hope that there will be clarity soon, including on the transitional measures. I understand that this is not an easy consultation. In the meantime, I have also read that the police unions, in favour of their own file, are already threatening to take tough action if arrangements are already being made in other areas such as those for the guards. I understand that all this is connected, but I urge that justified applicants should not be left in uncertainty for long and that they should be confirmed as soon as possible, if justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u18	Mr President, Minister, at the end of the previous parliamentary term, a draft law was soon adopted, and I do not think we have approved it, but the majority, in any case, is criminalising sexist behaviour in public space. The law, which has now entered into force, provides that any gesture or act whereby a person is severely and openly disrespected for the sake of his or her sex, may lead to an appearance before the court, a prison sentence of one month to one year and/or a fine of 50 to 1 000 euro. After a complaint to the police and investigation by the police, sexism can thus lead to a verdict before the criminal court. That is the situation today. There has been a lot to do about this this week on Twitter, WeOverdramenDon't. A discussion was also held in the committee on this subject. It has not become a complaint crime and this sexism law is currently subject to an appeal to the Constitutional Court for destruction. The law is now in force for more than six months and I would have liked to know how many complaints against sexism have already been filed with the police on the basis of this legislation. How many complaints were investigated or dismissed? A symbolic discussion was held in the Chamber about this symbol law with a vague description of crime. How many investigations were brought before the criminal court by the prosecutor? What punishments were pronounced? Was there actually a prison sentence for such facts? I would therefore like to know the number of convictions and judgments if you have those figures. How do you evaluate this law yourself, taking into account the figures? Are you aware of judgments of the Constitutional Court? If so, will you take initiatives to respond to any comments made by the Constitutional Court? The Institute for Equality between Women and Men, established in 2002, is also competent to provide information or receive complaints under this law. The Institute deals with questions free of charge and in complete confidentiality. How many complaints has the Institute already received under this sexism law? What are the consequences of this? As a woman, like many women's organizations, I have problems with this law because it is patronizing. I don't think it's up to the prosecution to decide what's humiliating or not humiliating for me. I am approaching a certain age, Minister, and I can tell you that there is a time when a woman finds it annoying when she is being flogged, but I can also tell you that there will be a time when she gets older, that she is pleased. The sexism law had to come and go. The description of the crime remains very vague and when I asked the Minister to give examples, it proved impossible to do so. You may read the report. So I'm very curious about what the sexism law has already meant in practice, with all due respect to the Twitterers under WeOverdramenDon't. I have no doubt that sexism will occur.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u19	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, the law of 22 May 2014 on combating sexism in public space has only been in force since the beginning of August of last year. It is therefore difficult to obtain statistically reliable data only after six months. By application dated 20 January 2015, the Constitutional Court brought an action for the annulment of Articles 2 and 3 of the Law. The case is currently registered under number 6145. It is therefore too early to expect a ruling on this. With regard to the figures you requested concerning the number of criminal complaints, prosecutions and convictions, I regret to inform you that these were not communicated by the statistical analysts of the College of Attorneys General in the context of this parliamentary question. This is not feasible in terms of workload. As I said, it seems appropriate to evaluate its application and effectiveness at a later date and after the Constitutional Court has ruled on the law. As regards your question on the number of information questions or complaints relating to breaches of the sexism law at the Institute for Equality between Women and Men, the following. In 2014, there were 58 reports related to sexism. Already before the entry into force of the Act on 3 August 2014, the Institute received 24 notifications, then another 34. However, the Institute stresses that it is not the only body where victims of sexism can use their reports. Consequently, the figures do not give a realistic overall picture of the true extent of the problem. For more detailed information, I would like to refer you to Mr Sleurs, who, as Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, is responsible for the Institute for Equality between Women and Men.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u20	Minister, I can certainly exercise some patience to get the exact figures, and I fully understand the workload. I certainly hope that someday the time will come when it will be enough to press a computer key to know all that data without too much workload. I really hope that time will come someday. I will keep to this question and, if necessary, I will also question Secretary of State Mr Sleurs. I take note of your answer, but I am intrigued by this and I look forward to seeing what this will give in the future. For serious cases, it is important to intervene. I will wait and thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u21	Debates of the European Parliament 3138 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u22	Minister, I asked you a question about the problem not so long ago. Mr Claus, director of Dendermonde's prison, who is really thinking about alternative forms of detention, has planned to replace larger prisons with nine hundred small home prisons. He calls them the houses. According to him, there will be no overpopulation and prisoners will be given better living environment and individual guidance, which will make them much better prepared for their return to society, which is less happening in larger prisons. His intention is very commending. I can even follow him to some extent, bearing in mind the idea of reintegration. We are still waiting for the first smaller detention house. The intention would be to give place in that house to 16 prisoners serving a maximum sentence of three years. About eight inmates would be at the end of his sentence. That's the plan. The answer to the question of whether public aid is earmarked for this purpose is crucial. Afterwards the project still needs permission from a municipality and the initiators have to find a house. The project is not mentioned in the coalition agreement. Only an evaluation and a possible modification of the master plan No. 3. When I questioned you about the dossier in December 2014, you replied that you could not give your opinion and any support. After all, you stated that on 7 January 2015 you would have a conversation with the prison director about the project. The date of 7 January 2015 has now passed. I know that it has been busy and that you have done a lot of other work. In the meantime, have you been able to hold that meeting with the warden? What was the result? What are your views on the project or on another small-scale project? I know that this is not a very simple budget, not even in the case of the Justice Department. Do you, however, intend to support the project? Do you have a budget to give that support? If so, do you have a view of the time limit against when the first detention house could arrive? How can we evaluate this? For a real evaluation it will be far too early. I am particularly curious about the outcome of your conversation with the prison director on 7 January 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u23	Mrs De Wit, it is clear that 7 January is over and that I have had the meeting with Mr Claus. I listened carefully to his idea and proposal. Other organisations with similar initiatives have also explained their projects, including the so-called transition houses. Such projects can certainly inspire. However, I cannot anticipate the facts. In my Justice Plan, I announced the update of the Master Plan by next summer, Master Plan 3. Initiatives are being taken in this context. I mention in border number 303 a number of smaller projects, such as those in Leuven or Hoogstraten, but they are only exemplary. In doing so, I have been careful to show that I am in favour of such projects. In the summer we come with the master plan 3. I don't want to make a preliminary deduction on that. Only afterwards will I be able to communicate details of possible projects. In any case, the Justice Plan gives an important impetus to projects that take into account certain principles such as differentiation, small or otherwise secure forms of detention and attention to interned persons.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u24	Mr. Secretary, I'll wait for your master plan, that's obvious. I remember, in particular, that you are fond of the project, which we have already been able to draw from your Justice Plan. If we really want to prepare for parole and reintegration, the return to society, then we must also dare to think about alternatives. I wonder whether it will be feasible and whether you will find municipalities that would like to welcome such projects. It will be a difficult exercise, but it is certainly worth looking at and investigating, given that there is more attention to differentiation and better preparation for the return to society.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u25	Minister, during the previous legislature, we held a debate in committee on the possibility of extraditing the transport of prisoners to private firms. I also asked questions about this because at that time the companies responsible for security had indicated that they were almost eager to take over certain tasks of the police and the judiciary. Specifically for the Justice Department, they were talking about transporting prisoners and protecting courthouses in order to relieve the police. I am not telling you a secret when I say that the professional association of security firms is particularly high on the list of prisons. That is a task that is still being carried out by the Security Corps of the FPS Justice Department. The BVBO says they can arrange that much cheaper. They refer to the Netherlands and Great Britain. In those countries, security firms sometimes even take over the duties of penitentiary officers, all in the context of austerity. I'm thinking about Britain. There, more and more tasks are being outsourced to the private security companies. I don't have to tell you that police feces are a topical issue. Moreover, these police feces by the use of certain security firms are included in the current government agreement. In the previous legislature, Mrs Turtelboom has always said that the use of private security firms was not on the agenda. However, the Security Corps needed to be expanded so that it could take on additional tasks. For the rest, she would not go into that. She did say that this would be studied. She announced a study in consultation with Justice and the police, a study that had not yet been included in the budget. You have already said something about it in the context of the discussion of the Justice Plan, but it may be interesting to state your position once again clearly on the offer made by the professional association of security firms, specifically on judicial matters. Would this offer effectively relieve police and justice? Will you investigate it further, especially in the light of the passage in the coalition agreement? The regulation of private safety company debt securities would be evaluated. Is that what happened in the meantime? What was the result of that? What extension did the Security Corps have following Mrs Turtelboom's announcement? What additional duties has the Security Corps had since then? We have heard other things about this in the media. Was the study announced then carried out? What is the result of that? What was the price? That was not provided for at the time. Very important, also within the framework of the Justice Plan, is to know the total price of the prisoner transport for Justice. So we can investigate whether it is interesting to spend this on the private sector. What could be the estimated price of the transport if this is outsourced to a private company? Finally, Minister, something more general. Do you consider it possible to privatise other judicial powers, except for the transport of prisoners and the surveillance of courthouses?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u26	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, neither I nor my administration are aware of the study you have mentioned. The task of transporting prisoners is currently being carried out jointly by the police and the Justice Department. The Security Corps of Justice carries out the shipments, in support of the police, local or federal. Since all these different actors are involved in the transport of prisoners, I cannot give you a correct cost because they have their share in this. The total budget of the Security Corps is 20 million euros, but this budget includes all the missions of the Security Corps. In addition to the transport of prisoners, the Security Corps is also responsible for the security of the Justice Palace. However, a breakdown per sub-contract is not available. I can only speak here about the Security Corps. For the police, I would like to refer you to my colleague from the Interior. If the Security Corps stopped carrying out the transport, it would carry out other tasks, as the law allows. In addition, a public contract should be launched for the appointment of an external firm. This additional budgetary cost is reflected in the operating resources, and that is precisely where public services are required to make the greatest savings. In the past, however, there was a limited expansion of the Security Corps. Within the framework of the opening of the new prisons, 15 new staff were added in Marche, Beveren and Leuze to carry out the tasks already planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u27	Mr President, Minister, I had a clear suspicion that this study does not exist. I think we should take a look at that piste. There must be a balance between what makes sense and what doesn't. We may also have to look over the wall because I believe that some countries which have taken privatisation have returned to their steps. Before making choices, I think it is very interesting to know what the costs and possible financial benefits are. Minister, what always strikes me is how difficult it is to find out the cost of something. Everything comes from a big pot and nobody keeps track of what's spent. Especially in times of budgetary scarcity, it is also true for a normal family to keep track of the cost of everything so that one can see what is possible and to which priority must be given. It reminds me again and again how difficult it is for the Justice Department to get those figures and find out how much money goes where. I hope that this can also be improved because I also notice this in the municipality. If we do not know what we are spending our money on, we will be bankrupt in no time. This is a very important exercise in order to be able to conduct a correct policy. I hope this will be put right. As far as the Security Corps and possible privatisation are concerned, we are still waiting. I understand that we should not wait for that study.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u28	Minister, in Vilvoorde, a police judge refused to sentence because the building was not accessible to the disabled accused. In his motivation, the police judge stated: "A highly outdated and stale building that is not accessible to people with disabilities, exudes an outdated and inferior justice system and gives the impression that the government has little interest and resources for the legal concerns of the seeker." The inaccessibility in Vilvoorde has been indicted several times. Consequently, there would be plans to move the peace court and the police court. Is it true, Minister, that there is talk of a possible move from the police court and the peace court? What are the plans? What timing is planned for the potential move? Are there any other court buildings poorly accessible in the Brussels arrondissement? What solutions are being developed for this? When can we expect a result? Is that what you're taking with you in your plans?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u29	I can confirm that the police court in Vilvoorde is not housed as it should be. This also applies to the peace process. It was therefore decided to provide new housing. The Buildings Executive therefore carried out a prospecting exercise last year and drew up a proposal for hiring. This would soon be submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval. After approval by the Council of Ministers, it will take three months to complete the installation work. For further details, I must refer you to my colleague, responsible for the Directorate of the Buildings. I assume that the problem will be resolved very soon. Justice currently has a large number of buildings, the judicial order of which is over 300. They are often old buildings where accessibility can be a problem. However, interventions to make these buildings accessible are not always obvious, for example for technical reasons or because the building in question is classified. The whole situation of the building park is currently being examined, as I have also announced in the plan, in order to achieve rationalisation and better accessible buildings in the broad sense of the word. In general, however, I can tell you that access to the courthouses for wheelchair users is the responsibility of the Government of the Buildings.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u30	Minister, we have indeed heard that there will be a master plan for the buildings. I am pleased that a solution will be found in the near future for the peace court and the police court of Vilvoorde. I hope that accessibility for disabled people will also be taken into account. That's important.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u31	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Poncelet's 2985 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Becq's 3000 is converted into a written question and the combined questions. 3002 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh and 3139 by Mrs Van Cauter. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Degroote's 3009 is also converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Matz's 3031 is withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Cauter's 3061 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u32	Minister, during the previous legislature, the N-VA, who was then in the opposition, of course asked a lot of questions, but it strikes me that even now that we are always asking questions. Apparently, the opposition isn't interested. All the way to the side and along with my apologies for taking so much time. It's my penultimate question, though, for today. Minister, the government recently announced 12 measures against terrorism and radicalisation. One of the twelve measures is to address radicalisation in prisons, to better detect radicalised detainees and to encourage radicalisation. The training of prison staff and the use of Islam consultants are also central to this. On 14 March you gave an interview on this subject, in which you announced the concrete implementation of the measures. The Bruges and Ittre prisons have been selected to have a separate department for extremely radicalised individuals. I have a few questions about that. Why choose the prisons of Bruges and Ittre? What adjustments must be made in these prisons before starting the separate departments? Is there a cost involved? How am I supposed to imagine such a separate department? What's this gonna look like? What criteria will prisoners have to meet in order to be accommodated in these separate departments? What criteria will they have to meet in order to be dismissed in such departments? Who's gonna judge that in the end? Is there an additional danger of networking and overheating? One of the comments made is that radical prisoners could rush each other precisely because all risk profiles are put together. How many prisoners would be eligible to be accommodated in the sections? How much space will there be? Is there enough room or is there room left? How many prison staff will receive specific training to work with these risk profiles? Is there a budget for this? If so, what budget? How many prison staff will be added to this? Is there a budget for this? What measures do you take in the light of the use of Islam consultants? Is there a budget for this too?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u33	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, the choice for Bruges and Ittre is mainly motivated by the fact that a large number of investment works have already been carried out in these prisons which, although not yet finalised, are necessary for the start-up of the specialised sections. This choice therefore requires the least investment and should enable us to have operational units already in the course of December 2015. The target group for these specialised departments is prisoners who pose a serious risk of radicalisation. Their transfer should enable us to prevent recruitment and dissemination of ideas, as well as to prevent the entanglement between radical networks and classic criminal organisations. The screening will have to be done by trained staff of the central psychosocial service, including on the basis of information from the intelligence and security services and from the local prison administration. Instruments will be made available to enable such specific risk assessment by the psychosocial service. I am very aware of the risk of networking if certain risk profiles are put together. For this reason, a two-track policy was also adopted, whereby, in the first place, radicalised detainees will be integrated to maximum extent into ordinary departments, in so far as it is considered that the radicalisation process can be controlled. Only when this is not possible will a referral be made to a specialised section. In order to reduce the disadvantages of concentration, efforts will be made to establish a regime and to provide guidance that will shift the balance sheet of this project towards disengagement, even deradicalisation. The added value of the section will also be to be able to control radicalisation processes in the other sections. Moreover, networking outside this department is not excluded at all. It is therefore a choice between the risk of networking and inciting in a small, closed entity or of networking and inciting in the larger whole of a whole prison. The maximum occupancy is set at 16 inmates in Bruges and 26 in Ittre. How many prisoners are eligible is hard to estimate. It is also intended that once the radicalisation process of the detainees in the specialised departments is re-managed, they will be re-transferred to regular prisons. In the long term, it is envisaged that both the staff working in the specialised sections and the other staff will have received at least basic training around the phenomenon of radicalisation. Of course, staff working in the specialised sections will receive specific additional training. This applies not only to monitoring staff but also, in particular, to the staff of the psychosocial service. Current staff resources are insufficient to provide appropriate guidance, so recruitment will be necessary. The exact number of staff to be recruited depends on the resources that will be released in budgetary control. The action plan provides for the completion of the framework of Islam consultants, as well as the increase in their framework from 18 to 27 full-time equivalents. It is our aim to focus above all on the recruitment of well-educated Islam consultants. The intention is to involve the prison system in the selection of new Islam consultants, so that the specific competences needed to function in a penitentiary context can also be tested. The DG EPI will also offer basic training and allow Islam consultants to participate in the specific training on radicalisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u34	Mr Minister, who will judge exactly the level of radicalisation and how? That is not quite clear to me. For the rest, I am pleased with the answers I have received.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u35	I shall read again the sentence: "The instruments will be made available to enable such a specific risk assessment by the psychosocial service." At that time, in consultation with the prison director, it will be decided whether a particular person, failing that risk assessment, will be transferred to a specific department.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u36	Thank you. I note that there is therefore also a need for an evaluation tool, as is the case with criminality. For lawyers, that's something new.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u37	Mr Minister, the dust surrounding Mr Frank Van Den Bleeken has been happy to lie down over the past period. His situation has taken hold of a lot of people. Nevertheless, it remains extremely important to approach the various aspects of Mr Van Den Bleeken's poignant situation with caution and serenity. Serenity and caution are absolutely necessary when we talk about life and death. I was therefore surprised when I heard Dr. Marc Cosyns' statements on Dutch television. In the "Buitenhof" programme of 1 February last, Dr Cosyns publicly stated that, as a form of opposition to the current legal regime of euthanasia in our country, he waived his legal obligation to declare, the formal requirements and modalities of which are laid down in Articles 5, 7 and 8 of the 2002 euthanasia law. In addition, Mr Cosyns argued that he is acting within Belgian patient legislation, which allows him to undertake death support in the case of persons who are incurably ill. Then, of course, it is about palliative care. Mr Secretary, in view of the statements made by Dr Cosyns, I would like to ask you the following questions. What legal and/or criminal consequences could Mr Cosyns' statements have in that, as a form of opposition to existing Belgian legislation, he renounces his statutory obligation to declare, as written down in listed articles? What measures are you considering following Dr. Cosyns' statements?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u38	Mrs Van Hoof, the law of 28 May 2002 on euthanasia determines the conditions under which a doctor applying euthanasia does not commit a crime. That's what Article 3 says. In the sense of that law, euthanasia is intentional life-ending action by a person other than the person concerned, at his request. It's in Article 2 of the law. You will understand that in principle it is not for me as Minister of Justice to express my opinion on the desirability of prosecution in individual cases. That power belongs only to the prosecution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your concise answer. You say it yourself, euthanasia is an exception to criminal law. The intention is, of course, to make euthanasia a patient's right. That's why euthanasia is being removed from criminal law. That is the same as saying that a patient who is entitled to a certain therapy is also entitled to euthanasia, regardless of the doctor's will. I believe that we must avoid this situation and proceed with caution. Reporting is necessary in order to be able to follow up and to monitor the application of euthanasia. There are many conditions attached to euthanasia, which you have not listed. For example, there must be an opinion from a second doctor, and this must also be checked by the monitoring and evaluation committee. It is, of course, impossible to check and evaluate if there is no declaration. In this way we can never take criminal action, which has never happened because of euthanasia. There's not a single case known at the parquet. If all doctors react this way, there can never be a check-up or an evaluation. It can't be the intention to make euthanasia a patient's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u40	Mr President, Minister, in principle I do not like to ask questions about individual dossiers. Nevertheless, allow me to outline two dossiers in order to raise the issue in question. Both dossiers take place in the Pajottenland, which is the region I myself live in and have a close connection with. At the end of February 2015, especially on Thursday 26 February 2016, the police arrested two people suspected of breaking into the municipality of Tollembek after a manhunt. The first one could be arrested quickly. His companion took off, but was tracked down by the use of a police helicopter. Finally, four suspects are arrested and passed on to the investigating judge in Brussels by the court of Halle-Vilvoorde. That was some good work from the police. There is no doubt about that. However, the sequel of the story is guessed. According to the media, the French-speaking Brussels investigating judge has re-released suspects illegally staying in the country without imposing any conditions on them. They had to stand trial before a French-speaking investigating judge because they had opted for justice in French. The deployment of a police helicopter points out that the police spared no effort to carry out their work in the best possible way. If then a release is followed without conditions, I can imagine that this is accompanied by enormous frustrations for the police. When the Brussels parquet was divided into a section of Brussels and a section of Halle-Vilvoorde, the latter set the burglary scourge in the Brussels region as a priority policy objective. However, as long as Brussels' French-speaking investigators think otherwise, the reform of the judicial district of Brussels with its own Flemish parquet for Halle-Vilvoorde will not yield anything. Mr Minister, my questions are as follows. First of all, is that message true? Was it effective about illegals? Do they effectively opt for justice in French? So they ended up in front of a French-speaking investigating judge? Secondly, why is there no rapid legal procedure in such cases? We had not, of course, heard of a plan in which you put that idea first at the time when I asked my question. My second example is about a burglary in the neighborhood and my own municipality of Lennik. Here, too, the police did a good job. The defendant was apprehended and arraigned before the investigating judge in Brussels. The Dutch investigating judge confirmed the arrest which led the defendant to go to jail for a month. This approach is very different from that of the first investigating judge. Looks like there's no uniform criminal policy. Mr Minister, I have a few questions for you: will you intervene and instruct the criminal justice policy that priority should be given to such crimes and that they should be treated in a uniform manner within the same arrondissement, which, unfortunately, is still the case? Furthermore, if illegal persons are released, will the competent Secretary of State Theo Francken and his services responsible for the expulsion policy be informed? That is also a point in your plan and you seem to make it a priority. Finally, are the costs incurred, e.g. for the deployment of police helicopters, to be recovered from the defendant in the course of the trial?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u41	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, without going into details of judicial investigations, I can answer your questions as follows. Firstly, the coverage is only partially correct. The three persons suspected of attempted theft with forced entry were not illegal. One lived in Galmaarden, a second in Schaerbeek and the third in Jette. All suspects chose the French language or expressed themselves in French for their statements. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 21 of the language legislation, the language of the procedure shall be determined in the case of several suspects by the language in which the persons concerned make their declaration. The court of Halle-Vilvoorde, therefore, had to seek the intervention of an investigating judge from the French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels in order to apprehend the persons concerned through the French-speaking magistrates. Secondly, there was no application of the expeditious procedure in the aforementioned file because further investigations had to be carried out into other thefts and there was a link with a fourth suspect that was the subject of another criminal investigation. If further investigations occur and there is, for example, a risk of collusion, the prosecutor is seeking a judicial investigation with a view to delivering an arrest order. Since the fight against thefts in homes is a priority objective of the Halle-Vilvoorde District Court, a judicial investigation is requested in most cases of theft by means of forced entry, ascension or false key in homes. The investigation will then fall into the hands of a investigating judge, who is independent in his decisions, including whether or not to deliver an arrest order. In addition to the above-mentioned policy on thefts in immovable property, the King's Attorney has issued a letter of around-the-clock prosecution of suspects before the correctional court by means of an immediate summons to the police commissioner. However, if additional research is necessary, such a procedure is not appropriate. Thirdly, the King's Attorney of Halle-Vilvoorde, together with the police chiefs of the police in Halle-Vilvoorde, will issue a letter in the course of the next few days on how to deal with the investigation and prosecution of thefts in homes, in an effort to achieve even more uniformity. The last draft was discussed at Halle-Vilvoorde's arrondissement meeting on 19 March. The letter will express the consultation and policy of the public prosecutor. Of course, the investigators will in all independence decide whether or not this policy should address a claim for the delivery of an arrest order. If an illegal suspect is released on the territory, the Foreign Affairs Service will indeed be informed of this. Only the costs eligible as court costs can be recovered from the convicted party. The costs of using a helicopter are not charged, as they are operating costs of the federal police.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I can only continue to press for this issue to continue to be addressed. Because of her location, my area is really plagued by burglaries. You can also probably understand that it is quite difficult in public opinion to use all means of burglary, including helicopters and the like, while the potential perpetrators are free again in the evening. I can only insist that this is a priority. It is not the case here, but if illegal immigrants are involved, there must also be a proper exchange of information with Secretary of State Theo Francken, so that appropriate measures can be taken on that side.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u43	Minister, as a result of the reform of the tax procedure, in 1999 a tax specialization was chosen in the courts of first instance by giving only one court in each county capital jurisdiction. In an answer to a question for explanation by popular representative Jos Lantmeeters at the General Policy, Finance and Budget Committee of 10 March 2015 in the Flemish Parliament, Minister Turtelboom replied that the central collection of inheritance and registration rights by the Flemish Tax Administration in Aalst since 1 January 2015 in dispute only the court of first instance of Ghent and no longer the tax courts of each provincial capital. Every time VLABEL takes over a department of the FPS Finance with regard to regional taxes, this has a direct impact on the workload of the different tax courts of first instance in Flanders. In Bruges, Antwerp, Hasselt and Leuven they get less work and in Ghent the workload is increasing. Moreover, taxpayers from all corners of Flanders must go to Ghent to argue their case. I understand that a more efficient organisation of the Flemish tax administration is being pursued, but this does not seem to me to contribute to an accessible Justice. Do you share our view, Minister, that the transfer of powers to the Länder should not lead to a shift in the workload between the various territorially competent courts which are already quite specialised in this area? Is it desirable that only the court of first instance in the court of appeal of Ghent should rule on tax disputes concerning Flemish taxes? Is it not the task of the Court of Cassation to ensure the unity of justice? Is an amendment to Article 632 of the Civil Code an exclusive federal competence or, in your view, is this one of the implicit powers of the Regions? If it is an exclusive federal competence, are you prepared to initiate consultations with the Flemish Region in order to bring about an early amendment of the Code of Justice, so that, in the event of a dispute against Flemish taxes, the five Flemish tax courts of each provincial capital remain effectively competent?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u44	Mrs. Van Vaerenbergh, you asked five questions, didn't you? I only have two here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u45	I suggest that you answer those two questions in advance. I'll get you the other one so you can email your answer later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u46	The law of 23 March 1999 on the judicial establishment in tax matters replaced Article 632 of the Code of the Court of Justice, which also leaves your question within the competence of the Minister of Finance. The parliamentary work of the Law of 23 March 1999 is clear on the possibility of amending Article 632 of the Court's Code. Those tax disputes are not, on this basis, entrusted to all judges who also give judgment at first instance in civil matters under the Civil Code, but are provided for a thorough centralisation of tax disputes, more specifically in the five courts of first instance sitting at the seat of the appeal court. It is obvious to deal with tax disputes by specialised chambers. In addition, following an amendment to optimise accessibility and access to this new jurisdiction, a second line was added stating that the King may designate other judges in the jurisdiction of the appeal court. This was done by Royal Decree of 25 March 1999 implementing Article 7 of the Law of 23 March 1999 on the judicial establishment in tax matters, which was amended by Royal Decree of 26 March 2014 amending several regulatory provisions to bring it into line with the reform of the judicial districts. Everything was thus done to combine a specialization of judges in some courts with as easy access to the court as possible. A change determining the place of residence of the person concerned for the purpose of designating the relevant resort is therefore worth examining, but in consultation with the Minister for Finance and the Regions. In reply to your second question concerning the rules on the division of powers between the federal government and the Länder, I can inform you that the federal government is competent for the organisation of the courts, including their territorial jurisdiction, although without prejudice to the possible possibility for the regions to invoke their implicit powers, in so far as they demonstrate that the conditions are fulfilled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u47	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I'm glad you're looking into this. We have specialised courts. We are also pleased with this specialization, but of course it does not have to be so specialized that there would only be a court of law in all Flanders. I look forward to the results of your investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u48	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Degroote's 3009 has been converted into a written question. Question No 3172 by Mrs Onkelinx is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u49	Minister, we heard from several quarters last week that a minor had to spend a night in a local police cell because she could no longer stay in the child and youth psychiatry of an Antwerp hospital. She was finally taken by ambulance to the Palace of Justice in Antwerp. In the meantime, the Antwerp parquet has started an investigation against the treating and/or responsible doctors. According to the 1965 Youth Act, children who have not committed crimes must always be taken care of. However, since the article in question is suspended several times, the State is actually liable. Minors must therefore be protected at all times, wherever they reside. Apart from this dossier, it goes without saying that it is inadmissible and punishable by criminal law for a professional aid worker or a citizen to be guilty of failure to act. Do you consider it appropriate to evaluate whether an increase in the penalty rate can be introduced by professional aid workers in the event of a criminal default? Have measures been taken to avoid such situations in the future? If so, which one? Have any complaints against the State already been lodged with any authority or with the International Committee on the Rights of the Child in connection with the case mentioned? If so, how many cases are involved? Have they already led to a sentence from the State?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u50	Mrs Uyttersprot, as you rightly point out, it is not appropriate to anticipate the outcome of the judicial inquiry into the facts. I will not comment on this. With regard to the opportunity to investigate a possible increase in criminal penalties in the event of negligence by professional aid workers, I am also very reluctant. A single case which was the subject of a judicial investigation should not be generalised. In addition, it is important to ask whether a penalty increase will have any effect. I dare to question the general's preventive effect on the basis of the increased penalty. Such reflection could possibly be included in the future reflection on the punitive provisions and measures of punishment, including the amalgamation to aggravating circumstances of our substantive criminal law. The prima facie answer to the questions put by the College of Attorneys General indicates that the College cannot give an opinion on such questions in such a short period of time and that such an opinion is also considered appropriate if such a legislative initiative is actually envisaged. As far as the measures are concerned, I would like to refer to the Ministers of the Communities responsible for Welfare and Aid. With regard to complaints against the State in these cases, it is not possible to obtain more information on these matters within the scope of this oral question. If you convert your question into a written question, my services may investigate them further.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. My question may not have come across as it should. It is certainly not the intention to fish aid workers and it was certainly not the intention to make a plea in that sense. It may be the subject of a reflection when the reform of the penal law comes on the agenda. However, in Article 422a, the helping skills that should actually be in each of us, solidarity and awareness were transformed into a legal obligation. In this context, the penalty for a professional aid worker is the same as for an ordinary citizen, although we are allowed to take a rather social reflex from professional aid workers. My approach concerned rather the fact that absenteeism is a passive term. If it becomes active failure, for example a doctor who deliberately fails to help a patient, then we should consider what could change in that area in the future. For the rest, I will turn my question into a written question in order to obtain the figures on convictions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u52	Mr Minister, on 7 December 2014, the penitentiary officials in Ittre spontaneously laid down the work. The strike lasted until December 17th. During that strike work was done with the night regime. Family or lawyer visits were therefore suspended, and a court hearing was also postponed. 16 prisoners went to the Nivelles Court against this. This court sentenced the Belgian State to a fine of EUR 1 000 per prisoner per day when the normal regime was not respected, because the prisoners could not be treated as prescribed by the European Court of Human Rights. The Belgian State has registered third parties' actions, but that has just been rejected. The previous verdict has therefore been confirmed. This may be a precedent. Moreover, it is not the first time that an ordinary judge has interfered with the execution of the sentence. This shows, however, that the rapid implementation of the guaranteed minimum service is important. Yesterday I mentioned this in the discussions, and you actually answered some of my questions at the time, but I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you give me more information on this verdict? Is it the confirmation of previous case law, or is it a precedent? What is the amount that the Belgian State will have to pay? Is there a list of the amounts that had to be paid in the past for similar reasons? In the meantime, what is the figure? This is an edition that can be avoided, isn't it? Finally, there is the question you answered yesterday. What is the state of play regarding the government agreement's intention to introduce a guaranteed minimum service in prisons? Will this verdict speed up its execution? Yesterday you replied that you want to carry out the evaluation of Protocol 351 soon, but I do not think it would be wrong to repeat it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u53	Mrs De Wit, as a result of social actions in the Ittre prison at the beginning of December last year, 16 inmates filed a unilateral petition against the Belgian State with the main demand that the normal regime be restarted in prison. On 12 December, the court of first instance in Nivelles upheld the detainees and sentenced the Belgian State to re-introducing the normal regime in Ittre prison on penalty of a penalty per inmate of EUR 1 000 per day of delay. I opposed this decision but the court of first instance in Nijvel did not follow the Belgian State's position and confirmed the first decision. Apart from individual cases with specific problems, it is the first time that the Belgian State has been so broad and generally condemned to restart a normal detention regime during a strike. I will therefore appeal against this decision. As far as your second question is concerned, I have set up a separate working group within Sectoral Committee III Justice, with the special task of reviewing Protocol 351, of discussing the provision of services. This working group is progressing steadily and under the guidance of a social mediator for the public sector with regard to the evaluation of Protocol 351. The purpose of this Protocol is to strengthen social dialogue and to control conflicts within the prison system. At the moment, we are in the final straight line in this evaluation. The aim is to come up with proposals for adaptations to the protocol which can help ensure that a guaranteed service can be provided in prison during strikes. This judgment did not affect the work of the working party. After all, it is necessary to conduct this discussion in a serene atmosphere in order to reach a acceptable and workable agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It is absolutely essential to avoid such convictions in the future. That's money we can use better elsewhere, and Justice needs it badly. It's a shame it has to go there. If we can solve this by introducing the guaranteed service, we will save another bite.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u55	Debates of the European Parliament 3196 by Mrs Vanheste has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u56	Minister, many of us have already received a phone call to use a puzzle book on trial. You agree to the oral procedure, after which the first puzzle will be sent. You only have to pay a shipping cost of 4.95 euros or another amount. Next month you will receive another puzzle. Then it's already another amount that wasn't mentioned on the phone. You are then told that the phone call was recorded and that this can be used against you. In the conversation people have had you answer yes a number of times, so they argue that you have committed yourself to a year's contract. This is a forced purchase and a void sale as such. Similar abuses have occurred in the business world a while ago. There were some crooked business guides on the Internet. Several economic operators and associations with legal personality are then registered by firms with the request to modify and send back data. As a result, they also unwittingly conclude a contract. You may be aware of these abuses, hence my questions. Do you have any idea of the number of judicial investigations currently under way against such malicious practices concerning puzzle books and business directories or other? Have judgments been known or pronounced against such publishers? If so, what punishment was imposed for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u57	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, the practices to which you refer are, of course, reprehensible and cause human suffering, but this is precisely an example of a problem which raises the question of whether Justice is the most appropriate partner to control them or whether it should not be better dealt with in administrative and/or civil law and with the necessary prevention campaigns and administrative sanctions. The most serious facts should, in my view, be eligible for criminal prosecution if the Economic Inspectorate reports them and sends them to the Public Prosecutor's Office. Specifically in relation to your questions about figures, I can tell you the following. Neither the statistical analysts of the College of Attorneys General regarding prosecutions by the Public Prosecutor's Office nor the Criminal Policy Department of the FPS Justice as regards the number of convictions can give me an answer to the figures you requested. In the absence of a detailed code in the nomenclature, this would require an individual and manual analysis of all scams files per district. This is, of course, not justified in terms of workload. The classification of crime statistics does not allow a specific search to distinguish the cases of attempted fraud or scams by improper use of distance selling, in this case for subscriptions of puzzle books, from the other cases of scams or criminal attempts to do so. However, I can refer you to the information provided by the FPS Economic Affairs on its website to potential victims and for which the Economic Inspectorate may, if necessary, sanction administrative sanctions. For more information on this matter, please refer to the specific web page or to my esteemed colleague responsible for Economy, Mr Kris Peeters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u58	Mr President, Minister, I have been working at Test-Achats for a while and complaints were daily. The website to which you refer is indeed indicative, but I fear that these people often do not find their way to such websites, because the people who are susceptible to such practices are not always the most educated or do not have the reflex to reply against them. Perhaps it is possible to consider what other possibilities for prevention or which prevention campaigns might be appropriate. I will also submit the question in writing if any figures are available. I can imagine that this is indeed not in the nomenclature and that it is indeed not intended that every court should start looking it up in its paper. We are looking at what we can do about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u59	I make a small correction: Question No 3196 by Mrs Vanheste is not postponed but is transformed into a written question. Joined Questions No 3247 by Mrs Carina Van Cauter and No 3269 by Mrs Kristien Van Vaerenbergh are postponed. Question No 3313 by Georges Gilkinet is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u60	Mr President, Minister, with the establishment of the Family and Youth Court, the Belgian judicial organisation has been changed, in particular the hearing of the minor before the judge. At present, the juvenile's hearing is under the jurisdiction of the Youth Chamber, a division of the Family and Youth Court. Protectional disputes relating to minors at risk for whom the use of coercion is necessary, as well as minors who have committed an offence or minors whose parents have been deprived of their authority, are subject to protection. From now on, a distinction is made according to whether the minor is under 12 years of age or 12 years of age or older. Where the minor is under 12 years of age, he or she may be heard, in matters affecting him or her, in the opinion of the judge, at his or her own request, either at the request of the parties, the public prosecutor or the judge. A form is not sent to his parents. When the minor is 12 years of age or older, the judge is required to summon him for his hearing before taking any action. However, the young person may refuse to appear. This is done by means of a form sent to both parents who are required to respond to it. The judge hears the child alone. The law no longer allows the hearing to be delegated to a specialized department, nor does it allow the hearing to be conducted in the presence of a lawyer. It is envisaged that this interview will be recorded, attached to the file and that the minor of age will be informed of this. During the interview, if the judge thinks that the minor does not have the necessary discernment – which can still happen beyond 12 years – he must indicate this in his hearing report. For my part, I believe that the fact that the minor is able to be heard by the judge is an important and very positive element. However, I regret the abolition of the right of a minor of age to be accompanied by a lawyer or a person of trust during his or her hearing. The law does provide for an opening by providing that the judge may derogate from it by means of a reasoned decision, but it is feared that few young people will dare to write to the judge to request to be accompanied for this hearing using arguments to convince the judge, unless they have taken the precaution to consult a lawyer, who will write this letter detailing the arguments. There is a proposal for a European directive which aims to guarantee the child the right to be assisted by a lawyer throughout criminal proceedings – this is probably one of Salduz's additional slags – as well as the right to be heard at trial. The European Commission wishes to extend this procedure to all Member States. A decision is expected this month or next month. Minister, in one of your pot-pourri laws, could this change in the hearing of the child not be reconsidered? Do you not think it is regrettable that children under the age of 12 are not formally and systematically informed of the possibility of being heard? They could submit this to the judge. Do you think a young man will write to the judge asking him to be accompanied? Do you not think that some children cannot find the necessary arguments to convince the judge that it is preferable for them to be accompanied? The debate focuses on the balance between the rights of the self-reliant child and the needs of the child for protection. It may be useful to conduct a study on this subject if you do not have a response or a proposal for amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u61	Mr Massin, the Act of 30 July 2013 establishing a family and youth court does provide for special rules for the hearing of a minor but only for matters which concern them and concern the exercise of parental authority, accommodation and the right to personal relations. In these matters, the Act empowers the magistrate to better understand the interests of the child through answers to questions about his or her way of life and relations with his or her other parent. To that end, it is necessary that a privileged relationship be developed between him and the child, without the presence of a third person who would be in danger of speaking in his place. In addition, this hearing must take place in a place that it considers appropriate. Under the Youth Welfare Act, a young person who has committed an offence that has reached the age of 12 years must be heard personally by the juvenile judge before a provisional measure is taken against him or her. The person concerned is entitled to the assistance of a lawyer in this case. The young person shall also be heard in the event of a review of the measures taken in respect of him or her. I would like to recall that the ordinary law on the hearing of minors remains applicable if no special rules are provided for, in particular article 22bis of the Constitution, which gives minors the right to express their views on any matter affecting them or article 12 of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. There are no plans at this stage to review the rules on the hearing of minors adopted under the previous legislature and which do not appear to pose any particular difficulties in their application. With regard to the draft EU Directive which was tabled by the Commission on 27 November 2013, it should be noted that it has not yet been adopted and that negotiations are still under way between the Council and the European Parliament. The draft directive does indeed provide for the right to have recourse to a lawyer. However, it will only apply to criminal proceedings and will therefore cover, under Belgian law, only situations in which a minor aged 16 or over can exceptionally be brought before the ordinary courts. An amendment to the legislation on the hearing of minors is possible if the authors concerned express the need to do so in the framework of the working group on the monitoring and establishment of the family court.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u62	Minister, every year the European Commission presents its Justice Scoreboard, a numerical study that deciphers European judicial systems, with a view to improving the efficiency, independence and quality of justice in Europe. We are all sensitive to it. A great deal of information is requested and it would be interesting if Belgium could participate in this study. The European Commissioner for Justice, Ms Jourova, commented at the beginning of March on the 2015 version of this study, which is difficult to carry out, given the reluctance of some countries to provide their data, which is not the case in Belgium. If our country is not of poor composition to give its figures, it faces a computer capacity problem that leaves it behind in the collection of data collected by the CEPE, the World Economic Forum, the World Bank and the Commission itself. The Commission noted that Belgium was working with ineffective tools. Ms. Jourova was surprised by this and asked Belgium to cooperate more closely with the European Commission and the other Member States. Minister, we know that the IT strategy you want to put in place could solve many problems. So, did you have any contact with Mrs. Jourova? What was your response to better cooperate with the European Commission? Is it true that we have information that is available but that would be scattered and too little detailed? And, beyond the IT strategy that you have developed under your Justice Plan, do you have a specific action plan to gather the information, to refer the data back to the Commission and would it be possible for us to get progress on this data transfer and to know the timetable you want to set up?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u63	Mr Massin, I can give you the following in answer to both points of your question. First point. I met with the European Commissioner for Justice, Vera Jourova, on 19 March. During this meeting, we discussed in more detail the issue of the contribution of justice in the fight against terrorism, following the previous JHA Council. We agreed on the need to combat radicalization in prisons. We also discussed the strengths of the Justice Plan and my ambition to build on information management. The first step in this direction was the creation of a special information management unit. European collaboration is especially useful in developing a common approach that can help actors on the ground in their fight against terrorism. European efforts are, moreover, in line with my anti-radicalization plan. I also promised to fully support the development of the European Criminal Record Index System (ECRIS). This system should improve the exchange of information between different countries on convicted persons linked to terrorism. The system should be extended to convicts from non-European countries. I also told him that I would continue to support the Commission's plan to create a European Public Prosecutor's Office to prosecute infringements that affect European financial interests. Second point. As I mentioned earlier, we need much better documented and developed information management. A well-developed IT infrastructure that not only provides operational support but also collects information for analysis and policy purposes is also essential for data mining. You know, however, that our IT infrastructure today does not meet our expectations. There is still a long way to go, especially in this area. However, we must first develop a better vision of our information management before supporting it with an IT infrastructure. In fact, these two processes go hand in hand. We can continue to address this issue as part of the discussion on the IT strategy, but you understand that this is a work of several years. The first step in this direction has already been taken with the creation of an information service.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u64	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic127x.u65	Question No 3316 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez is deleted and Question No 3325 by Mr Gilkinet is postponed.
