ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic054x.u1	Question No 84, 897 and 898 by Mrs Lanjri President. - Question No 374 by Mrs Lijnen and Question No 374 by Mrs Lizin 585 by Mrs Jadin are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic054x.u2	Mr Secretary of State, like Mr Raskin, I would like to ask a question about Uber. For the Christmas holidays, this discussion came up again in the topicality, following a number of articles, the actions of the taxi drivers in Brussels and your reaction to it. The criticism of the regular taxi sector is that Uber does not comply with the rules, because it does not comply with social and fiscal legislation. Uber indicates prices which are therefore not competitive with respect to the regular taxi sector. This has been banned in the Netherlands. I believe that a different policy should be possible in our country, in which we are trying to develop innovative systems within the taxi sector, but of course in a social level playing field, so that the current rules are not thrown overboard. I read that you would organise a meeting, hence the following questions. What has been the outcome of the consultation with the sector? Will measures be taken against Uber to eliminate unfair competition with taxi companies? Those are the questions I had prepared. In the meantime, I have two further questions. I know that an investigation by the BBI is under way. Can you give us an update on that? You've also had meetings within the government. What is the outcome of this consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic054x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, I have a similar question, as you have already noticed. I will not therefore repeat the framework. It is in line with what Mr Geerts has already said. Do you share the view that innovative companies such as Uber, which offer services via apps or via the Internet, should have a place in the market? No one is above the law, of course. Also Uber must follow Belgian laws and regulations. It cannot therefore be tolerated that the app is being misused to organise undeclared work or unfair market practices. How do you plan to reconcile innovative concepts such as Uber with current social legislation? Is the current social fraud legislation sufficient to adequately monitor Uber's fraud-sensitive activities? Are you planning a new legislative initiative? Will you raise the issue at European level? After all, it is a global problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic054x.u4	Uber works with an electronic cash register, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic054x.u5	Right, no more cash. We support that, Mr President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your questions. Indeed, I have had a lot of contacts on the issue. First of all, I have noted that the problem in two areas falls within my competence, on the one hand, because of my responsibility as Secretary of State for the fight against social fraud and, on the other hand, because of the concern I have expressed about privacy. Google is an important player at Uber. One keeps records; the question is how one keeps track of them and what one does with them. Somewhat coincidentally, on 9 December, I already had an appointment with the national group of taxi companies. I have received them and listened to the concerns. However, the consultations were in fact part of the implementation of my policy letter. As far as the fight against fraud is concerned, I would like to look at various sectors and look at the sector-specific aspects. One of the sectors with which I want to make agreements is the taxi sector. For the sake of clarity, even in the regular taxi sector, it is not always clear whether all social security arrangements are being complied with. I had the intention of concluding a partnership agreement with the sector and the social partners, not only the taxi federation but also the trade unions, in the fight against social fraud in that sector. We are talking about prevention, detection and targeted repression. In the first conversation with the taxi federation, Uber was of course immediately discussed. The taxi federation had also announced that I had an appointment with her. That was immediately very topical. Uber is an alternative taxi service that works via apps. This means that the taxi federation is currently faced with the fact that their own business model is under pressure, as is the case for many other sectors. Think about the media. You know I know a lot about the media. Traditional paper newspapers are also under pressure from digital progress and many sectors, including the travel sector, have had to adapt their business model. The Federation accuses Uber of unfair competition. I understand that concern. I have instructed my administration to examine the status of Uber drivers. The question arises as to whether they are employees or self-employed persons, whether or not they are in a secondary occupation. Should they join the Social Insurance Fund? Whether the current social fraud legislation is sufficient to control and tackle Uber will be the subject of the same investigation by my administration. The Social Criminal Code has a wide range of administrative sanctions and criminal sanctions to curb infringements in the context of social fraud. For example, the employment of drivers with false statutes such as bogus self-employment can be addressed by means of regulatory texts. I refer to the law on employment relations, which allows the requalifying of an employment relationship which was not properly defined by the parties. I also refer to the special provisions on the transport of persons in social security legislation, which establish a presumption of subjection to social security as employees. So far I agree with you, Mr Geerts. Social legislation must be respected, social security cannot be avoided, not even for innovative projects. I had concerns about the privacy laws and privacy of the customer's data, because by paying everything with the card, a lot of customer data is available. When a person is transported with a regular taxi, one usually does not know who was transported and what name that person bears. At Uber people know that: they receive data via the card such as the name; the customer is sometimes brought home, so they also know the address and so on. I've received Uber and, for the record, Uber has two systems worldwide. On the one hand, they have a service such as that in Brussels: a kind of voluntary transport of travellers, a business system in which they do not employ their own staff. In other cities and countries they have a system that works with their own professional employees. For example, the system used in certain American cities with people employed at Uber is not currently used in our country. Here we only want to operate with the so-called volunteers. I drew Uber's attention to his duties, especially as regards privacy, which is not the subject of our discussion. I will take the necessary measures in consultation with the Privacy Commission. By the way, I've asked Uber to disclose his privacy policy to me. Mr Geerts, like you, I am in favour of innovative technology. Uber is an innovative concept that responds to a certain flexible traffic or transport needs. The concept cannot, of course, be an alibi to ignore existing legislation both systematically and purposefully. I am convinced that a strong classic taxi sector should not necessarily conflict with an additional innovative offer of private car part systems. During my interview, I informed the representatives of the regular taxi sector that they should also look for new business systems and the digital way and that they should also develop apps. In the meantime, I have noted that some apps have been launched on the market, such as "Taxi.eu' and "Cab'. They are only less known to the general public. I would like to mention the role of the Regions in this matter. I am the Secretary of State for Combating Social Fraud and Privacy. I suppose, however, that there are currently no taxi fares in the North Sea. It should be pedalos. However, I would point out that the organisation of transport is a regional competence. It is therefore primarily Mr Smet who is responsible for organising his own taxi services and his own transport facilities in the capital. At the moment, Uber is only active in Brussels. On the Flemish side, Mr Weyts is competent and on the Walloon side, Mr Di Antonio. They must organise transport and ensure that matters are dealt with in the transport field. I have already had contacts with Mr Smet and Mr Weyts. I will also contact Mr Di Antonio. As far as the European level is concerned, and that is what your question is about, Mr Raskin, I can tell you that technological platforms such as Uber are already on the agenda of the European Commission. This is being examined in the framework of European legislation on the free movement of services and e-commerce. I am not responsible for Digital Agenda, Minister Alexander De Croo is competent for this, but I would like to point out that we in our country must be careful not to miss the boat of e-progress due to a certain conservation spirit. I have noted, to my great disappointment, that we have experienced an incredible handicap and disadvantage in the field of e-commerce, but that is a personal thought. We certainly need to make sure that both the questioners are open to this, that we do not throw away the innovative dimension of it, we must not throw away the child with the bath water. I therefore share your view that these matters should be examined in the area of social legislation. That's what's gonna happen. The research at the RSZ is ongoing and I await the results of that. I would also point out that my fellow Members from the Regions will have to include this innovative event in their mobility policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic054x.u6	Mr President, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I believe that the discussion is about much more than just about Uber. For the sake of clarity, no one disputes that the innovative nature of the taxi sector is urgent and more necessary than ever. I believe that the opportunity offered by this discussion should lead to a reform of the taxi sector as well. Today this is all pretty corny. It is also true that this is a regional matter. You say that you yourself have reservations about the way in which the taxi sector is organised. When I look at the so-called turnover figures of the taxi sector in Brussels, we get EUR 19 million. This amounts to about 25 euros a day per taxi. This is, of course, due to the fact that there is a flat-rate system and that there is still some margin to be taken into account in these delays. I understand the sector somewhat, and I understand what you're saying. You have asked your administration to investigate the social status of taxi drivers. When do you expect the result? As far as privacy law is concerned, I share your opinion. One should not be aware of the destination and certainly not whose travel companions are.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic054x.u7	I would not want to take a taxi with Uber, which is where we went together, Mr Geerts!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic054x.u8	Mr Raskin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic054x.u9	It wouldn't be too bad if you took a taxi with Mr Geerts. Mr Secretary of State, I would once again like to join Mr Geerts. Innovative initiatives must be given a place, not only in the taxi sector but also in various other sectors. We must not miss the new technologies. We must not throw the child away with the bath water, as you say. In the Netherlands, moreover, a study has already been carried out showing that the satisfaction of users is particularly high there. Users are extremely positive about the cost, travel time, user-friendliness and safety. We must not lose sight of such matters. However, there is a great deal to be understood about the sector's sighs. We must ensure that equal work is subject to equal laws. So Uber too must comply with the existing social laws and regulations. We must combat unfair competition without questioning the innovative nature and the new business models.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic054x.u10	Mr President, Mr Geerts has asked an additional question which I would like to address. Mr Geerts, you ask when I expect the result. An investigation into bogus self-employment is not done in a week. Several months go by before we have proof that a number of things are wrong. In addition, interrogations must be carried out to determine how the system works. I think we can expect the research results for the summer. Then the investigation should provide some clarity. You asked another question about the BBI. I cannot answer that, because this matter is the responsibility of Secretary of State Sleurs. She's already told me she's gonna have an investigation in the BBI. I'll have an investigation done at the RSZ.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic054x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to question you about the attendance registration required for workshops where works are carried out, the total amount of which, excluding VAT, is equal to or above EUR 800 000. The attendance registration was introduced last year. A number of activities are excluded, such as occasional visits to the yard or when no real estate activities are carried out. In the autumn of last year, the RSZ decided to give inspectors an advisory role on attendance until the end of the year with regard to compulsory attendance or checkinatwork at certain yards. Therefore, they do not yet draw up pvprs. After the early introduction of the new system, I have a few questions. Has the RSZ, whether or not in consultation with the professional organisations, properly informed the undertakings concerned? If so, in what way? Will the attendance registration work properly on 1 January 2015? How many attendees have been registered since 1 April 2014, the start of the system, so far? How many real estate companies have been subject to attendance registration since the introduction on a monthly basis? Can that figure be broken down between Belgian and foreign companies? How many different persons have been registered since the introduction? Can this figure be broken down between those indicated in Dimona and those indicated in Limosa, namely foreigners coming to work in Belgium? Can you split the data by country of origin?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic054x.u12	Mr Lachaert, with your permission, I will not only answer your questions, but also the written questions I have received from Mrs Lanjri. That way, her questions aren't lost. As you know, I am in solidarity with the Members of this House. I have been a Member of Parliament myself for a long time. Mr Lachaert, as far as your first question is concerned, the RSZ has informed the companies concerned in a number of ways, in consultation with the professional organisations. These include the organisation of some 50 information sessions, the active supervision of contractors through contacting, information and support, the active supervision of software agencies and the companies implementing the web service channel. They have also taken various communication initiatives for contractors and subcontractors. They have made a plethora of information available on the social security portal. There is even an animated film on which the concrete operation of Checkinatwork was explained in a very comprehensive way. There have also been short reports describing the concrete operation of the gateway and the web service. There is a useful user manual that provides the necessary constructions for the use of the online service. There is also a question and answer section, FAQ, which provides answers to the most common questions, and a summary document describing the responsibilities and sanctions for all concerned. So a laundry list of information has been created for the people. As regards your second and third questions, the four different registration channels on attendances have been operational since the entry into force of the law, in April 2014. Thus, since 1 April 2014, more than 3.5 million registrations have been carried out and an average of 250 000 presences per week have been registered since October 2014. That's a little bit more than in the hospitality business. In October 2014, the attendance registration concerned more than ten thousand workshops, whereas normally only 3,943 workshops are subject to attendance registration. That means a lot of workshops that don't have to do it anyway. This is explained by the fact that several companies opt to register the presence of their employees in all workshops. So they go even wider than the obligation, which, of course, gives me great pleasure. As regards the number of persons declared, there are about 58 000 different self-employed persons and workers subject to Belgian social security and about 11 000 different persons not subject to Belgian social security. It concerns foreign workers for whom a Limosa notification was made. On the basis of these figures, I think I can say that attendance is operational and has taken a good start. Mr Lachaert, in reply to your fourth question, I can also say that in October last year there were 19 151 companies active in real estate works in workshops subject to attendance registration. It involved 14 731 Belgian companies, including 1 810 contractors and 12 921 subcontractors, and 4 420 foreign companies, including 51 contractors and 4 369 subcontractors. I would also like to give this answer to Mrs Lanjri's collaborator so that she can pass it on to her. To date, no sanction has been imposed in the context of the current rules on attendance registration. That has its reasons, too. The inspection services were asked to give undertakings the opportunity to familiarise themselves with this new regulation and to provide them with the necessary information, as provided for in Article 21 of the Social Criminal Code. I think it is only fair that when we switch to new systems, we do not immediately launch a witch hunt. I will tell the catering industry that I am not keen to start a witch hunt from day one and carry out checks on people who have to apply a new system. The introduction of a new system is often accompanied by a number of childhood diseases, which was also the case with the presence registration. These, in particular, practical problems were resolved in their entirety. For example, we have experienced limited difficulties with foreign companies in some cases in carrying out attendance registration. Since the end of December 2014, a solution has also been facilitated for the management of the employees' presence in those companies, so that presence registration in the future can be carried out smoothly, and this seems to me to be very important, even for foreign companies..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Moreover, I have already announced that I would very much like to have all the yards registered so that better checks can be carried out. Then I come to Mrs Lanjri's third question. To clarify, the mandatory presence registration by foreign companies can be performed without ConstruBadge. The registration will then be done with the L1 number or QR code, which can be found on the Limosa notification certificate. Mrs Lanjri specifically asked whether the ConstruBadge would become mandatory for foreign companies. Know that the ConstruBadge is currently only mandatory for employers under the Joint Committee 124 Construction Company. Moreover, the ConstruBadge was introduced by a collective agreement which was not declared universally binding by royal decree. Consequently, the ConstruBadge does not apply to the undertakings present at the workshops. That is a problem when I want to go to a mandatory attendance register of everyone who will be present on a workplace floor. I have already agreed on this and consulted with the sectors. Further concrete agreements will therefore have to be reached with the electricity, technology, metal and cleaning sectors. The ConstruBadge is not required there. I've had a lot of conversations with both workers' and employers' organisations. I am the Secretary of State who can at present get the people involved to sit down because it is about the fight against social dumping. I have already stated that, in my opinion, the registration of attendance is rather generalised, even for the sake of security, just think of Ghislenghien. Among other things, the concrete implementation of that proposal will be the subject of discussions with the social partners in the construction sector, which I will be holding at the Construction Round Table, which will be launched on 11 February, i.e. in less than a month. The aim of this consultation is to arrive at a logical, effective and, in addition, a package of measures supported by the construction sector. Pending these discussions, I can hardly anticipate the way in which the generalisation will be implemented. It is my belief that this is best done, but I will have to convince some players around the table. So far, Mr President, my answer to the questions is quite detailed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic054x.u13	Mr Secretary of State, we all know that the construction sector is a difficult sector, where turnover sometimes remains the same while reducing the number of jobs. The construction sector itself announces that it is difficult to protect regular employment in accordance with legal standards. In any case, I am pleased that the Secretary of State has paid the necessary attention to this since he took office. I am also pleased that this attendance registration can be a useful tool. The information approach was first applied and only then the repressive approach was applied. I believe that this is also the right order. I hope that you will be able to discuss this favourable evaluation with the sector and then carry it through correctly to where it is needed. At least the numbers are impressive. You mentioned 250 000 registrations a week. That is actually a great success for a measure in which there were some doubts at first. The path taken must be continued. We will therefore follow the dossier closely. Mr Secretary of State, I wish you every success in the discussions with the sectors in order to work out the measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic054x.u14	Mr Secretary of State, it is indeed a successful measure. The reason for its success is that it has been introduced in a technology-neutral way. In other words, there are many possibilities to comply with the measure. Imagine if someone had entered the attendance registration through a mandatory paper. If necessary, we would have experienced the greatest chaos ever. However, the registration can also be done via SMS or a QR code. I also call for a multi-channel approach, not a limit to one. You know my concern about the badge. The badge is quite twentieth-century. There are better methods than badges to register. Registration itself, however, is a very useful tool. I wish you good luck with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic054x.u15	I am convinced that this is the only way to tackle social dumping, especially in the construction sector. There are other sectors where it will be different, such as the transport sector; hence I am working on a sector-specific basis. After all, every sector has its individuality in social dumping and needs to be dealt with in a different way. There are, of course, general principles, but I share your opinion, Mr President. By the way, I have already received proposals for new systems in my cabinet from people who are thinking about new developments. This has already been mentioned in the press. With Ticto you can quickly, whether or not linked to the ConstruBadge, check whether someone who is present at a yard is okay with everything and may be there. This may also be particularly interesting in terms of security, but it is a very topical issue. I am thinking of extremism and terrorism. I have therefore told the people of that firm that they should also contact the Minister of the Interior. This seems particularly interesting to me in view of the developments that will take place in the coming years. The control systems will continue to digitise. In the meantime, Mr Lachaert, I have a scoop for you while you're here. I have an update of the data until 5 January 2015: it concerns 3 854 901 attendance registrations, i.e. almost 4 million. It's almost like the Lotto. Since I have mentioned many figures, I will hand over a copy of the figures for both you and Mrs Lanjri. You see, I am very parliamentary.
