ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u1	Philippe Goffin, president: We will begin our work. I will ask the written press if it is going to go upstairs; unfortunately we are a little tight here, parliamentarians must obviously have their place here. There's still a good ten places on top of it. The conditions will be the same for you and this will allow us to start work in the best conditions possible. Brecht Vermeulen, President: Mr Oomen-Ruijten, I would like to welcome you all. May I first ask that all my fellow Members of Parliament can certainly take their seats? Are there any fellow Members who do not have room at the moment? If so, I'll ask the employees to make room. Philippe Goffin, Chair: Colleagues, today we meet as a joint committee of Justice, National Defence, the Interior, General Affairs and the Public Service. I have with me the chairmen of the National Defence Commissions, Karolien Grosemans, and the Interior, Brecht Vermeulen. I'll tell you how we're going to work today. For thirty minutes, the government will speak through Jan Jambon, Koen Geens, Steven Vandeput and Bart Tommelein. Each group will then have a maximum of half an hour to express its views. Then we'll be entitled to the replicas. Brecht Vermeulen , President: As agreed at the Conference of Presidents and for the evening to run smoothly, it will be long enough for everyone to speak and a reply is given to the government's 30 minutes of speaking time, represented here by four people. After that, all political group leaders will take their turn for a maximum of 30 minutes. This will be done in the order in which the political groups are organised. Then there are the Ministers' replies and the Members' replies as brief, clear, correct and concrete as possible. Finally, there is still time for questions that have not yet been addressed, but hopefully they have already been integrated into the answers and replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, since the barbaric attacks, which took place exactly two weeks ago, against Charlie Hebdo in Paris, European and international news is more than ever under the sign of the terrorist threat and the problem of foreign fighters. Last Thursday, in our country, an anti-terrorist operation took place in Verviers and several other places in Belgium. At the end of a meeting that night, we raised the level of threat and increased it from 2 to 3. The events of Verviers demonstrate that terrorism and extremism are present and real threats in our country. As a government, we cannot and must not leave anything to chance. Anyone who undermines the foundations of our democratic society by force or who intends to do so must be stopped and, if necessary, severely punished. However, Thursday 15 January, the day of the targeted and successful action in Verviers, with foothills up to Brussels and surroundings, also brought positive news, namely the understanding that our services have not only done excellent work, but also that this has been otherwise very well worked together. That deserves the appreciation of the entire government. We would like to thank all the police and all the security and intelligence services who have contributed to this and congratulate them on their excellent work. As Minister for the Interior, I am particularly pleased that respect for our police, including in public opinion, has increased considerably. It is a matter of deep respect for policemen who risk their lives in the fight against criminals who also target their lives. We must, of course, remain on guard. For the time being, there is no evidence of a concrete threat of attack. But level 3 decreed until January 26th implies that our security services, in the broad sense of the term, are in a state of alert. Let's be clear, zero risk no longer exists. We can't stand behind every door. On the other hand, we can take all the necessary preventive measures, ensure that our staff in the field can work and collaborate effectively, and create an adequate and sound legal framework. As a government, we are proud that we were able to announce a successful package of 12 measures last Friday. Although not all of them have yet been developed into concrete texts, they do create a clear framework that is consistent. It is a good thing that we have the opportunity to answer your questions about the twelve measures in the meeting with the committees. The fact that we were able to present the package the day after the operation in Verviers is due to the fact that we have been working hard for several months on measures and legislation on the fight against radicalisation and terrorism. As you all know, this issue is a top priority of our coalition agreement. Since its first day, this government has been working to make this a reality. The twelve measures announced on Friday, which we are presenting to you today, constitute a first package of provisions in the fight against extremism, radicalism and terrorism. We're going to review them earlier, but let me already give you the lines of strength. The key, ladies and gentlemen, lies in the combination of actions. In addition to strengthening the legal arsenal required for the implementation of the measures, the global package of measures will, first of all, enable us, as a government, to act more effectively at administrative level, for example by withdrawing identity papers and passports. Secondly, the security and police services will be able to work even more efficiently and more synergistically. Thirdly, we will be able to detect and identify radical elements in our society in the past. The twelve measures are on top of the preventive measures that we, as a government, want to take. We always ensure that our measures keep security and privacy in balance and that they do not lead to the stigmatisation of one population. We want to pursue a robust policy with a view to a small number of extremely dangerous elements, which are fundamentally endangering our society by physically threatening us and disorienting ourselves mentally. We do not want to throw our model of society to a small minority who denies the essence of our society. It was agreed that the texts to enable the practical implementation of these measures would be tabled at the next Council of Ministers. With a view to the next budgetary control in March, we will also list the costs of these enhanced measures in the fight against terrorism. I am pleased that a consensus on the importance of this policy has been reached within the government. Before dealing with the twelve measures themselves, it is perhaps appropriate to take a look at the facts of the legal proceedings of last Thursday, which are now known. Mr Geens will be happy to explain to you the most recent state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in connection with a federal prosecutor's case, twelve searches were carried out last Thursday in the judicial districts of Verviers, Brussels and Halle-Vilvoorde. Two searches took place in Verviers, six in Molenbeek, one in Anderlecht, one in Brussels, one in Sint-Agatha-Berchem and one in Liedekerke. The searches were part of an investigation into an operational cell of persons, some of which came back from Syria. The cell was about to commit terrorist attacks in Belgium, in particular the killing of policemen on public roads and in commissioners. During the search at Verviers, the suspects opened fire on the Special Forces of the Federal Police. Two suspects were killed, a third was robbed of his freedom on the scene. No police officer got hurt. As part of the search, several weapons were found, including weapons of war and small arms, as well as ammunition and explosives. Police uniforms, mobile phones and communication equipment, false documents and an important sum of money were also found. A total of 13 people were deprived of their freedom in Belgium and two in France. In addition, extradition was requested and obtained from one of the two persons arrested in Athens on 17 January. In principle, this extradition will take place over the next few days. Today, the three suspects, arrested following the intervention in Verviers last Thursday, appeared before the council chamber and their arrest was extended. The three have been suspected of participating in the activities of a terrorist group and of violating arms legislation. The investigating judge also placed another suspect in the file under arrest warrant yesterday. The person concerned shall be suspected of participating in the activities of a terrorist group. He will appear in the Chamber in Brussels on Friday 23 January. The action in Verviers also found the passport of a Dutch national. This information was transmitted to the Dutch authorities. Today, the federal prosecutor has confirmed the identity records of all those involved. In order not to harm the current judicial investigation, I cannot give any further details at this time. I would, however, like to emphasise, following on from what Mr Jambon said, that there has been exemplary cooperation between all the services involved, namely the State Security, the Special Forces of the Federal Police, the Federal Judicial Police, the OCAD and the Federal Security Office.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u4	Mr President, we would now like to explain the twelve measures one by one. So Mr Geens can go right on his nerves.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u5	We have implemented the measures agreed upon in the government agreement. In the coming weeks, we will be preparing bills that will be before your chamber. A first step proposed by the Government is the inclusion of a new terrorist offence relating to the movement abroad for terrorist purposes in the Criminal Code. The mere act of travelling abroad will be such as to make the person who does so punishable for terrorist purposes. For the time being, however, this is not punishable. You will understand the meaning of this long sentence, because Mr Jambon will explain to you that we will give the Minister of Home Affairs the opportunity to take an administrative step in this regard, namely to remove the identity card and passport from a potential terrorist. Thus, if he still goes abroad, he will be punished. A second measure that we are proposing concerns extending the possibility of eavesdropping, with a view to preventing certain crimes. The crime for which evidence can now be collected by eavesdropping is the crime of inciting terrorism, recruiting, training and moving abroad for terrorist purposes. In other words, the person who makes propaganda for or incites terrorism may be the subject of eavesdropping in the sense currently given in the Code of Criminal Procedure in order to obtain evidence of that crime. Of course, this is only possible after an authorisation is justified by an investigating judge. A third set of measures will cover the following. In other words, the possibilities for withdrawal of nationality have been broadened. You know that, for the time being, our legislation already provides for the possibility of withdrawing Belgian nationality from those who have dual nationality. We cannot withdraw nationality from Belgians who only possess Belgian nationality, because it is forbidden to withdraw nationality from someone who, as a result of this withdrawal, would become stateless. The measure in question is an optional measure, it is an additional penalty that may be imposed by the judge. The judge may only impose this sentence in the case of certain offences, including, in this case, an expanded list of crimes relating to terrorism and radicalism. That is the third measure. I give the floor to Mr Jambon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u6	The fourth measure is the temporary withdrawal of the identity card, refusal to issue and withdrawal of the passport. It is planned to remove the passport and identity card when the person concerned presents a risk to public order and security. Today, the Foreign Minister can withdraw passports. We are now extending this measure so that the Minister of the Interior can do the same with identity cards, but in consultation with the Federal Office. It can therefore be done at the request of the federal court, but it can also be done at the initiative of the Minister of the Interior, but in that case he must consult the federal court. The purpose of this measure is to prevent such persons from leaving abroad. They can get to Turkey without a passport, but if we withdraw the identity card, they cannot go on. We do provide an alternative card so that the normal use of the electronic identity card can be continued. I know that access to some libraries can only be done through the electronic identity card and people will still have to be able to use Tax-on-web if they so wish. Thus, the normal functions of the identity card in the interior remain, but it is the identity card that gives access to move abroad that will be withdrawn and replaced by another card.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u7	A fifth measure concerns the implementation of a recommendation by the GAFI, an intergovernmental organisation dealing with the fight against money laundering and, inter alia, the fight against terrorism and money flows related to terrorism. The GAFI recommendation aims to encourage the countries that are members and contracting parties to the intergovernmental agreement to freeze the assets of returned terrorist fighters while at the same time checking the flows of money that could promote terrorism. The previous government has already taken preparatory measures in this regard. It concerns the drawing up of a list of terrorists and returned people, as well as guidelines from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice to help freeze these assets in the most effective way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u8	By means of the sixth measure, we want a revision of the circular "Foreign Fighters' of 25 September 2014. This circular "Foreign Fighters" will be adapted. The aim will be to simplify the current structures and a clearer division of labour between the services, as well as to systematise the way in which monitoring will be carried out. The criticism we often hear of this letter comes from the local authorities, from people who face foreign fighters in their municipality or city. This criticism means that too much burden is placed on the local police for the follow-up of those involved. Actually, they're asking for support from the federal police. Well, the letter will be amended accordingly. The division of labour between the local and federal levels will be reviewed, with the explicit intention of providing more support to the local authorities facing foreign fighters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u9	A seventh measure concerns the optimisation of the exchange of information between authorities and administrative and judicial services. We all know that the judicial investigation is, in principle, secret. However, it frequently happens in this context that confidential information is very important to the administration and that, when communicated to the executive, could make the prevention of and the fight against terrorism more effective. We will therefore examine, through this measure, whether we can optimize the exchange of information. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the secret of the investigation is very important, but in consultation with the judicial and administrative services we need to consider how an exchange of information on exceptional matters can better contribute to the armed administration, including in the context of foreign fighters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u10	The eighth point is the revision of the Plan R. There is a plan between the various services, known as Plan R, against radicalism. This plan is not published and remains secret. It dates back to 2005, and we are considering reviewing and updating it. We will not provide further details on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u11	A further point concerns the approach to radicalisation within the prison walls through better detection of radicalised detainees and those inciting radicalisation, on the one hand, and counter-measures in that regard, on the other. It is clear that sometimes, when they are detained, young people come into contact with radicalised elements that encourage them to join them in the struggle. That is why we will better train prison staff in two sections of existing prisons, namely one existing prison in the North and one existing prison in the South of the country. In this way, one can bring together the risky prisoners who could infect others and try to reclassify them. The use of Islam consultants is central to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u12	The tenth point is also contained in the coalition agreement, in particular the establishment of the National Security Council. The KB was approved by the Council of Ministers last week. The National Security Council will consist of the ministers of the nuclear cabinet, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Justice. I should also like to mention the following. It will be within the competence of the National Security Council to decide, if the OCAD establishes a level of threat and very special circumstances, by amending the law on the OCAD, to raise the level of security by one level. Lowering, afterwards, will be done by the OCAD. This is only about an increase in special circumstances; in practice this means that an increase from level 2 to level 3 or from level 3 to level 4 may be a decision of the National Security Council. The law on the OCAD should be amended accordingly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u13	The government also decided to hire the military on the national territory on 17 January 2015. Since then, many contacts have been made with my colleague Minister of the Interior, as well as between the Defence Staff and the operational direction of the Federal Police. The mission of the military is to protect sensitive locations in support of the federal police and communal police areas. The military deployed belong to infantry battalions, namely the battalion 3 Para and the battalion Ardennes Hunters. They are currently deployed in Brussels, Antwerp and some other cities in sensitive areas. It is important to mention that the military do not replace the police, but support the police. There was therefore no bilingual requirement imposed on staff, with which I answered one of the questions put. The military work autonomously, but under the control of the federal police, with which they remain permanently in contact through the ASTRID police network. In fact, the military have received special training to do this. The place and manner in which they are deployed is determined by the federal police in close cooperation with the Defence Staff and in function of available capabilities. As you know, that can go to 300 people. In order to optimise this cooperation, the DOD has placed liaison officers with the federal police and in every relevant police area. Additional coordination meetings shall be held regularly to evaluate the operation and cooperation. The legal framework provides for the use of all the means necessary to complete their mission. Therefore, in the case of the legitimate defence of persons, it concerns the security of buildings or places under their control, in accordance with the guidelines of an officer of administrative or judicial police. The so-called rules of engagement were drawn up by the Legal Department of Defence, in accordance with the law and in close cooperation with the federal police. The military have received a specific training in that domain. In addition, I would like to draw attention to the fact that they have not only the rifle they carry, but also some other weapons, including the baton and gas. Military personnel may move within the framework of their security orders, but in addition they carry out only static tasks and absolutely no police duties. Of course, it is not excluded that they can be seen on foot around a building protected by them. In the event of an emergency or an incident, they may call on a mobile intervention desk of the federal police. With regard to payment, it was agreed that the Federal State Department of Home Affairs will pay the variable costs. It concerns the additional allowances and allowances for staff, as well as the consumption costs of the equipment used. Defense itself will bear the fixed costs. The Defence Staff met with the social partners yesterday. He answered all of their questions and, based on my information, they were very satisfied with the interview they had. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u14	One last and twelfth measure concerns the strengthening of the analytical capacity of State Security. For the time being, the State Security Service employs 55 agents and 23 superiors for the supervision and transportation of presidents, ministers and foreign ambassadors in our country. It is a safety and protocol measure at the same time. Fifty-five persons (agents) will be transferred to Home Affairs. The other 23 (superior) will remain with the State Security and will be dedicated exclusively to the analysis of information and thus trained. It is a reinforcement that costs money because the Minister of Security and Home Affairs will have to recruit superiors for these 55 agents. But at the same time, we are able to strengthen with 23 full-time people the capacity to analyse state security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u15	Mr President, I would ask you to give the floor to Mr Tommelein, because security and privacy are two elements of balance and privacy is also considered very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u16	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as my fellow Members have said a number of times, both during this sitting and in their discussions, these measures will in one way or another always have to do with privacy law and the concept of privacy. Privacy is of course a relative concept, it is a right of defence that protects privacy. The principles that we have in our democratic rule of law must, of course, remain in line with the government's actions. One of these principles is the right to privacy, personal freedom, unhindered residence, the opportunity to separate, to decide who gets information about you and who uses that information and can live unguarded and unwatched. This means that all measures taken are subject to review in accordance with privacy law. This also means that we keep in close contact with the Chairman of the Privacy Commission to see if all measures currently comply with current privacy laws. I have therefore done so, and the chairman of the Privacy Committee has assured me that the measures that are being taken, unless, of course, those that still need to be put into legal texts and will still be discussed here in Parliament, comply with these privacy laws for the time being. Of course, this must be regularly evaluated, because in the event of such a threat of terrorism, we must take measures that go beyond what is happening in normal circumstances. Above all, we must ensure that there is no misuse of data. There is regular discussion here about the exchange of data, the storage of data and the storage of databases. We must therefore, above all, ensure that proportionality is maintained. There must be no arbitrariness. We must also determine who is responsible for the use and delivery of this information and the duration of the various databases and collections of information. Overall, we take into account the issues of privacy and the right to protect private life in the measures taken by the government. However, privacy is always proportionate to other rights and obligations. One of the important things, as Mr Jambon said, is the relationship between the right to privacy and the right to security. That is a balance that must be made every time, every decision and every measure that needs to be taken. Philippe Goffin, Chairman: Thank you very much. You have perfectly respected the speaking time. I now give the floor to Mr Vuye.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u17	In our neighbouring countries, the Netherlands, France and the United Kingdom, governments have already taken action. The UN resolution of 24 September 2014 explicitly calls for action against foreign terrorist fighters. With the twelve measures proposed here by the government, it is implementing that resolution. We must be aware that radicalisation is not new. She's been at it a long time. Some studies even indicate that she has been working since the 1980s. We can only regret that previous governments have not acted earlier, more efficiently and more decisively. After Charlie Hebdo and the events in Verviers, there was a wake-up call in Belgium. We must not be under any illusions. The attack on the editors of Charlie Hebdo is the 9/11 of freedom of the press and freedom of expression. This has consequences for our society and will also have lasting consequences for our social model. First of all, I would like to consider this model of society. What is the Western model of society that we are trying to defend? The model is the legacy of the Enlightenment, the belief in human reason. These in origin philosophical principles were converted into legal principles at the end of the eighteenth century. The first texts are the American Declaration of Independence and the very well-known Déclaration des droits de lиhomme et du citoyen. What's so important about those lyrics? From now on, the emphasis was placed on the inalienable and unchanging human rights. That is also the model of society that we find in almost all the constitutions of all Western continental countries. Almost all of these constitutions contain a human rights statement. These constitutions have all put these human rights declarations at the forefront, just to underline their importance. This vision, which has grown from the Enlightenment, is reflected in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 1948. This vision is also reflected in the European Convention on Human Rights, concluded in 1950 in the Council of Europe. The emphasis in our model of society is on the inalienable rights of every human being. This means that our social model is inclusive and must also be inclusive. By which I mean that everyone should feel at home and that everyone should have the same opportunities. Our model is a good model, but of course it is not perfect. We all know that. It's still human work. If there is still discrimination and social discrimination, then we must fight it. At the same time, let us remain serious. There is no form of social exclusion that can justify violence, as it has now been committed by IS and violent jihadism. What does our model of society mean? I would like to refer to a very beautiful passage by the Flemish philosopher Tinneke Beeckman. She says that our Western model of society presupposes, and I quote, that as a citizen, you are not primarily determined by faith. First you are a member of a community, then a believer, of any faith or non-belief." Beeckman continues: For centuries of religious conflicts have taught us that whoever places his religious identity first comes into conflict with others." In our model of society, people are primarily citizens of a society. This society offers many freedoms: freedom of expression, the right to privacy, freedom of religion and so on. These freedoms, including freedom of religion, exist within our society. These freedoms do not exist alongside society. These freedoms certainly do not exist above society. Integration does not mean that citizens must renounce their religion, but that they want to build a future together with us. Integration does not mean that everyone should become a Roman Catholic or atheist, but rather that citizenship and community prey on religion. I would like to refer once again to Tinneke Beeckman, who wrote about this: "Unfortunately, some people interpret religious freedom as the freedom to choose the source of justice, but then they inevitably leave the path of Enlightenment. Not God, but only man creates the law in force in society. In that society, according to Enlightenment thinkers, you are at first, yes, citizen and not atheist, Catholic, Muslim or Buddhist. We can only truly live together if no one puts his religion or his opinion above our social system. However, that is exactly what is happening now. Some people no longer feel like citizens in the first place. They reject our model of society. They reject it by force. They want to force another model of society. Within the Enlightenment Thought, as reflected in the European Convention on Human Rights, the pursuit of political change is clearly permissible. Evident, because change even has to be. You know the slogan of the N-VA. However, there are limits. We must not pretend that these limits are not clear. Those boundaries are pretty clear. It is found in the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. In the Refah Partisi judgment against Turkey of the Grand Chamber on 13 February 2003, the Court states clearly that it is permissible to strive for political change. There are two conditions for this. The means to do so must be democratic and the new model of society that we are seeking must be equally democratic. What we are now experiencing with IS, with Al-Qaeda, with Boko Haram and such organisations does not, of course, meet either of the conditions. These are flagrant and particularly violent violations of human rights. It is a question of human rights violations as a means of warfare. I think that the video of James Foley's beheading and later of other victims in all of us are burned on our retina, as are the images of women sold as sex slaves and last week's footage of homosexuals being thrown down high buildings. Recently, we have also discovered that some jihadists intended to organise some sort of killing in Belgium, with the intention of meeting as many police officers as possible. This kind of barbaric warfare is intended to undermine democratic values and, more importantly, destroy them. We are fortunate that the police have succeeded in preventing the attacks. We must thank them for that and congratulate them. I am particularly happy to do the latter. At the same time, we must realise that there is no zero risk. Even the best police service in the world and even the best measures to protect the population will not stop the fools of God. We will have to live with that, no matter how bad it actually sounds and is. The fact that the army now protects some buildings is, as far as the N-VA group is concerned, a logical and necessary step. We opt for safety, whether there's more khaki or more blue on the street, doesn't matter to me. That's not because I'm color blind, but because I'm opting for safety. Some say Belgium is not Kabul. That's right, but the paratroopers are just guarding the buildings so that Belgium wouldn't become Kabul. The social model of the violent jihadists is incompatible with our basic values. This is also reflected in the case law of the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights. The Refah Partisi judgment against Turkey clearly states that Sharia, Islam and jihadism are manifestly incompatible with the European Convention on Human Rights. The jihadist movement is just the opposite of the democratic rule of law. The same case law of the European Court of Justice also states that there is only one model of state which is in conformity with the Treaty, namely democracy. Democracy is the only model of state in line with the European Convention on Human Rights. Without pluralism, there is no democracy. The State has an obligation, on the basis of the European Convention on Human Rights, to allow the exercise of various religions and beliefs as a neutral and impartial body. The government must ensure that the different groups tolerate each other and can live together. This is not simply stated in some side-by-side judgment of the European Court of Justice. This is also reflected in judgments delivered by the Grand Chamber, for example the 2005 Leyla Sahin judgment and, more recently, the S.A.S judgment. against France of 1 July 2014. If only one model of state is in line with fundamental rights and freedoms, namely democracy, then that also means that democracy is an absolute principle. There are several categories of human rights. That's how I name the conditional rights, like the right to privacy. I wouldn't call that a relative right, but parole means something else. There are also absolute human rights, namely human rights that cannot tolerate an exception, such as the prohibition of torture, such as the non-retroactivity of criminal law and such as the principle of democracy. Democracy does not tolerate exceptions, because from the moment there are exceptions to democracy, there is no democracy anymore. The European Court therefore recognises the principle of resilient democracy, la démocratie apte à se défendre. That principle has been in place for a long time. I refer to the judgment of the Grand Chamber of 1995, in the Vogt v. Germany case and more recently, in the Zdanoka v. Latvia case in 2006. In these cases, the European Court has set out the criteria very clearly. What can be done on the basis of the principle of resilient democracy? This is very important in the light of the twelve points the government has just proposed. I shall read you the relevant paragraph. "The problem that then arises is that of a fair reconciliation between the imperatives of defending democratic society on the one hand and the imperatives of safeguarding individual rights on the other. Whenever the State intends to avail itself of the principle of a democracy capable of defending itself in order to justify interference with individual rights, it must therefore carefully assess the scope and consequences of the measure envisaged in order to ensure that the balance referred to above is respected." A balance must therefore be struck between, on the one hand, the need to defend democracy and, on the other hand, the individual rights available to jihadists. In that respect we, children of the Enlightenment, differ from the violent jihadists. During the plenary session, the Prime Minister used the expression "Démocratique de démocratique," which is a very correct expression. The pride of the democrat means that we are fighting those who deny our fundamental rights, while we continue to respect their fundamental rights. However, respecting these principles, it is clear that we must defend democracy. There is no room for those who reject our model of society. Let us be very clear about that. It's definitely a we-side story. However, it is not a we-side story between Muslims and the others. The border runs elsewhere. The border runs between those who respect fundamental rights and those who reject fundamental rights. The border runs between the children of the Enlightenment and those who choose darkness. It would be awesome to put our heads in the sand right now. There's definitely a problem. There is certainly a big problem. About 350 young people have left for Syria. The exact figure is not known. A hundred of them have returned in the meantime. The movers mainly come from Antwerp, Vilvoorde, Kortrijk and Maaseik. However, we must also be aware that Muslim extremists do not operate in the air here. In the social media there is indeed support for the misdeeds in Paris. The results of an investigation by the Gazette of Antwerp are truly staggering: 16% of Muslim youth find Muslim terrorism acceptable. Only 63% believe that the Muslim community should oppose religious extremism. I would like to emphasise very strongly that admitting to fundamental values is not possible and is not at issue. Freedom of expression applies to everything, including insulting the prophet. Cynicism, sarcasm, crap and satire are essential elements of our freedom of expression and its essential components of our democracy. We have come a long way over the past few decades on certain points. We have come a long way towards equality between men and women. We have come a long way towards equal treatment of Holebis. It's not perfect yet. We have not yet completed that path. We still have a part of that road to go. However, we are working on it. In this respect, we cannot make any concessions, either to homobashing or to religions or false religions that preach the superiority of men over women. It just doesn't belong here in our system. Prevention is important, I am aware of that. However, we are now at a different stage, one step further. We are at the stage of detection and repression. I would like to refer here to Law and Freedom, a standard work by Professor Meuwissen, emeritus professor of state law at the University of Groningen. He says that the principle of tolerance which underpins democracy presupposes reciprocity. It presupposes reciprocity. He writes that there is therefore no reason to tolerate non-tolerant people. If some people think that our social model is not good, if they do not like our social model, then they have the freedom to leave and seek their happiness elsewhere. That they do not blame the democrats for defending their democracy. What is more, I believe that we must firmly believe that we must defend our values. Democracy is worth defending. My group is for the Enlightenment, not for the darkness. I come to the twelve measures which the government has just announced. These are twelve principles in which my group can agree. However, they are principles and we are awaiting concrete results. The situation we are experiencing in Belgium means that this effect must be followed quickly. That effect will have to meet three conditions which I have just mentioned when discussing the Zdanoka judgment against Latvia. Firstly, the principle of resilient democracy requires that these measures are effective and effective and that they are not symbolic legislation. It cannot be legislation for which there is hardly a target group to which it can be applied. We're past the time of symbol law. It must now be a genuine defence of democracy. The second criterion is that these measures must clearly be proportionate to the objective pursued. This objective is quite obvious, namely the need to protect our democratic society. It seems clear to me that conditional rights such as the right to privacy and so on should be taken into account. Finally, there must also be procedural safeguards. That is an important aspect. I believe that only those measures which meet these three criteria are in line with the European Treaty, but also with la fierté du démocrate. We must defend our democracy vigorously but also in a dignified manner. I therefore hope, on behalf of our N-VA Group, that the drafts implementing the 12 measures that have just been announced will be submitted to Parliament quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u18	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, terrorism has always existed, but let us be careful, his face has changed. We have moved from political and demanding state terrorism to another form of fanatical and ideological terrorism, terrorism that the specialists name extremist and that challenges the evolutions resulting from the philosophy of the Enlightenment. After the attacks of 11 September in New York, Madrid in 2004, we experienced various threats and attacks in Belgium, such as the one against the Jewish Museum last May, whose victims are still in our memory. The terrorist threat clearly exists under our skies. It is latent; it is diffuse, sneaky and requires constant vigilance. It requires that all agencies responsible for assessing and countering this threat continually question their methods of work, the terms of their collaboration and strategies, as the first characteristic of contemporary terrorist groups is their mobility, their ability to adapt permanently, their mastery of new technologies and the use of the media. The operation we experienced last week is not the first one in Belgium, but it strikes, in part, by the international context, in particular the attacks in Paris, and, in part, by the number of people who could be involved in the network. In this situation, I called very quickly for a calm and serene debate, an appropriate response that unites us as much as possible because, indeed, democracy must be defended. You will simply allow me to be controversial thirty seconds: in this circumstance, I did not appreciate the political recovery of the N-VA which, obviously, made it an element of electoral campaign. It wasn't about what we were waiting for. Having said that, what we need to see at this time is that our services have been very efficient. We have to thank them for that. Perhaps with a flat, this wanted person in Spain, whom we are told that in reality she was at home, under surveillance, under electronic bracelet. What exactly does that mean? Is this information accurate? If so, has there been a small problem in the exchange of information, in collaboration? I ask you this question because if at some point an error has occurred, we will have to draw conclusions in order to further improve the collaboration we are proud of in the future. At the outset, I recalled the effectiveness of our services. That is something I would like to hear from you about. As I said before, if a network has been dismantled, it is because our services have worked well. I ask the government to be careful not to send the opposite message and to create some kind of psychosis. Let us not forget that terrorism feeds on intolerance, but also on fear and fear. We must react rationally and never forget that we are fighting to preserve and develop our freedoms, including freedom of thought, freedom of expression and freedom of movement. The response to terrorism cannot, of course, lead to the same objectives as those of the fools of God, namely, to annihilate those freedoms that are dear to us. I would therefore like to ask you a few questions about the measures you have presented. For example, with regard to the level of the threat, when the counter-terrorism operation began, the same evening, the services explained, at a press conference, that they had placed the threat at level 3 on the police stations. A few hours later, level 3 of the threat was widespread. Was this decision made at the request of the OCAM? Why? In addition, a military reinforcement has been proposed to strengthen the police. I recall that, following the attack on the Jewish Museum, this same response was not given. Therefore, should we not, as is the case in other countries, by determined level of threat, have pre-established responses, a plan that can be implemented immediately rather than taking different measures depending on the circumstances? I have heard you on the National Security Council; I will return to that. If I understand correctly, you have said that this Council, made up of ministers directly concerned, could raise the level of the threat or accept the level of the threat proposed by the OCAM. I find it strange to postpone the responsibility of the OCAM to the National Security Council, and therefore to the policy, the government. On the basis of what new parameters the Council would not have at its disposal? In addition, attention should be paid to the fact that, from the outset, each time the responsibility falls to the National Security Council. Because he either accepts the proposal of the OCAM and, therefore, he assumes his responsibility, or he increases the level and he also incurs his responsibility. I would have liked to have some explanations in this regard. As far as the protection of the population, the military in the streets, is that a good answer? Let's be good, let's make a point. In France, the military are on the street and this did not prevent the attacks. In my opinion, at a certain level of threat, with the agreement of the mayors, I agree that the army should be used to secure very sensitive or threatened institutions. But beyond that, I believe that the answer would not be appropriate, except, of course, in these exceptional circumstances. For me, it's creating a feeling of insecurity that runs counter to a calming that we need. The debate is open and I will listen to your arguments with great attention. What then? Provide our police and intelligence services with the means they need rather than create new institutions. I was responsible for intelligence services and OCAM and participated in the Ministerial Intelligence and Security Committee. As such, I can't understand the added value. But maybe you'll explain it to me. Rather than a new "bidule", what we really need is for the police and intelligence services to have the material and human resources to carry out their missions. You just gave a first answer. You have made announcements regarding additional resources for police and intelligence services. Good! I think that is still insufficient. There is a lack of, for example, the intelligence services of inspectors, translators and the information technology framework. There is a lack of means to multiply the essential human sources in the fight against terrorism. How is it possible for you to go beyond those announcements you have made to ensure the long-term effectiveness of our terrorism services? And don't tell us that within these services, the terrorist sections will be preserved from savings. Indeed, this means that savings will weigh on other sections, such as those affected, for example, by the fight against serious crime. For me, it makes no sense, there is simply a need for new means. With regard to the package of specific measures that you are proposing, it will, however, be necessary to evaluate the previously decided terrorist package under the former legislature, which had allowed the dismantling of "Sharia for Belgium"-type associations. Together, we will have to carry out this assessment in order to make informed progress. However, for a series of measures, I, like my colleagues, look forward to the texts – it is obvious – to examine the scope of these measures and the safeguards for the protection of privacy. This is the case with the extension of specific research methods and with regard to new terrorist offences. I look forward to the texts that will be proposed to us. With regard to internet control and radicalism in prisons, you are right, it is important to be more proactive. I urge the chairmen of the committees concerned, pending the texts of the Government, to provide for hearings and to work at the level of Parliament. Thus, experiences in England on the control of advocacy of hatred and violence on the Internet seem interesting. It would be a good idea if we could come and present them to discuss them and analyze the government's proposals in an informed manner. I finish an interesting book, Jihad, of French journalists on the route of young people who take the path of jihad. In this respect, what they can read and see on the Internet is extraordinary. So increased control, measures, censorship in case of clear calls for hatred and violence seem to me to be adequate responses. On radicalism too, I think we need to move forward. We talked about isolation. It will be necessary to listen not only to prison managers, but also to the guards, the social workers, to see all the actions that can lead to a better framework against radicalism in prisons, in partnership, moreover, with the Communities which are of obvious importance, since a part of the missions is carried out by agents of the Communities. In any event, I make the formal request to the chairpersons of the committees. Same, by the way, for the return of the jihadists. It is known that their profiles are very different; that there are differences between mercenaries and fanaticated and blinded young people, and that differences in approach to their return are necessary. Experiences are being conducted in European countries, such as Denmark. It would also be interesting, at the level of parliament, with the government, with the mayors facing this situation in the neighbourhoods, to have an open dialogue to find the best possible answer according to these different profiles. With regard to withdrawals of nationality, it was understood that there might be differences in sensitivity, but you did not talk about it much. First of all, it already exists, under control, with a judicial decision, for serious acts of a terrorist nature. Going beyond - I say it from the outset, even if I don't know where the government wants to go - and in particular targeting Belgians, this is what we are talking about when we talk about the second or even third generation, born in Belgium, whose parents or grandparents have settled in our home, it's not right. What message do we send to all these Belgians, the vast majority of whom make this country's social, economic and cultural wealth? That their nationality is just a pin's that can be taken away from them? That they will always be different from the other Belgians? Do you think it's really like this that we're going to make them proud of their Belgian identity? I don't believe it. This is a very bad idea which may have a totally opposite effect to its objective. Not that bias, I believe, on the contrary, that a stigmatization is institutionalized. Moreover, let's be careful, if one believes that the threat of losing one's national identity can play in anything, it is taking the jihadists for choir children, which they are not, in most cases. We're not going to stop them from committing a crime under that threat. On the withdrawal of identity cards in case of suspicion, I will tell you that this is a difficult debate, and I think we will have this debate in depth in committee. I am in favour of this in some cases, for underage children. Their parents come to find us, the communal publishers, the personalities of their region, to help them when there are signs of radicalization, and sometimes we don't know what to do. Under judicial supervision, if the removal of identity papers can have a protective effect on these minors, then I say yes. But go beyond it? First of all, I don't think that will ever stop anyone from traveling and going where they want. And I wonder if the principle does not go against the very freedom of movement that is dear to us. We will have the discussion in committee. Finally, about imams: yes, clearly you have to be more radical. It is unbearable, it is clear, that in our country, every Friday, extremists preach violence and hatred. To preserve all the others, these preachers, these imams who simply come to preach their religion, to protect them, one must be all the more severe and ruthless with the extremists. But I also look forward to seeing the concrete proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, after the events in Paris, in a great national unity, the French government has on the one hand proposed security reinforcements, while refusing exceptional measures that would undermine our fundamental values. That is, of course, what I am asking you, too. On the other hand, they called for no amalgam between terrorists and Muslims. As Ahmed Merabet's brother, one of the victims of Charlie Hebdo's attacks, said, "mad men have no colour or religion." Your government, and beyond, we all have this responsibility. Manuel Valls has gone further. He spoke of territorial, social and ethnic apartheid gnawing at our society. We have to fight every day, he says, this terrible feeling that there would be voices in our country that would count more than others. I find myself entirely in these words. The difficulties, the social fragility in which many of our fellow citizens are trapped, are obviously not an excuse for terrorist acts. Never! But these difficulties, as we know, are sometimes a crucible from which radical preachers draw. Even today, a study published by La Revue nouvelle has shown constant links between discrimination, including discrimination in employment, and radicalism. It is therefore necessary, through prevention and social emergency measures, in collaboration with all the Governments of that country, to continue this work of social bonding in order to give hope to those who do not. As a close friend said, "when you no longer give your compatriots a reason for being or a reason to live, they will look for it elsewhere." That is why we must invest in social cohesion, employment, prevention and education. I know that not everything is within the competence of your government, but investing in all these policies brings indispensable answers in the fight against radicalism. In conclusion, I would add that we will probably also have to find ways to better involve our fellow citizens in the construction of our society, to be proud of it, to understand its roots and its difficulties. Examples that flourish in other European countries: civic service. A volunteer service to social cohesion that would count in the curriculum of young people is certainly to be studied, because an identity is built in relation to others, without being locked in his house, in his caste, in his community; an identity is built in contact with the reality of a region or a country, in the commitment to the service of that region and that country. That, gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen, is a great deal of work for the coming weeks and months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u19	Mr President, I shall probably be shorter. You will intervene on a number of parts in the second round and Mrs Françoise Schepmans will do the same. Ministers, I thank you for this presentation of the measures presented by the government last Friday following the Kern which you have devoted to the implementation of these first measures. Twelve important steps had to be taken, which probably should have been taken sooner. You have to say it clearly. Europe, our country, has changed since the departure of hundreds of Belgians in Syria almost three years ago. Personally, I had referred to a number of measures that I find in the measures presented by the government today. Should we plead guilty for not reacting earlier to this threat that has grown? Probably. What matters today is that these measures are on the table, that they have been negotiated within the framework of the government agreement. Under the leadership of the Prime Minister and yourself, almost everything that was foreseen in the government agreement is being presented to Parliament today, not as a result of the Paris bombing, but as a result of the attack on the Jewish Museum last May. We were the first European country hit by people returning from Syria. So it was necessary to speed things up. Why? You've had information for weeks about a major attack being prepared on our soil. After the horror caused by the attacks in Paris, where we saw targeted and targeted targets, journalists and therefore freedom of expression. Jewish targets, because, of course, these jihadists are anti-Semitic. And then the police, because they embody security and order in our society. A few days after the attacks in Paris, we foiled another one on our soil, whose targets were comparable. As we know, they will often be the same: institutional, police, Jewish – everything that embodies what we are in terms of value. As the previous speakers have said, it is our values that we aim for, it is our democracy, it is freedom of expression. That's what we are that we want to destroy. It is obviously important to react, as you did so quickly with these twelve measures. It is clear that if we have foiled an attack in Belgium, we do not cry out for victory. We do not rest on these laurels. We must continue to make every effort to better protect ourselves and better equip ourselves, in order to be stronger in the face of a threat that exists and persists. The Prime Minister has indicated – like you, Minister of the Interior – that there is no zero risk. But do we have to be afraid? No, we just need to be more vigilant. And I'm talking about the citizens themselves. Indeed, this threat is going to settle in our country, as it has done in the heart of several countries that have long been targeted by terrorists and that have decided not to live in fear, but to be resilient. I am of course thinking of Americans, Londoners, Spaniards, Moroccans. Their countries have long been threatened by terrorists and have suffered an attack on their territory. With our security services, the police that we must naturally thank for their action, our special forces that have been extremely effective and that will continue to be so, we must not be afraid. We must do everything we can not to reduce the threat to zero risk but to reduce it by increasing this level of vigilance and prudence. It is in this sense that the level of safety has been placed at level 3. The aim is to increase the level of vigilance and security. These are the words of the Prime Minister and yours on the occasion of the presentation of these measures. We are gathered here today to meet a number of objectives. Of course, the political formations are different, sometimes quite distant, but it has been noticed, since this attack which has been foiled and what has happened in France, that the will of all the political groups is to avoid at best polemics, to avoid at most sinking into political politics. Yet we have a few accounts to settle on these files! We have been frustrated by a few debates on these issues on which we should have moved faster, on which there would be much to say. I won't say it! I'm not going to say it because, Mrs. Onkelinx, we'd fry ourselves a little bit. It's not time! I naturally respect the call of the government, the Prime Minister, to try to meet, as broadly as possible, the convergences beyond this national union that we must face with this terrorist threat. The idea is simple, it's to go as fast as possible. The idea is to give our services the opportunity to be equipped as quickly as possible with the measures that will simply make us stronger in relation to this threat that is taking place. I will review with you in the time given to me a number of the essential measures that I find in this presentation that you have given us briefly today. It is obvious that the first of these is in my view essential. Whether it is activated by the 1979 law or by another way, no matter what! The extension of terrorist offences and the adaptation of legislation for a more effective sanction. What does that mean? Clearly, finally, we are sending a clear message: the ban on leaving to join a terrorist group abroad. That was not the case today. Obviously, a number of departures are not made via terrorist channels. That is why we have so many difficulties sometimes in a number of cases in sanctioning returns and in having to carry out surveillance involving a number of difficult situations. Our services must send the message to prohibit a number of young people from leaving. Why? Because, morally and legally, in terms of security, we believe that it is not a good thing to join these groups. We didn't say that earlier. We're finally saying it. This is an essential element of the measures you are presenting today. Beyond that, there is a whole series of measures that affect the means that we are going to give our services to work more effectively. It is obvious that even if we had been careful to extend the law of 18 February 2013 to new terrorist offences in terms of training, recruitment, incentives, we had not expanded the Code of Criminal Investigation, which naturally gives the possibility to implement specific methods of research, including listening. This is something the services have been demanding for a long time and will give them the opportunity to work more flexibly. The withdrawal of nationality was a problem. We're talking "concord," "national union." It is obvious that this will require debate. We're here to do that. In a number of cases, we may not have the same vision as others. In any case, like the Prime Minister, the Reform Movement is concerned with the deprivation of nationality. The idea is to sanction, in particular symbolically. The removal of nationality also means the possibility of expelling a number of persons who constitute a threat from the territory. It is clear that we will be extremely attentive in this regard. Today too many possibilities of exceptions exist. Having said that, it seems to us that it will be possible to move forward quickly on this issue, even if we will have to face objections from opposition parties in the debates to be held. Temporary withdrawal of the identity card, refusal to issue it and withdrawal of the passport are measures that probably could or should have been taken earlier. That would have raised common sense. Today, they are on the table and are in the process of being implemented. This is, of course, an extremely important element. That's how I'm going to freeze national assets. Terrorism is funded. It is known that, for some time, a number of suspicious financial flows which should or could have been frozen have not been frozen on procedural issues, on information exchange issues. Working on this aspect is also a matter of common sense. Of course, it is necessary to ensure that the money that is used for terrorist activities, which is used to buy weapons, to buy explosives, to organize networks of departure, is frozen. It is also the terrorist portfolio that we must now attack ourselves, even if we should have done so earlier. The sixth measure concerns the revision of the circular. Clearly, there will be work at this level in terms of information exchange but above all in terms of monitoring. What's more important than following a certain number of turns, knowing where they are and what they do if they're not in prison! In this respect, we will probably have to equip ourselves, in order to support the work of the services, with additional technical resources. We'll have to think about it. We have made proposals to that effect. With regard to the optimisation of the exchange of information between the authorities and the judicial administration services, work has been undertaken under the former government, but it needs to be completed. Indeed, the local police, today, are still lacking information on issues that are sometimes as important and light as security clearance issues. The information does not circulate while the local policeman is in direct contact with radical phenomena. The local police are in direct contact with the follow-up of these dangerous people, but the information does not come down. Mr. Minister of the Interior, I saw you acquiescing. There is a work that is fundamental: information, information exchange, fluidity in information is one of our best weapons to fight against these networks, these radicals. The revision of Plan R is obvious. It dates back to 2005. There is no need to talk more about it. We cannot mention it here, but we all know that the threat is no longer the same and that Plan R needs to be revisited. As far as the fight against radicalism in prisons is concerned, the chairman of the committee, Mr Goffin, will mention it. We had already made proposals in 2010 on the basis of difficulties – and the term is light in relation to reality – when the prison in Andenne lost control, at the initiative of a number of radicals. This phenomenon does not affect our country in particular, but the whole of Europe. Radicalism is a resistance position in prisons. The freedom of worship of prisoners is no longer guaranteed in some cases, in some areas of our prisons. Multiple work is to be done at this level, Mr. Minister of Justice, as you have indicated, it is necessary to avoid contagion, to isolate a number of prisoners, but it also means that we must train our prison guards to work more specific in relation to this threat. We may also need to work more with Muslim chaplains who are too few compared to the number of Muslims in our prisons today. Again, we know that we find it difficult to find Muslim chaplains to work with us in difficult situations. It is not given to anyone to perform such a function. So there's a lot to do. It is not Islam that is guilty. Some marry, in fashion, the drifts of a religion, to turn it into a philosophy of resistance, a philosophy of rebellion. Nevertheless, we will be following this issue with great attention, together with Philippe Goffin and Gilles Foret, given the work we have been doing on this proposal for a number of years. I'm coming to the National Security Council. This is one of the major pieces of the measures you have presented. Reforming the College of Intelligence and Security is not a matter of fashion, it is not to do more fashion. In this College, the information was no longer exchanged, because the security clearance between the different participants in this meeting was not the same. This effort should probably have been made earlier. It is a reform that will give us more capacity to confront and work more effectively in the fight against racism and anti-terrorism. What about the call to the army for specific monitoring missions? Mrs. Onkelinx, you asked a question. Without controversy, I'll ask you another one. You asked if the army's presence on the street in France had prevented the attacks? If the army wasn't on the street in France, wouldn't there have been more attacks? We have the opportunity, as in other countries, for National Defence to participate in the effort. The idea was clarified by the Minister of Defence. Naturally, this will not last ad vitam aeternam. The number is 300 units: 150 today and 150 are in training. Perhaps you will tell us, Minister of Defence, a word about this ongoing training, and about other specializations in current training. This National Defence presence is only at Level 3, or from Level 3, and not at Level 2. As you have pointed out, and this is naturally a demand as a democrat, this balance between freedom and security is essential across all measures. What a failure it would be for the democrats that we are to severely reduce freedom on aspects... the terrorists would have won if we had to see the freedoms reduced. It is obvious that it is not the generals who command National Defence on the streets. It's the police. They're in support of the police, under the command of the police. The Prime Minister said in a rather educational way that if we need the army when there are floods, why don't we take that support when there is a terrorist threat? Somewhere, it's common sense. As Liberals, of course, we are ensuring this balance between freedom and security. Naturally, we are ensuring that the rule of law remains the rule of law. Strengthening the analytical capacity of State Security brings me to the other point that I will address. If I am not mistaken, a transfer was planned of 70 units at the federal police level. It won't be that much. We keep an additional capacity in terms of personnel for the State Security, which we need. All these measures will be quantified by the time of the budgetary adjustment. You have clearly indicated the will of this Government to ensure that the necessary resources are provided for the fight against radicalism and the fight against terrorism. As the Prime Minister pointed out, the interdepartmental reserve will be concentrated, to the tune of 300 million euros, on this effort. Budgetary monitoring is ongoing. Of course, in the context of fiscal adjustment, flexibility in relation to this figure will be very particular given the government's effort and priority. A few other elements. First and foremost, cybersecurity, but we know that the cybersecurity centre will not only work on the fight against radicalism and terrorism. This long-awaited cybersecurity centre will be set up, along with means to track down incitement to terrorism, recruitment on the Internet since the Internet is obviously a gateway to Syria. We have a lot of work here. Secondly, let us remember that we need to invest more in partnership with cults. There is no doubt that the joint declaration of religious representatives, who surrounded the Prime Minister, is important. We will not defeat Islamism, radicalism and terrorism if we do not reach out to Muslims who want to stand next to us against Islamists. Like this statement by the President of the Belgian Muslim Executive, who was extremely firm, as we all expected, including Muslims, to be. Of course, this is a long-term work that must probably be stepped up. Mr. Minister of Justice, I know that you have recently had contact with the President of the Executive. Collaboration needs to be increased on various aspects, including chaplains and deradicalization. Deradicalization is obviously an effort to produce with Muslims at the level of prisons. We will have to think so that the image of a number of deradicalization cells existing in Denmark, England, France, can not wait for the prison box to deradicalize. I'm going to the prevention side. It is clear that the effort and objectives will not be met exclusively by the federal government. Beyond political differences and differences of majority – and this is the purpose of the first meeting that the Prime Minister organized with the federated entities – we will have to work together. Regions understood because, of course, the responsibility for prevention lies with the federated entities. Education is a federated entity. It is clear that in school we need to talk more as we have expected for a number of years, about the common foundation of values. We need to talk together. Students need to discuss these issues together. Perhaps we are finally going to have an effective integration path, not to integrate in the negative sense. Just to gather. What is it to integrate, if not gather around common values, around common rules? The integration path, of course, will have to be activated. These are some elements that we will necessarily have to discuss again. I shall end with an element that must bring together beyond this country. This is, of course, what is expected, Mr Minister of the Interior, as a result of the Paris meeting, to see cooperation on a European scale. It is the first that is more effective, that allows us to exchange our information more effectively. We were here a few to listen to the Commission representative yesterday to talk about the European Commission's programme to combat radicalism, to listen to the priorities that the Latvian Presidency of the Union had put on its agenda in relation to this European collective effort. We expect rapid results on a European scale. If we cannot, if only at the level of the RMP, but also on other aspects of European cooperation, stick together more closely, that will not be the case! We must no doubt take advantage of this opportunity to bring around the table countries that have overly turned their eyes away from the demands that are ours today in this regard. We will therefore have to move quickly if we are to achieve results. I know that we will have the opportunity to see fairly quickly the results of the European Councils, the European Commission and the Latvian Presidency. It is a fundamental element.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u20	Madam President, at the start of the debate, the government paid tribute to the policemen, the members of the judiciary and the staff of the security services who have done a wonderful job in difficult circumstances over the last few weeks. I believe that this tribute is more than justified and deserved. I would like to join in this on behalf of our group and I believe that we all agree. The events have shown that there is a great deal of quality in the various security forces and the existing legal instruments allow for sound research work. However, today's risks and threats show that it may be appropriate to tighten up. The government has announced and will now implement various measures. That is a good thing. The fact that the Council of Ministers was able to take such far-reaching decisions last Friday is mainly due to the fact that before the incidents in Paris there was already awareness of the threat and the risk. If we look at the coalition agreement, we can see that a great deal has already been prepared. For example, the coalition agreement refers to an integrated chain approach to radicalisation. That seems to us to be the right way forward. This presupposes protection, prevention and also repression. All three are necessary in order to implement an efficient security policy. This obviously means a lot of consultation with other governments in our state structure. I am thinking primarily of the Communities, which are responsible for many matters which are directly or indirectly closely related to security. It is about labour, education, integration and well-being. This requires information flow, coordination and also policy alignment. It is good that the government has already raised the issue in the Conciliation Committee. Much more needs to be done, of course, together with the various governments, first and foremost with the Community governments. Ministers, in your introduction, you referred, among other things, to the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Security and Enforcement Policy. You spoke about updating the National Security Plan and the Integrated Security Framework Paper. Yeah, they need updating. Yes, the Communities will have a crucial role to play in this. After all, its preventive part is essential for an effective repressive approach. It is, as it were, a pyramid, the foundation of which is a common base of values and standards. There is the preventive block and at the top, last but not least, is the repressive block. They are inextricably linked. That is why I believe that the next few months and years in this area will require permanent structural consultation with the Communities. I also believe that there will be a need for a great deal of consultation with local authorities. Many local drivers sit with their hands in their hair. One is better equipped than the other. Not every municipality has the same expertise. Information flow is also crucial here, because it is possible to detect radicalisation at this level at an early stage. I therefore call for maximum support for local authorities. They are there to preserve the social fabric and to strengthen it wherever possible; they must guarantee the safety of everyone and ensure that every citizen lives in accordance with his rights and obligations. Colleagues, we want a safe society. But let us remain realistic. Safety isn't absolute. There is no such thing as a risk-free society. She didn't exist yesterday, she doesn't exist today, and she won't exist tomorrow. If we are to draw up security policy today, we must do so with respect for rights and freedoms. Those rights and freedoms are, of course, not absolute. The members of the government have already cited the right to privacy. For our group, security and privacy go together. They're equal. Our police and judicial legislation protects the rights of the defence and protects the right to privacy. I believe that this should also be done when the legislation is being drawn up. Privacy and security do not necessarily need to collide. I would like to go into this in more detail on the basis of a dossier which, although not part of the twelve-point programme, has already been debated last week and on which the Secretary of State for Privacy has made public statements. I refer to the debate at European level on access to passenger data. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and European Democrats are in favour of this. After all, it is perfectly possible to answer the fundamental questions in this area, for the sake of security but with respect for privacy. These questions are as follows: Which bodies and which staff within these bodies collect the information? What quality requirements should those staff meet? Which bodies and which staff face the information? After all, two eyes are not enough. What information is given and how long is it stored? And above all, what control do we exercise on the authorities and their staff working on the information? It goes without saying that personal sensitive information cannot be thrown out of control, indefinitely in time. It also goes without saying that this information must have the sole aim of increasing security. Ladies and gentlemen, I come now to an issue that has already been discussed in Parliament, in the media and in the streets, the presence of our army. I repeat, we want a safe society. Exceptional circumstances also require exceptional measures. However, emergency measures are not sustainable measures. We understand the emergency situation, but they remain exceptional measures. There can be no question of military deployment on a permanent basis. Our group does not want a police state. We certainly don't want an army state. I think good agreements have been made on this. The protocol is the guiding principle, Mr. Secretary of Defense. Yes, there is now the general threat level 3. I assume that the competent authorities have had objective reasons for this. Yes, the threat level can be increased. I hope it's not necessary. I hope that one does not go over one night ice when making such decisions. Relevant is the proper application of the Protocol. What do I read in there? I read in that protocol that the army's deployment is temporary. That seems crucial to me. I read that the measure will be evaluated on a monthly basis. That seems crucial to us. This evaluation will of course take place after obtaining the opinion of all the competent authorities. Then the trade-offs will be made. The considerations for the military's deployment will be made by the government. Yes, that seems logical to me, because it is not only about security, but also about financial repercussions. I do read in the protocol that the government decides after consulting the Security Council and competent authorities with expertise in this area. That is crucial for us. Mr. Secretary of Defense, it's a budget-neutral operation for your department. The fixed costs remain at your expense. The variable costs will be borne either by the Minister of the Interior and his department or by the government if it has to provide additional resources. Do you have any idea of any budgetary implications? How much is the army's stakes a month? Do you have any resources within your budgetary constraints, Minister for the Interior? I understand there will be additional security resources. That doesn't seem illogical to me. Are the costs for the operation covered? Colleagues, information exchange seems crucial to me, of course, with our neighbouring countries and with the EU countries, but also internally with regional and local authorities and within the federal government. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I cannot deny what the P Committee has written in its annual report on this subject. I quote: "For the time being, no competent authority is able to accurately map the multitude of databases incorporating information on terrorism and extremism within the police, nor is there any monitoring of efforts and/or information flows around terrorism, extremism and radicalism.' This is a very curious finding by an important body such as the P Committee. The P Committee therefore suggests in its recommendations a follow-up to the multitude of databases. Monitoring the flow of information on extremism and terrorism seems to us to be necessary if we are to have an effective policy in this area in the future. Hence my question. To what extent can a correct and quick response be given to these problems in the Home Office and in the police in particular? Finally, I have heard from the government that it will come up with drafts very soon. These proposals will then be submitted to the Council of State, approved at second reading and then submitted to Parliament. Our group is prepared to give priority and speed to the sound and quality legislation that will come to us in the interests of the security of our country's citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u21	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I have just heard Mr Vuye argue for the values of Enlightenment, universal secular morality, if I may put it that way. These are fundamental values such as equality between men and women, and of course also the separation of church and state. These principles are important, but of course we cannot ignore the fact that, if we look back on the past 30 years, terrorist attacks have taken place of very great diversity. I remember the period of the Cellules Communists Combattantes, the Rote Armee Fraktion, the Baader-Meinhof group. I remember what a certain wing of the Irish Republican Army did, or the ETA militar. Bloody Sunday had nothing to do with the jihad, but it was extreme terrorism. They were unhindered people who have all surrendered to actions and acts that can be called barbaric and have nothing to do with the fundamental principles of a rule of law, for which we must remain a guarantee. I would just like to say, and I agree with what other colleagues have said, that we must step up our actions against all forms of terror. We must, if possible, use more resources. We need to evaluate existing systems, but as you said yourself, Minister for the Interior, there is no such thing as a no-risk society. Whatever we may use resources, whatever we may group up with people and the most modern technologies, there will always be a risk of terror. I should like to describe what we should do with a legal figure. We stand for a commitment to resources, not a commitment to results. We must be sure that we mobilise all the means that are democratically legitimate in the fight for greater security, but we will never be able to guarantee the result. I come to a number of adjustments that have already taken place in the past. The whole of the police reform was a rather fundamental process that we started legislatively after the events in the so-called Dutroux affair. This horrible case had nothing to do with terrorism, but was an act of crime that has continued to reminisce for years. We then reformed the police, assuming that a police force had to be developed at two levels, where the circulation of information was crucial. I would therefore like to stress this internally, in our own country, as the first principle. It is not only important to have information, it is also important that the information is shared. Someone who has information and doesn't share it makes it impossible to operate efficiently. Mr Verherstraeten referred to Defence. When talking about the use of extraordinary resources, we have to note that the core business of the government lies with the police, which is responsible for ensuring the security of citizens. The police were trained and formed for this purpose. Those people are paid for that and even paid pretty well. We can of course think and philosophize about a number of outsourcings. To some extent, we can agree with the proposal that private security or surveillance companies should be able to carry out certain tasks, but only within a strict legal framework, without affecting the police monopoly in the area of law enforcement and, above all, in the area of the use of weapons. Same goes for the army. In this respect, I fully agree with the approach that this is an exceptional situation, which can only be achieved from a certain level of threat. It can also only be on call when a particular police area asks for the support of the army. This can never be decided overnight, and a police zone is suddenly confronted with the deployment of military forces. No, it's the police area that should effectively ask for military deployment. However, it can never be a structural or, as Mr Verherstraeten put it, a sustainable solution. I fully agree with that. To conclude my first point, I would like to refer to a number of foreign examples, which may have inspired many and which show that the right to absolute security is and remains an illusion. A few years ago, I visited London. Mr Home Secretary, you have been to London with a different objective. I've been to London to look at the British's camera system. When a person passes certain routes in London, he or she is filmed up to more than five hundred times a day. No other capital has an as effective system of camera surveillance as London. We could philosophize and say that every time someone is filmed, which is actually a violation of the right to privacy. Let us not forget that, but let us also say that the use of such systems can never be disproportionate. The day after I left London, the attack on four subway stations happened. I've been following the case and I've been told that the cameras helped, because the unsubs were identified very soon. However, it has not been possible to prevent what has happened. Some Members referred to the military in France. For me, this can be done in certain proportions, but in France, too, the military have not been able to prevent what has happened. The tendency to defend the right to absolute security may well exist in the aftermath of a number of terrible terrorist attacks, but we must not proclaim such a right to absolute security. My second point concerns the right to privacy. I will be very brief about that. I address myself in particular to the Secretary of State, who knows my sensitivity and from whom I think he shares my sensitivity. In some countries it can be seen that the pendulum has gone in a certain direction. We must go to the United States of America these days and ask the people of Congress what they think about the so-called Patriot Act. Indeed, in the aftermath of 9/11, certain principles of the rule of law were followed. There was no need for a magistrate to do this, and administrative arrests and other acts were carried out at a certain time. I believe, however, that there are certain hangovers in the United States of America today for what was achieved with the Patriot Act at the time. Did they really want to do that? Have they created a safer society? What is the price they have had to pay for admitting to certain essential principles? Did that give them more security? It has been said and written so many times, but I repeat: never do what the terrorists ask you to do. If they deal with us in a no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. We must act within the limits of a democratic rule of law. This gives us the impression that we are not really competitive or competitive, because they can use methods that we cannot use, but we must not give in to them. That is a plea that we must continue to make, even though there may be a temptation to admit a little because it would not be so important. That is where we need to keep our heads down. I come to the principle of passenger control. I am a little more nuanced than Mr Verherstraeten. I'm here for that. I am in favour of it to the extent that I believe that, if the European mill is moving too slowly, and we are grinding very slowly in Europe, some Member States that are trying to speed up. I'll give you another example later. When I was in the department, I said that we would not wait for Europe in the field of data exchange. It is not because the European machine is slowly grinding that we must hypothesize people's right to safety by waiting years for that discussion to be resolved. You know the basics. We will not accumulate that data timelessly. We shall do so with a certain objective in mind. It has to be about safety. The day when people discover that these data have been misused and that they are being dealt with in other files, they will ask what happened. In other words, there are certain limitations that we must respect effectively. I also fully support your intention to examine as a Member State of Europe whether we could speed things up if the European Parliament does not get out in a reasonable period of time. Indeed, there are data that we need to be able to step up the fight against terrorism. I would also like to refer, Mr Home Secretary, to the example I just suggested, namely the 2005 Prüm Convention. If we had had to wait until all the Member States of the European Union were on the same page for the exchange of data, data files, DNA and so on, we would not have been here today. It is thanks to Germany and the then German Minister for the Interior that the Benelux countries have decided to start with Germany and apply the principle of enhanced cooperation. France followed pretty quickly. Spain was followed, and when it started, all the Member States wanted to be there. In order to make the European machine run rapper, the principle of enhanced cooperation should therefore be recommended. I would like to give you that, because the Ministers of the Interior meet after a terrorist attack. They decide a number of things, but as you know, decision-making in Europe, as far as your domain is concerned, is not self-executing. It is worth what it is worth if it is implemented in the different laws of the different Member States. I'd like to warn you about that. I refer to the attacks in London and Madrid, among others. Each time there was the same scene where ministers of the Interior came to argue for more Europe. And over and over again, it was precisely those who argued most strongly to move fastest, who had failed to transpose what had been decided in their own Member State after six months or a year. We must be very vigilant about this. We as a Member State must sometimes be able to go faster than Europe and we must at least implement what is decided at European level. It is, of course, an international challenge. There is also the temptation to limit, even close, borders to say that we would do better if we concentrated and mobilized all our resources in our own country. No, of course an international approach applies. It also transcends the European Union. Recently, in the Advisory Committee on European Affairs, I heard that Interpol has 80% of all information coming from four countries, including the Netherlands, Germany and Australia. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this means that many countries simply refuse to share the information with us. The United States has no confidence in many of the systems being devised in Europe. The United States is looking for bilateral cooperation; they decide which countries they want to do business with because they trust them and they decide which countries they want to do business with to a lesser extent. If they transfer information to a particular EU anti-terror service, they assume that this information will go everywhere and they do not want it. I can illustrate this in the light of what we have been through, including the OCAD principle. In Belgium, it is a legal obligation to share information, whether it is with the police, the security of the State or the military intelligence service, through the OCAD, under penalty of sanctions. When the British heard that we had set up such a system, they refused to give us any more information, because they claimed that the information they gave to Belgian State security would then circulate and go wherever they did not want it to end up. There is therefore a great distrust of share their information in some countries. We must work on this bilaterally, and we must take confidence-building measures to ensure that those countries that are selective today in providing information can be encouraged to do more about it. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say a few words about the Belgian apparatus. I will not be derogatory about that, quite the contrary. I think we have a rather complex system of police and intelligence services. Sometimes that's what people are looking at. Some argue in favour of throwing everything together and others argue in favour of placing State Security Services with the police forces. I believe that intelligence is best kept out of the police. This diversity and complexity need not be a handicap, provided that the information can circulate smoothly. I believe that our people deserve praise, and I agree with the congratulations on the situation in Verviers. I would like to say, Ministers, that in my view the analysis of a threat level is not a political matter. We used to have the Intelligence and Security College and the Ministerial Intelligence and Security Committee. That they want to call it "safety council" for me, but the principle is the same. They place the head of State Security, the boss of the federal police and the boss of military intelligence around one table, work away the cultural differences and ensure that these people work together. If these people come to the analysis that a certain level of threat is in place, then, in my view, politics will only take note of that. I have never experienced that determining the level of threat could be the subject of political deliberation. It's like a patient who hears from the doctor that his temperature is 37 degrees, decides it's 38 degrees. I do not understand the added value of raising the threat level after all the competent people have sat around the table and have established that it is, for example, Level 3, or that it can go back to Level 2. This is not a political discussion for me. I would like to mention this because raising the threat level is a sine qua non for the deployment of military forces in certain cases. Again, just now, someone said to love blue as much as khaki. I like blue more. That has nothing to do with my party politics. I prefer blue on the street because, once again, the police there must be able to assume the first and often the last responsibility. I would like to conclude, Madam President, with a brief quote, to make it clear that I refuse to go along with a permanent state of alarm. "Angst devours the soul. " That's what the Israeli author David Grossman wrote. It's exactly that permanent sense of fear that the terrorists are aiming at. We must never give in to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u22	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a brief statement on behalf of my party. I will start wherever Mr Dewael has started. You've chosen a very good one-liner. We can also add that fear makes a society fall apart. I would also like to express my thanks to the President-in-Office of the Council on behalf of my group. From the opposition, we have asked a question which has been addressed decisively. In fact, we had suggested that we should have a quick debate on the measures which the government is putting forward in relation to the problems which affect us all. That also happened quickly, for which we thank you. In this respect, we would also like to thank the various committee chairmen. We have met for a debate on the political response of the government to the misery caused by the attacks in Paris and the foiled attack in Verviers. I congratulate all those who have made this possible and the police forces involved, Minister. The reason for our request for a quick meeting is our conviction that we need to speed up. We are convinced that the measures need a thorough democratic debate, with all the nuances involved. However, we are also convinced that we do not have a day to waste. You will not be unaware that we have already come forward with a number of proposals from spring 2013 with a number of mayors across party boundaries and the borders of majority and opposition to address the unrest we feel in our cities. It is therefore also everyone's responsibility for the previous and the present governments, which have not yet achieved some of the measures. However, let us not waste too much time on that discussion, but look ahead to what we need tomorrow. I hope that we will move very quickly towards broad democratic measures. I regret, however, that I have too often heard the terms 'the coming weeks and months' because of the ministers. I would add that, to my regret, I also hear too many fundamental comments, including from members of the majority, on government measures. I will not engage in that debate either. In any case, we are convinced that, together with all the democratic forces, we need a firm and drastic response to the cowardly threat of terror by a small group of radicals à la limite that threatens to break up our society. Colleagues, I've got to get it off my chest. Some of us, from different political parties, still underestimate the fear in the neighbourhoods. It is underestimated how many groups are affected by feelings of threat, fear and feeling uncomfortable anymore. You know where I live. I live in a metropolitan area, be it a small town in Flanders on the outskirts of the capital. Sociologically, my city is connected to a major city. I can assure you that unrest is increasing in neighbourhoods, streets and schools. The unrest is also increasing among policemen. I've been at my city police station for a very long time this morning. It is not obvious to have to operate permanently with a bulletproof vest. I read whole discussions in newspapers about how much such a cardigan should cost and what the delivery period is. Day in, day out having to function in tight regimes, wondering how to stand or move in a pinching costume, is not evident. This creates a certain fear. I would like to repeat here that the fear is mainly with the immigrant families. These families are threatened. Young immigrants are particularly threatened. Young people experience that in a short time there is an incredible outburst of incomprehension, prejudice and racism. That too is one of the elements. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why I would like to suggest that as politicians, we do not participate in this unrest. Sometimes words inject extra fear into society. I do not want to have any controversy about this, but I do not think it fits as a minister responsible for security, in a response to the drama in Paris, perhaps under the influence of emotions, explains that if it rains in Paris, it drips in Brussels. I believe this has its effect. I also believe that it will have its effect if a fellow mayor of the largest city in Flanders says that an attack is a matter of time and that it may happen in his city. I believe that it is even less appropriate in the present context for the mayor of the capital of Europe to declare that an attack in his city is inevitable. I would like to assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that this brings about something in society. This creates fear. It must be the ambition of all of us, at every level, to prove that, when all the politicians of the democratic parties get together, democracy is strong enough to put fear in the head. In any case, that is our appeal to all levels of policy, not just the federal ones. I understand that there is a debate in the Parliaments, especially in the Flemish, although it is important for me once again to be heard by mayors after two years. Well, I believe that we must work beyond the levels of policy, especially at the local level, which is expected to be so much, Minister. You are aware of the criticism of the circular letter "Foreign fighters', you referred to it. That's a confidential document, for Christ's sake. That's what it says: "Confidential for mayors and chiefs of police." This circular effectively identifies the problems of cooperation and defines the responsibilities at the local level too heavily. In any case, it will be the challenge for all of us, at all levels of policy, to have a firm answer as soon as possible to overcome that fear and thus create confidence. That is what a society can do, and we will have to do so, including with civil society, including the Muslim community itself. Let us now recognise them effectively and include them in security policy. The whole problem of the recognition of mosques and the recognition of their functioning is also an element in the debate, among many others. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude. As a group, we are ready and ready to debate, on the substance of each of the measures put forward, in the utmost serenity, with the arguments we have. We are even more willing to take responsibility where we can. However, I should like to say one more thing. If we want to control and reduce fear in the short term, which is absolutely our ambition, then this government will also have to support local governments. It is not normal for a city such as Maaseik, a small city whose mayor happens not to be in some parliament but which has been calling the alarm for months or even years, to receive zero euros from national security policy under the prevention and security contracts. That's not normal. If mayors take their responsibilities and point to deficits, then someone should jump in. This applies in general, despite the difficult budgetary context for which we understand. However, in the short term there will have to be an update for those cities that are struggling today, sitting on their gums and doing more than they can. They're doing more than they can. That should in any case be the thirteenth measure, taken together, but much has already been said about this, with much better cooperation between the judicial services and the police in the light of the control of people who are considered dangerous. I'll leave it at that. We remain ready to cooperate constructively from the opposition, but with the necessary criticalness. Let us conduct the political debate on the various measures with a sense of urgency and sereneness.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u23	Mr President, I would like to start by saying to Mr Dewael that when I listened to him, I was thinking about what Benjamin Franklin said at the time: "He who sacrifices freedom to security will have neither freedom nor security." At the time of the attacks in Paris, we were all shocked. We have all expressed our emotion, our indignation, our anger at this indiscriminate and gratuitous violence. And we have all, my group first, expressed our readiness to discuss and build together what will make it possible to put in place mechanisms to guarantee the safety of all. We had already said that during the attack at the Jewish Museum. Allow me here to deplore the fact that we are finally discussing a plan that was already in the majority agreement. We feel that, because we are all deeply affected as a woman or politician, we are wondering about our responsibility to rebuild, together, a space where we would all live in safety. But we deplore the fact that the debate is not really taking place, since the majority is asking us to support what, in short, is only its majority agreement. As if nothing had happened between the presentation of this agreement and today! And as if there were no lessons to learn to make this plan evolve! We, the environmentalists, will support and remain available for a real debate. And in that context, we will have a requirement, that of efficiency. We will not only improve the sense of security of our fellow citizens. But, admittedly, some proposals are being made, as they are only intended to improve this sense of security. We will work to improve the effective security of our citizens. In this regard, my group regrets the absence of some elements in this plan. Indeed, terrorism is men, and it is weapons. Recent news tells all analysts and we, politicians, that unfortunately our country produces and supplies both. However, there is nothing in your plan about the arms trade or the measures to be taken to empty the crucible that makes the bed for the recruitment of these jihadists. In this perspective and in the debate we will have on the texts as soon as they are on the table, my group will defend the idea of a global plan. We believe that there should be rapid consultation with other governments. For the sake of long-term effectiveness, a debate on prevention cannot be avoided within the framework of a comprehensive plan against terrorism because if we do not dry up the marsh in which religious radicalism develops, we will solve nothing and other terrorists will succeed the terrorists. At this stage, it is difficult to position ourselves clearly and definitively on the proposals that are on the table because they remain relatively general. I quote here Einstein who said that "madness is always to do the same thing and to expect a different result". We will keep this in mind when we talk about the measures you are working on. Yes! Let's get around the table! Let us think about new measures, but let us also agree to blow up the framework in which we are thinking. We need to update ourselves to understand what Alain Bauer, a French criminologist, calls "new terrorism". And the biggest evolution in cultural propagation and contamination is the Internet. Terrorists are always ahead of us. We need to bring our security services into the twenty-first century. It is difficult to make a final decision on the proposals that are on the table. Mr. Van Hecke will share with you a number of thoughts. As for me, I would like to make a few of them quickly. First of all, we would be happy to hear the first ones involved in these measures, i.e. the actors on the ground, about their needs, about their assessment of the tools that are currently in place and of which – that is true – we are not given any feedback on a positive or negative assessment. I would also like to point out that we will not be able to take a decision on some of the proposals on the table because the documents are not available. Mr Jambon, you are referring to the revision of the 2005 plan against radicalisation by telling us that this plan is secret. It's hard for me to imagine what we're going to debate. It's also true for the "Foreign Fighters" circular. My group has also sent you a letter asking, in preparation for these debates, to have this circular, which is still unknown. We understand and admit that there is a degree of secrecy and confidentiality so that things can happen calmly and without putting anyone in danger. But, in this context, do not ask us to approve measures on which we have no information. Finally, we want to be constructive in the discussions that are being announced. We will ensure that proportionality is fair. We will also ensure that the measures are effective. Indeed, if we can understand the symbolic aspect of certain measures on the table, we question their effectiveness in terms of the effective security of citizens. I am thinking in particular of the measure relating to the withdrawal of nationality. My colleague, Stefaan Van Hecke, will return to this point. Like security, respect for the privacy and fundamental rights of citizens is a fundamental value that environmentalists will defend in future debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u24	Mr President, Ministers, we are all aware that such events are undoubtedly leading to new policy initiatives. That's what everyone expects from a government. This is also expected from a Parliament. In such circumstances, there is a great danger that a number of new laws will soon be proposed, that new laws will be adopted quickly and that new initiatives will be taken, which may be wondering whether they really are necessary, whether they really should be, whether they should go too far and whether they are not an unauthorized breach of privacy and the foundations of the democratic rule of law. Even in the present times, it is important that Parliament and the government consider all decisions carefully and certainly keep calm when it comes to amending some fundamental laws. I repeat that we are open to discussing many measures. We want to conduct the debate constructively. We have also launched proposals ourselves. However, it is important to keep asking a number of crucial questions with each new measure. That will also be our review framework. I'll give you four questions. Firstly, can we not achieve the objective that we want to achieve with the present legal arsenal that we have at our disposal? Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time we have faced terrorist attacks. After 9/11, all European countries are faced with a lot of new legislation, mostly anti-terror legislation. That does not mean that there can be no adjustments and refinements. However, we must always consider whether we can't go on and start working on the arsenal that we have today. Secondly, if new initiatives are to be taken, we must ask ourselves whether the measures are effective. Will it help us achieve our goal? For example, we propose to take away identity cards or Belgian nationality. Will this proposal achieve the objective of reducing radicalisation and reducing the speed of people's migration? So we need to think very carefully about the measures, but also about the long-term effects that such measures can have. Thirdly, is the measure proportionate? Is she in proportion to what we want to fight or stop? This is again about the removal of Belgian nationality, to which I shall return shortly. It also concerns the criteria used to withdraw an identity card. Fourthly, does the measure not lead to unauthorized breaches of privacy? I am very pleased that there has been a lot of discussion on privacy during the debate today. After all, this means that the subject lives on a large number of parties. It is above all Parliament's job to ensure that this is done. In particular, we must ensure that this is done when it comes to the extension of the law on special detection methods, the exchange of passenger data or the exchange of information between different services mentioned in the seventh measure, which I shall return to later. In his introduction, Secretary of State Tommelein said that every measure would be reviewed. He's already had a conversation with the chairman of the Privacy Commission. Mr Secretary of State, I want to take your word for it and I also want to believe you. You are competent for Privacy and you pride yourself on being the only State Secretary in Europe with that competence. Well, if you say a, say b. This means that we expect an opinion from the Privacy Commission on every legislative initiative submitted here. Can we count on that? That committee can work a little faster too. If, on the one hand, you say that you will guard your privacy and, on the other hand, submit legislation without the advice of the Privacy Commission, that would not make sense. I also note that Open Vld blows hot and cold at the same time. I fully agree with Mr Dewael's great plea when he talks about the fundamental value of privacy. However, as an example, he says that we should not wait too long to exchange passenger data, that this measure should be pushed forward. However, there are just a lot of questions about this measure. We have no problem with the exchange of information on suspects, on people being followed. In particular, it concerns the question of whether we should post and exchange information on all passengers throughout Europe. We're going too far in that. We will have to have that discussion. The data needed to protect our country must be able to be exchanged and used, but a large part of the population has nothing to do with it and should not be indirectly affected by it. I now come to a few comments on the twelve proposals. I will not go over all twelve proposals, but I will stop for a moment with the third proposal, the withdrawal of nationality. Much has already been said about this, but in fact it remains very vague. A previous speaker has already said that this withdrawal is possible now, because the legislation already provides for the possibility of withdrawing nationality. A judge may rule on that measure where serious infringements or serious offences have been committed for which the person concerned has been convicted. That list of crimes is quite long and mentions, among other things, an attack on the king. Now we are discussing terrorist acts and also serious violations of international humanitarian law. Well, let us look at what is happening in Syria today and what the Syrian fighters are doing there. We are opposed to this. If a Syrian fighter were to be convicted here, it would fall under the law of terrorism and his actions would be serious violations of international humanitarian law. Our courts can withdraw nationality today if they want to. If the government says it wants to expand, I do not hear anyone say in what way we will expand it. What crimes will we add to that list in order to be able to take away nationality? We must be very careful in this, or we are touching on the important principle, which not only I have proposed, of the proportionality of the measure. Secondly, there is the question of whether such a measure is effective. Do we really think that anyone who wants to leave, who wants to fight, who intends to attack, will be deterred if the government and Parliament decide to take nationality even more easily? Honestly, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think so. This measure will not be effective. A third thought is a fairly legal one which we will also have to take into account, because there are still the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights. Will we not also be at risk of treating people unequally? Those who have a dual nationality may receive the additional penalty for losing nationality, but those who have only one nationality cannot, of course, lose it. That has also been made clear. That is something we must take care of. I think this is an example of a more symbolic approach. This is a symbolic element in the list of twelve measures. I have heard other group leaders argue that they do not want symbol legislation. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I fear that we are faced with an example of symbol legislation here. A second measure is the withdrawal of the identity card. That's hard. On the one hand, there is the demand of many concerned parents for the government to do something, to work out something that does not allow their children to go abroad so easily. That is good, but we must ensure that checks are carried out effectively at airports. We can decide what we want, we have seen the examples of young people taking a plane without a cat crow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u25	Can I have the floor by order? A cat doesn't crow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u26	A rooster, excuse me. I can tell you're listening very carefully. Especially when it comes to cocks, you're vigilant. Minister, people who are really convinced, whether they are minors or adults, who really want to fight, will probably find another way to get there. It will be a little more difficult, but we will not stop the real ones with that either. Above all, I find it difficult to describe what is already being said. If it says that the review will take place on the basis of the risk to public order or security, I say that we must pay attention. I know that the aim is to stop fighters, but if a risk to public order and security is a condition to withdraw an identity card, a lot of citizens can withdraw the identity card. I think that's dangerous. I am not saying that you will, Minister, but if we use that notion in the law, I think it is far too broad and leaves room for abuse. Minister, I see you nodding in agreement. I think you're aware of that, too. At the same time, I think it is very difficult to find an exact description when doing so. I find that description very dangerous, should it be approved. But then you say something very special. You also know, of course, what the problem is when an identity card is taken away. People must have an identity card in their pocket and then you say you will provide an alternative card. That's gonna be interesting, because what are you doing? You take someone's identity card, but you give something else instead, an identity card light. They are sometimes needed. They cannot be used abroad, but they can be used for certain purposes. This means that anyone who has such an identity card light in their pocket will receive a stamp. Everywhere he goes, for example in the library or the town hall, and presents that card, one will know that he is someone whose identity card was withdrawn. Try applying for a job. It will be believed that this is a suspected Syrian fighter who has received an alternative identity card. Minister, I do not know whether that is a good measure. Will you not cause more frustration to the people whose identity card has been taken from? The question also arises as to what happens after that withdrawal. I don't hear anything about that. How long is this withdrawal going to take? Months, years? Who will carry out an external check on this? Can we appeal against this? If we are not careful when introducing such a measure, we have left for a story where we do not know where it will end and that will also cause a lot of frustration. In certain circumstances, it may be a useful measure, for example to prevent impulsive drivers, but let us also pay close attention to the possible consequences of the withdrawal of an identity card and of the replacement by an alternative. At first I did not intend to talk about this third element, but the explanation I have just heard concerns me. I turn to you for that, Minister of Justice. It concerns the seventh measure, the exchange of information. I thought the exchange of information between police and intelligence services took place under certain conditions, but I heard you say that information from a judicial investigation will be exchanged with administrative authorities. So you announce that the secret of the judicial investigation will be lifted for certain cases. We will then be affected by a number of essential provisions of the democratic rule of law. It is not because your name is mentioned in a judicial investigation, that you are guilty. You haven't been charged yet. We will already pass the data on to all kinds of administrative authorities that will use it. Quid if at some point the council chamber says that one has been dismissed because there has been a mistake? I hope that this information will be passed on soon. We are touching something very fundamental there, Minister. You went very fast. I may have to wait and see the texts to see exactly what this is about, but I have interpreted it as a breach of the secret of the judicial investigation. That's how you explained it. I believe that we are dealing here with an exception legislation, something for which group leaders of the majority parties have warned. They said it should not be symbolic legislation. It must not be exceptional legislation. We already have symbol laws. If what you are proposing is also introduced, then it is clearly an exception legislation, which has a very fundamental impact on our current judicial system. As far as the army is concerned, we can say a great deal about that. I can only say that at certain times there may be circumstances in which it is inevitable to call in the aid of the army, but I think that we should be particularly careful with that. It must be the ultimate cure. What I see now is an apple: let the army come, we need it. The risk of a false sense of safety is growing. Even more, the feeling of insecurity will increase, because many citizens feel just anxious when they see heavily armed soldiers in the street. The question is therefore whether it is an effective measure. Will that stop attacks? It is not possible to check whether tests are being carried out, but if terrorists want to strike, they may choose another target, where there are no military. I'm having a hard time with it. If this measure is to be applied, it must be done very temporarily and in very exceptional circumstances. Today we are going far too far with the use of military forces. I would also like to thank the Minister for Defence for replying to my question in his introduction, which I will not repeat. Colleagues, I'm finishing up. Parliament must be very vigilant about the texts that will be submitted. I have only given a few examples of problems that may arise. Opinions of the Council of State and of the Privacy Committee in the field of privacy are essential. Those bodies should do their job and perhaps, if necessary, work a little faster. However, Parliament must not be allowed to be haunted. For fundamental changes to criminal law and legislation that has an impact on our privacy, we need to take the time to deal with them thoroughly. The laws adopted will not be lifted after a month or six months. Many of these laws will continue to exist for years, until they may one day be evaluated. I have not often seen such laws being abolished after a few years. We must therefore be careful when drafting new legislation in this area. There is also a great deal of uncertainty about many measures. We must watch over symbol legislation and the exceptional legislation. That's our job. If the measures are good, Ministers, then we will also support them. If we have problems with something, we will also say it and try together to find alternatives or amendments to solve the problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u27	Mr President, Madam President, Ministers, thank you for your briefing. On behalf of my group, I would like first of all to thank all the speakers in the "security chain", not only for the operations carried out in recent days but also for the future. It is known that many people are mobilized, including police, military, magistrates, members of the intelligence services, and OCAM. There are a number of people who are at the service of the population, sometimes at the risk of their lives and often in extremely sensitive missions. On behalf of my group, I would like to thank them again, encourage them in their missions and congratulate them for the excellent cooperation in the operations carried out. My group would also like to welcome the federal government's willingness to take the fight against radicalism and the adoption of measures to combat radical movements more effectively. We will support various measures proposed today, with the clarifications that we will still need to obtain and assess: the freezing of assets, specific investigative measures, enhanced coordination of security bodies, protection missions, etc. Despite what some may have said, we note that many of these measures are in line with what was previously developed by the government, with which we must say – as we often said at the time – three measures that we would have liked to see included in the programme of the previous government, but our request had not been supported, namely the three bills that we tabled before the Paris attacks, with Georges Dallemagne. The Prime Minister called very clearly for unity, to go beyond the majority/opposition divide. Very quickly, we said we would respond to this call. However, we too have made an appeal. Our proposals are on the table; they are almost comparable to the measures proposed by the government today. Let's take them and study them! Let us not wait until mid-February to eventually vote on these proposals in Parliament. They are not only on the table, but they are very well thought out with regard to the protection of rights and efficiency. I'll come back. I reiterate my call to the government to accept that we organize this work very quickly. Beyond the measures strictly dedicated to security, it is essential to take other measures that relate to prevention, at all levels of power. It is in this sense that the federated entities are also working on a plan to combat radicalism. I quote Gilles de Kerchove: "It is by playing on the palette of prevention, law enforcement, and on the international dimension, that we will try as much as possible to prevent this from happening again." The project of the CDH is that of an open and plural society. In the medium and long term, we all know that it is not the only security measures that are decisive, even if they are indispensable and essential. Long before the attacks, during the budget review, we denounced the significant budget cuts that are affecting certain services: the police, the judiciary, the OCAM. The Minister of the Interior and Security will remember that at the beginning of December, I said that we could not make the fight against terrorism a priority without giving us the means to do so. Putting everyone under the same regime is not a priority from the moment when budget cuts are decided in a linear way. Since then, I hope there has been some awareness. Beyond the necessary resources, it is essential first of all to increase the security budgets – that is, the police, the justice system and the OCAM – to their 2014 level. I come to another point which we had pinned and which we had spoken about in the Committee on the Interior long before the attacks. We note that no concrete measures relating to the Internet have been adopted. We know that this is the vehicle for recruitment, but it is also the propagation of hateful and radical statements. A European programme has developed. The Prime Minister said he would have contacts in Davos with Google. We would like to see something much more tangible, targeting all means of telecommunication – WhatsApp, Skype, Facebook, Youtube, etc. That seems essential to us. The question of anonymity on the Internet is also an essential question for us. We will most likely have to think about it. It is currently very easy to take a pseudo and "balance" – excuse me for the term a little trivial – everything you can "balance" because you hide behind someone else. This question will have to be considered. In a slightly more focused way, allow me to take up the measures that you propose one by one, at least the most important ones. The National Security Council, of course, we support it because it is more of a question of coordination. One simply wonders why it takes so long to set up an organ that otherwise existed under another name, the Security College. Patrick Dewael, it seems to me, also threw a small paving stone into the pond. We regret that it is the National Security Council, that is, the political level, which decides, yes or no, to raise the level of threat. We believe objectively that the OCAM is the body empowered to do so. We would therefore like clarification. As far as the army is concerned, we are not formally opposed to the army being on the streets. Simply, as we have said and reiterated, let us first equip the police with the means they need to ensure these protections! That's his job. With 177 million euros in savings on the police, including 40 million for police areas, how can the police carry out its security missions? So yes to the army in the event of a very exceptional and temporary situation, but first by providing the police with the means they need to carry out all the tasks assigned to them. I come to the various proposals that are a bit of a debate today: the deprivation of nationality, withdrawal and mercenary law. As far as mercenary law is concerned, our text is almost the same as what you are going to file. We do not yet have the texts, but in any case the main ideas seem to be similar. The difference is that we have limited the text to Iraq and Syria, but we are eventually ready to talk more broadly. We thought that a very clear signal should be given on Iraq and Syria, knowing that more comprehensively the provisions could be extended to other areas of conflict. As far as the proposal on the deprivation of nationality is concerned, I am somewhat surprised to hear some comments and I think that the notions are not very well understood. Currently, there is already a deprivation of nationality, when some people face a criminal conviction through a judge, commit terrorist offences - commit them! Our text provides for other offences related to terrorism, other than the commission of offences, but which are propaganda, recruitment, incitement, etc. We include these offences in our text in the deprivation of nationality. We are therefore not amending anything, because Belgian legislation already provides for deprivation of nationality and it only provides for persons who have not been born in Belgium. We do not change it in any way, but we can continue in this direction. No one around this table will find it striking that we mention the "new terrorist offences" as a possibility of reaching a demise, of course by not changing the framework. We can, of course, talk about the deprivation of nationality in a comprehensive manner, but this is not the place now, since this measure already exists. Of course, it does not concern persons who have only one nationality or those born here in Belgium. If we could make progress in this area, we will be at the side of the government in the framework I have just described. We have devised a system based on a judge's discretion. When the judge convicts for an offence of two to five years, he or she has discretion. He or she may or may not have his or her criminal conviction revoked. After five years, we have provided for automaticity, because we consider that the offence is serious enough for the judge to be obliged to order the deprivation of nationality. According to the press, this text has some floats. The CDH text can, in any case, serve as a basis for meeting an objective and preserving a number of rights to which we are all attached. With regard to the withdrawal of travel documents and identity cards, the Minister of the Interior recalled that there was already a possibility in the Consular Code to withdraw passports. As some speakers have asked why nothing had been done before, and since jurisdiction falls under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the minister in charge of that department was already doing so under the previous legislature, I ask why this possibility, which already exists in the Consular Code, has not been used. For our part, we plan to withdraw the identity card because it is the only travel document required to travel to Turkey in particular. The mechanism we are advocating is not the same as the government's. The various speakers said that they wanted to discuss the issue, but that it needed to be the responsibility of the judiciary. That's what we're planning. In doing so, we do not lose efficiency. A mayor or police zone that is the best informed, the most in contact with the people warns the king's prosecutor who has 15 days to "investigate" the case. Is there a real suspicion? Is there a real radicalization? Once this period has expired, it is the juvenile judge for minors or the judge of first instance for adults who decides whether or not to withdraw identity documents for six months. According to our proposal, the judge intervenes at all stages of the proceedings. Thus, we do not lose in efficiency while having the guarantee of the intervention of the judiciary. We therefore invite the government to learn about it and eventually to learn from it. Having said that, I am sensitive to the question that has been raised as to whether there will be different identity documents for those with whom there is suspicion. If that were the case, the latter could be castigated. Would it not be technically possible for the travel ban to appear on the ID chip and thus be invisible to the general public? In other words, information taken from this chip would make it clear that a person cannot travel, but the identity document would be the same for everyone. So I think I've taken a look at the flagship measures. I would remind you that we have drafted proposals which could serve as a basis for future texts. They were well thought out and tabled on January 5. We've been thinking about it for weeks or even months. When she was Minister of the Interior, Milquet had proposed them in April 2013. Unfortunately, at the time, she did not receive government support. We therefore decided to resubmit these texts at the beginning of January. We hope that they will be discussed and voted on. What matters to us is not to be at the origin of these texts, but to be effective and to provide greater security for the entire population. With regard to prisons, we have heard the proposed measures. Prisons are known to be a breeding ground for radical ideas. Therefore, it is essential to take measures to avoid this phenomenon. For us, the isolation of preachers alone is not enough. There is a need for a wide range of investment measures in prisons, such as psychosocial and religious actions, as well as the use of psychologists who specialize in deradicalization. There is a need to increase the number of psychosocial workers in prisons, as well as the number of Muslim chaplains, trained and controlled by the State Security. Important resources will therefore be needed to de-radicalize at the prison level. In addition, in our view, there are shortcomings in the plan with regard to radicalism on the Internet; I have already addressed this subject. In short, we do not have enough clarity about the budget. We have heard of an interdepartmental provision of 300 million. For the police alone, there are currently 177 million missing, to be at the 2014 level. However, for all the complementary missions that you have just described and which we support in part, we need resources. The budget remains an essential element. A second essential point is the need to go one step further on the Internet and "start the first one", because we know that it is the place par excellence of propaganda, recruitment, but also a vehicle of anti-democratic speech that allows some people to hide in anonymity. So, in summary, this is what I wanted to tell you about the measures presented by the government. As I said in the introduction, our group will support the government whenever it is necessary to fight radicalism. We have reached out on several occasions, proposing to build on existing texts; it will then be very easy to move forward in a consensus of national unity on the basis of texts that make the difference between, on the one hand, efficiency and, on the other hand, the protection of rights. We really invite you to become aware of the budgetary issues and expect clear answers regarding the adjustment of the budget and the revision of the means. Philippe Goffin, Chair: Each group had the opportunity to speak and ask a lot of questions. We suggest that you empty the remaining questions that have not yet been addressed, which will allow the government to answer all the questions. Among the parliamentarians still present whose questions are on the agenda, some still wish to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u28	Madam and gentlemen, ministers, a word of congratulations and thanks to the officials who have accomplished their mission very recently, who have long been trained to do so. As you mentioned, Mr. Chairman, I have a few specific questions. Finance is well needed to equip and continue to work well at the security services level. How are you going to reconcile your wish with the statements made this morning by the Budget Minister who told us that the EUR 300 million reserve is already allocated, and that he even had the opportunity to allocate them several times with requests already registered? With regard to the use of the army, the Socialist Party is not opposed to it under very limited conditions, with recourse to the mayor, for a limited period of time, for buildings to be protected – it is not a question of walking or patrolling the streets. I even asked him as the mayor of Liège. But should it be considered that terrestrial forces are now the substitute for the general reserve? The general reserve of the integrated police force is being reduced and we do not see how, in the current circumstances, you will repopulate this general reserve. Should we consider that the army has become the general reserve for certain particular circumstances? Could you clarify the protocol with respect to costs? What department are they assigned to in this case? What are the burdens at the level of cities and municipalities? Finally, how do we arbitrate a divergent opinion from the National Security Council and the mayors concerned? Let us imagine that the National Security Council advocates the use of the army and that the mayor is opposed to it under difficult circumstances, or vice versa. How does it work? With regard to all projects relating to the loss of nationality, how can you reconcile this option with the fact that it will be essential to count on the Belgian community of Muslim origin to solve the problem? We will not settle it with the police. To settle it sustainably, our compatriots of foreign origin will have to help us or even make the clearest way. I therefore draw your attention to this possible contradiction: how can we overcome it? On the overall policy to be pursued, I believe that it must be balanced, comprehensive, integrated and aimed at social cohesion, because this social cohesion we are seeking is an element of prevention. In this regard, I would like to know how you intend to establish this comprehensive and integrated policy with all the entities that make up our country, that is, the Communities and the Regions for prevention, but also the provinces and cities and municipalities. The goal is to build on local expertise to learn how to deal with problems on the ground. In fact, policies are developing in a given territory, under the responsibility of the mayors. To conclude with my specific questions, Mr.President, I would like to add that we have had a level of alert, but targeted at some institutions, and now it is extended to the entire territory. In fact, the local authorities do not have a declination of this measure, they do not have a catalogue of measures to implement. For the time being, they are being worked out in consultation within a zonal security council or in a local development consultation. Do you not think that in the future a protocol of measures should be drawn up which would correspond, at the local level, to the measures to be taken when we are at level 3 and, a fortiori, at level 4? In this regard, do you not think that it would be appropriate to consult local officials, mayors and governors?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u29	Madam President, I would also like to thank the Ministers for their presentation. This is, of course, a very complex problem. I believe that we really need an integrated approach, as my group chairman has just said. We must therefore work on repression, but we must, of course, also work on prevention. Safety plays a crucial role in this. Security, of course, means the security of our citizens and of our institutions. This is an important and delicate matter. To ensure our security, we have our police and security services, as well as our intelligence services. The role of the OCAD is incredibly important for the definition of the threat level, Minister, and for the decision to deploy the military. The risk analysis is a task for the OCAD and for our intelligence services. I do not believe that we should give this task to others, to other institutions, and certainly not to politicians. My question, Minister for the Interior, is exactly what this is about. The protocol on this subject is not clear and can be interpreted in different ways. Apparently, the level can be raised or reduced on the basis of an opinion from the National Security Council. Can you clarify that? Who has the last word in determining and capturing the threat level? This brings me to the second aspect, the deployment of military forces. Our group has indicated that this is not a sustainable solution and that we must first of all consider how police forces can be strengthened. We need to look at what measures are needed at police level. Madam President, this brings me to my final point. We have also talked about prevention. Although many of the competences in this area belong to the Communities and the Regions, I would like to ask the Minister for the Interior the more general question as to whether he has already consulted the Regions and the Communities on prevention. If not, are you planning consultations in the near future? We all know that Flanders is doing this, as are the other regions. Minister, since 1998 there have been strategic security and prevention contracts for municipalities with more than 30 000 inhabitants. I believe that we can refer in this respect to the security plans and the operatives relating to the Community guards. We have just said that we are going for a chain approach. The Regions and the Communities must also participate in this. We need to work together in different areas. Have any concrete steps been taken in this respect? If not, do you intend to include this point with the Regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u30	Mr President, I would like to ask two questions. A few days ago, I was able to read in the press that the plan to use the army in prisons had been mentioned by the government to strengthen prison officers and to monitor, instead of guards, isolated jihadist suspects. Is that info or intoxication? If it's information, what about the government's thinking on the subject? How would it be relevant to see military personnel in prisons? As far as military personnel carrying out police missions were concerned, my group leader said earlier, terrorism feeds on fanaticism but also on our fears. When I see the first soldiers on the streets, I wonder about the disproportion of their equipment with regard to the missions they have to carry out. Is this also the subject of reflection? I am surprised to see MPs performing more traditional functions, such as the safety of our institution, which is a sensitive place, not being protected by a bulletproof vest.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u31	Mr President, I will be brief, because many questions have already been asked on behalf of our group. I would like to make a comment and put a question, following on from a question that has already been asked by many fellow Members. I understand that last Friday the OCAD gave the advice to bring the threat level from 2 to 3, specifically for a number of designated places in our country. Apparently, that threat level 3 intended for specific places was overruled by the government on the same day or evening and extended to the whole territory. In addition, I have the next thought. In my opinion, the OCAD is made up of specialists and focuses on the safety of our country. Can we be clarified as to why this threat level was extended to the whole of the territory? With this question, I would like to add my thoughts to one of the measures that has already been formulated by a number of fellow Members. We are talking about the National Security Council. I wonder whether the right level of threat in our country should be decided at political level. That question has already been asked, and I would also like to ask it on behalf of our group. My second question is actually a very practical question to the Minister for Defence, Mr Vandeput. Some soldiers have already been deployed and they are still being deployed. I also think I have heard that several other military personnel are still being trained. How many soldiers are we talking about? How long is this training going to take? What exactly does this training consist of? I wanted to ask those additional questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u32	Minister, I shall speak very briefly. With regard to radicalism in prison, the government's choice was clearly to bring these detainees together in two places, one French-speaking and another Dutch-speaking. Are institutions already selected? I guess it's not a defense secret. It is the government's choice, which has its logic. We're not going to discuss it now. Last Monday, La Dernière Heure referred to the role of military guards. I don't know if this information is correct. In any case, gentlemen of the Ministers of Defence and of the Interior, reference was made to a note dated 9 December last, prior to the facts before us this evening. In view of the national strike of 15 December, the document referred to the presence of the army in prisons to replace strike guards, instead of local or federal police officers. This may be of interest, as police forces would work in the field rather than being occupied for thousands of hours in prisons, where they do not belong. I'm not convinced it's more of the army's. Still, I would like some clarification from the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u33	First of all, I would like to thank everyone for the presentations and, above all, for the serenity in which the debate has been held so far. I would particularly like to thank the opposition parties for their very constructive attitude in the debate. We do not agree on everything, but I think we agree that we will have to find the broadest possible consensus for the projects we are going to come to Parliament with. I think that the people also expect us to close ranks on the issue as much as possible and that we would not play the game of majority and opposition in its most flattering form. I therefore thank you, on behalf of the government, for the constructive attitude. I will answer the various questions within my competence by trying to deal with all the topics covered. First, Mrs Onkelinx was the first to discuss the level of threat, but several speakers spoke on the subject. When we talk about the level of threat, so far it is the OCAM and only the OCAM that determines this level. On Thursday night, the OCAM reached a level 3 in two phases. OCAM first set Level 2 and decreed a level 3 threat for sensitive locations and police offices. Later in the evening, with the new information in its possession, the OCAM decided, and it alone, in strict compliance with the law, to decree level 3. Of the 12 measures presented, we propose an amendment to the OCAM law, namely that in very specific cases – we will have to state which ones in the bill – the government can, after the advice of the National Security Council, increase the level of threat by one step. I realize that this is being discussed. Many things will depend on how we describe special situations. A number of speakers, including Mrs Onkelinx, have asked for a description. I endorse that question. A plan with the concrete deployment of troops army and police and resources per level of threat, so for levels 1, 2, 3 and 4, there is no such thing as a plan. If it already exists, it is in a very rough form and I believe that we need a more planned description. We must also be aware of what resources are needed. It can be described, but one must of course also know what means are in favour of it. I agree with the need to intervene with regard to the Internet. Here too, it's complicated. A significant balance must be struck between Internet observation and intervention in very serious cases and freedom of expression. To this end, a meeting organized by the United States will be held in February. US and European Home Affairs Ministers will meet with Internet companies such as Google, YouTube, WhatsApp, etc. not to decide but to see what can be done at the highest level in these companies. This meeting will take place in February and it is on a voluntary basis that I want to report to the Committee on the Interior what will be discussed there. As far as identity cards are concerned, Mr Van Hecke, I share many of the reservations you have expressed about this measure. I do not want to say that we will put that measure aside, but it is clear that it can only be applied in very clear cases and when there is a very high degree of certainty that someone can be dangerous. One extreme is to allow the identity card to be retained in all circumstances. The other extreme is to take away the identity card and give it a different card, for example with a different color, but that is culpabilisating. We must therefore look at the level of suspicion from which we apply this measure. Failure to do so, however, also entails major dangers. If one deals too loosely and too freely with this measure, then one culpabilises where it is not necessary. We must therefore describe very clearly when this measure can be taken. That is why we have also said that it must always be done in conjunction with the federal court. I agree with you that the measure involves a number of dangers or risks associated with culpabilisation. I am aware of that. We must therefore clearly define the cases in which application is possible. Mr Verherstraeten, you have asked about the budget for the deployment of Defense. At the moment, that's hard to determine. We do not yet know how long level 3 is being held. The level is set by the OCAD for a week to 3. If that is withdrawn in a few days, the military will return to the barracks. We have, however, allocated a provisional budget to the Home Office to cover these costs. It is only about variable costs, by the way. Funds have been allocated for this purpose. Will that be enough? I can't estimate that right now. It depends on how long we stay on level 3. After a month, we will evaluate the measure, Minister Vandeput, and then we will be able to send the military back to the barracks. Whether to extend the measure. All these parameters determine the size of the budget. For the time being, however, a budget has been provided for. There is a suggestion about the multitude of databases. I'm facing that, too. This is one of the measures: to streamline the storage of information in order to bring a little more coherence into today's aim. Mr Dewael, I have just given you the answer on the level of threat. Mrs Matz, as far as the Internet is concerned, I have proposed it and the overall budget too. You have heard on several occasions that the government – it has explained through the Prime Minister – intends to allocate a reasonable sum of $300 million to security. For the moment, I have asked various departments of the interior and justice to prepare a note with their specific needs. It will be a basic document for the preparation of the budget. Mr Demeyer, you mentioned the multilevel approach. We are talking about the municipalities, the Communities, the federal state and Europe, associated with the United States for certain things. For consultation between the Communities, the Prime Minister has already announced an initiative and will bring them together around the table. With regard to local authorities, we will review the circular on the responsibilities of local and federal authorities. In my opinion, and I think that all the mayors are of the same opinion, too much weight rests on the local authorities. We need to review this and this is foreseen in the revision of the circular on the foreign fighters forum. With regard to the plan by threat level, I also subscribe to it. Mr Top, I have already answered your question on the OCAD. Mr Yüksel, prevention is mainly seen in the Communities. An initiative has been announced by the Federal Government and we will soon be sitting with the Communities on the table to align the plans. Minister None, you were gone when Mr Brotcorne asked which prisons we had chosen; that is a question for you. That is what I think I have answered all the questions concerning internal affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u34	I believe that a first question addressed to me came from Mrs Onkelinx concerning the wanted young man wearing an electronic bracelet. I believe that this happened: the individual in question appeared in the files of persons identified as dead after the Verviers incidents on Friday night. Consequently, on Friday evening, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office had an international arrest warrant issued to the police, like all the others. At that time, things were so urgent that we didn't control if this gentleman wasn't under judicial control, we didn't have the time. The reason this gentleman wears a bracelet has nothing to do with terrorism; it is a minor offence for which he was imprisoned for three months, between August and November. He was released from Forest Prison with bracelet on 24 November. It is not to be excluded, but it has nothing to do with its international signage, that the police were not aware that this gentleman was wearing a bracelet. Indeed, prison data banks (SIDIS) are not connected to police data (ANG). There's no connection. The government agreement and my statement of political orientation call for such a connection. In principle, the prison must notify the police by fax that an individual is wearing an electronic bracelet – this is usually the case. This fax was not sent. But you have to know that there are so many rotations in Forest Prison that it is extremely difficult. In any case, the police may consult the data banks of the Prison Service. The person concerned was thus arrested to return to prison. But I repeat that there is no connection between the data banks. For information purposes, connecting them would cost 200,000 euros. Mr President, I understand that we must not answer the questions of Members who are not present. Philippe Goffin, president: Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u35	I am always told that I must inform Parliament as fully as possible! Philippe Goffin, president: That's what you're doing today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u36	The second difficult issue before me is that of nationality. The withdrawal of nationality is already possible for a long time for simply failing to fulfil the duty of a citizen and, a fortiori, for conviction for a terrorist offence for persons who receive Belgian nationality without having been born in Belgium on the basis of their good integration and their connection with Belgium. The Law of 4 December 2012 amended the Code of Belgian nationality. Article 23/1 of the Belgian Code provides for the possibility of withdrawing nationality for persons convicted of terrorist offences. Just so we're clear, it's the criminal court that decides this sanction optionally. It is not a mandatory additional penalty and it is the criminal court that appreciates whether it is necessary. No separate procedure is required; this is done in the context of normal criminal proceedings. The coalition agreement provides for these possibilities to be extended, but it does not specify the scope of enlargement. Different criteria will be taken into account. The list of offences which may give rise to the withdrawal of nationality in the context of terrorism does not yet contain the new terrorist offences identified by the Act of 18 February 2013. The aim is to include the offences from that law in the list of offences which may be sanctioned by the lapse of nationality. I now move on to the period between obtaining nationality and committing the crime. At present, the withdrawal of nationality depends on the fact that the crime was committed within ten years of naturalisation. The intention is to drop this period and therefore no longer to set a minimum period for obtaining nationality. The staff scope of Article 23/1 of the nationality law poses particular problems if one wishes to extend the decline of nationality beyond those who can currently be sanctioned. We are currently studying that point. Indeed, the Government Agreement provided for the extension of the possibility of deprivation of nationality also as regards persons who might be subject to it. Kern confirmed this will. At the moment, the question under consideration is to what extent this is possible, not in terms of opportunity, but in terms of legality. This means that, as a first step, we are studying the issue from the point of view of the legality of this enlargement. You may know that a 2009 ruling of the Constitutional Court has already answered the question of discrimination, i.e. whether this discrimination could be justified in the context of the comparison of naturalised persons, on the one hand, and Belgian persons by origin, on the other. The Constitutional Court has upheld this discrimination. But it is obvious that in this case, in order to broaden further, we would no longer speak of naturalised persons but of persons who by birth are Belgian. So, for now, we are studying the issue further from this point of view. We will inform you of the outcome of these deliberations in due course, when we introduce the bill. I should like to comment on questions relating to the wiretap. It is clear that we will increase the possibility of listening, but the services are also working on a more general assessment of the special detection methods, as provided for in the coalition agreement. This work was already under way, but will now be accelerated. It concerns in particular the adaptation of the legal framework to new technical developments that need to be discussed with operators and service providers, for example in order to decrypt certain encrypted communications. For the sake of clarity, that is not part of the twelve measures proposed by the government. I understand that not everyone agrees with an expansion of terrorist offences to travel abroad for terrorist purposes. Nevertheless, we believe that this enlargement is preferable to an enlargement of the "mercenaries" law, as it relates rather to armed conflicts rather than terrorism. That is why we are of the opinion to extend the penalty to travel, but of course when it comes to terrorist purposes. Then Mr Brotcorne asks me if any military personnel will be involved in the prisons. My plan to combat radicalization in prisons does provide for the creation of two specialized sections for the most radicalized prisoners, who cannot be kept safe among the rest of the prison population. This measure goes hand in hand with a qualitative and specialized supervision of these detainees. For the time being, my administration is considering two sites for the installation of these prisons, but it seems premature to indicate them. In any case, one would be in the north of the country, the other in the south.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u37	Mr President, I have noticed that a number of people, including Mr Van Hecke, share my concerns and those of the government in terms of privacy. Mr Van Hecke, you tried to suggest some contradiction, but I can assure you that there is no contradiction. The coalition agreement is also clear, and we are seeking an international solution. It is also clear within the government that we prefer a European approach, whereby we want Europe to reach decisions on the exchange of PNR data as soon as possible. PNR data are passenger data collected by commercial airlines, including for commercial purposes. So they are not primarily intended to solve the problems we face. This means that these PNR data are not used for the identification of persons, because they are not officially verified data. In addition, there are the API data, which is something else: then you get the biographical information that is taken from the identity cards machine. That is, of course, something that would help us much further. Since 2011, efforts have been made to obtain such a system for the European Union. In itself, there is no problem in collecting national data today, that is possible. The United Kingdom does that. Countries can conclude bilateral agreements in order to enter into an exchange, and we do not really need to wait for Europe to do so. But, of course, that is my concern, given that uncontrolled or less controlled information will then be provided, the level of protection of privacy of what those countries do bilaterally, with a further exchange between other countries, is in any case lower than the system that is being built up in Europe, with guarantees of privacy in a number of areas, which are therefore the same for all countries. That system can provide us with useful information. In fact, I was the first to send a signal last week, in consultation with the government and even before the anti-terrorist action in Verviers, that Europe had to do this. In the meantime, we know that Europe is working on this. There's another discussion going on. They also asked the European Court for clarification on a number of cases. I agree with the Minister of the Interior and the leader of my own party. If we have to wait for Europe and then have to implement it, there is obviously a delay. There is nothing to prevent us from initially taking a number of measures at national level to implement the European system at a later stage. The only thing I am saying very clearly, and that is also the signal I have given, is that the privacy monitoring also applies. It is normal that we in Europe with 28 countries do not get out immediately when it comes to a number of privacy issues. In the Council of Europe, too, national Member States raise concerns. However, this does not mean that we in Belgium should not take too much of these privacy measures. It is clear that there are doubts, for example about the retention period, about proportionality, about finality, about the method of exchange. People don't just go there about a night of ice cream. It is not intended that all travellers should be filtered or in suspicious circumstances. We must do this with due care. I think we are all on the same page here. We're in favour of the exchange of passenger manifests. I also think that no sensible person in this country would say that we should not do this. I haven't met a single citizen who thinks it's crazy that we're keeping track of who's on a plane and who's flying where. That's the logic itself. When a plane crashes, we ask for the passenger list first, we want to know who was on that plane. We do not understand if we do not immediately know who was on that plane. I also believe that it is absolutely necessary to examine who is travelling to where. I believe that we are all convinced of this. If it takes too long in Europe, we must move faster. We must take the same measure, or it must certainly pass the same privacy test. When dealing with two or three countries, it is logical that it should take place on a different basis than when twenty-eight countries provide clear, transparent and standardised information. Mr Van Hecke, you ask that everything be checked against privacy. I can confirm that I do. However, if you ask me to ask for official formal advice from the Privacy Commission every time an initiative has to be taken, that seems to me to be a little too far-reaching. Mr Bonte, he is not here, but I would like to make it quite clear to him that he has said that he heard this government talking about weeks and months. If I have to follow your request for a formal advice from the Privacy Commission each time, it will take weeks and months for measures that sometimes need to be taken much faster. I'll give you a guarantee that I'll keep a direct line with the chairman of the Privacy Commission. This Privacy Committee is not within my competence, it is a body of your own Parliament. If Europe's regulation comes soon, it will be a body that we will soon have to reform, we all know that. However, I now have a clear agreement with the chairman of the Privacy Committee that he will immediately signal me if measures are formulated by the government that are against the law and against the ideas of privacy law. So I've already shorted that out. I have been assured by him that no measure goes against the concerns of the Privacy Commission today. He'll know better than I do, and I'm assuming I can rely on the chairman of that Privacy Commission. If, of course, it is legislation that goes further, then it may be considered to ask for a formal opinion. However, I would like to work quickly and efficiently and keep a direct line with the Privacy Commission open to informally check whether anything is needed. If the chairman of the Privacy Commission sends me the signal that there is a need for a formal opinion, I will certainly not fail to ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u38	Colleagues, I understand that there are still a number of questions about the impact of and the proper modalities in which Defence provides support to the police. Some people want to believe that this would create a feeling of insecurity among the people. However, that is not what I have experienced. Over the last few days, I have seen a number of interviews in the media, with a clear majority of those questioned appreciate the support from the Defense Department. I would like to reassure you and share with you what is in the protocol approved by the government last Friday. Some conditions are very well described. First, deployment of the army is possible only in the case of security level 3. As my colleague said, when this level goes down to 2, the army returns to the barracks! Secondly, it is a very specific task, a task of static monitoring. It is not a question of taking the place of the police, but of being in support of the police. This takes place under the command of the police and in constant communication with them. Several colleagues asked how the locations where military personnel are deployed were determined. First, there must be a request from the local police, the federal police or the mayor. Today, the army was deployed to Antwerp and Brussels. There are also requests from Liège, Verviers and Huy, and from tomorrow at 0700 hours military personnel will be present in specific locations. Mr. Ducrame, as far as the number is concerned, on Saturday morning 150 military personnel were deployed, which could increase to 300. A few questions have been asked about the training and training these people receive. Today they are members of 3 Para and the Chasseurs Ardennais. They actually do what they were trained to do. Their tasks include much more, but they have also received training in monitoring. The specific additional training does not have to take so long and is mainly about the way of communicating with the police. It was agreed with the police that work will be done through the police's ASTRID communication system. That's a system that's weird about DOD. The military are connected with their superiors through their own equipment and also directly with the police via ASTRID. The intention is, of course, to allow them, within their rules or commitment, to apply all the means necessary to carry out their task, namely to monitor buildings and the people who are in those buildings and near them. The second specific part of the training is precisely about those rules of engagement. The way one may react is very well specified. I myself spoke with a number of soldiers on the street and they have confirmed to me that these rules of engagement have been taught to them through very concrete examples. In the event of an incident, the violence increases proportionally and gradually. You will understand that, especially for security reasons, I will not go into those rules or commitments any further. This does not seem to me to be good for their safety and ours. Quite a few questions have been asked about the cost. That cost is variable. I can confirm that the allowances are described in the military statutes. They receive a factor 2 allowance on a scale of 5. Consumption itself can be determined later. However, as far as I can tell, they are moving rather close to the places where they are to act. In conclusion, I will answer the question on prisons. I haven't read the article, but I'm going to try to explain what this is all about, I think. During last year's strikes, a question was asked in committee as to whether the Defence could support the guards on strike. We replied that there was no legal basis for such action. On the other hand, I believe that being a prison guard is quite different from a static surveillance mission. At that time, therefore, I had been very clear: our staff is not trained to perform such a task. I also do not believe that there is a need to train people for this. It's quite different from what we do every day in the Department of Defense. I hope I've answered all the questions. Philippe Goffin, president: Here comes the time of the replicas. We'll take the same order if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u39	Mr President, Mr Jambon noted that it was positive that the majority/opposition divide could be overcome. Of course, I have found myself in some of the speeches of my colleagues from the majority, which clearly shows that this is an open debate, in which we will have to work to try to have as much majority as possible outside the government. I would like to thank you for a series of answers. With respect to the person wearing an electronic bracelet, you have given many important details. In this regard, something has not worked out entirely. Fortunately, this has not led to a disaster. That said, this malfunction will have to be addressed. You talked about connection of computer files, about the need for prisons in the short term to systematically warn. I think it may be important to start with a circular to remind prisons of this obligation, to report it before proposing connections. With regard to the level of the threat, Mr Jambon tells me that it was the OCAM that decided to move from the limited level 3 to the general level 3. To tell the truth, there had been other echoes. As far as the decision on the level of the threat is concerned, I find myself totally in my colleague Dewael's speech. It is absolutely not the policy to do so. It is not the National Security Council that you want to decide. I do not know what this Council will bring you, but you want to put something new in place with the policies. The decision on this matter must be made by the OCAM. He's got the services. I created the OCAM and I experienced the difficulties with the secret services you mentioned, Mr. Dewael. I actually had to go to England to try to convince them. So I know these difficulties. The OCAM was created so that the exchange between the police and intelligence services could take place, because we had found dysfunctions, and so that an organ could gather the most complete information possible. It is from this that the nature of the threat must be determined. It's not up to politicians to take care of it. I also hear that depending on the level of the threat, one could decide – as you have just done – to post military personnel in sensitive places. I'm not saying that this government could experience drifts, but a government could. I say and repeat that this decision is a matter for the security services. As for what you were telling us, Mr Jambon, about the measures to be taken in response to the threats, I would point out that the Spanish authorities have worked rather well in this regard. Exchange of experience can help our country. With regard to the Internet, you replied that something had to be done and that an important meeting would be held in February in the United States. You added that you would debrief the Committee on the Interior. I maintain, Mr President of the Committee on the Interior, that it would be useful, before learning of the conclusions and proposals of the Government, to obtain information on what exists in a range of partner countries. Maybe these devices work better than here. As for the withdrawal of the identity card and the new offences, as you yourself say, we still have to wait for the texts. The debate will be held at the right time, and I will join it. Similarly, for the overall budget, I look forward very impatiently to what will be decided in February. Remember what I said in plenary session: the famous 300 million looked a bit like Mary Poppins' bag. Indeed, absolutely all the ministers, committee after committee, have told us at some point of the 300 million from which the government could draw in the event of an insufficient budget. I have no doubt that the conversation you will have between you will be interesting and joyful. I tell you right away that, for me, it is not just a question of avoiding the savings that you had planned for the security services. I believe that at the level of intelligence services, we need to increase the resources. I said it and I say it again, we need more resources for human resources, for inspectors. With the difficulties we face, this is one of the top priorities. I'll come back to you on this. As far as the withdrawal of nationality is concerned, I do not agree with you. I have not heard you talk about the link between these proposals that are in the government agreement and national cohesion, which you have spoken of and which you call for. You say you don't want stigma, but you're organizing it. You are discriminating against Belgians by birth; I find that really frightening. We'll have an opportunity to get back to it. I am quite opposed to that. This will have a boomerang effect against the values and principles that you mentioned in your speech. With regard to radicalism in prisons and jihadists who have returned, I ask that we be able to have debates in committee and that we be enlightened by actors on the ground. This will allow Parliament to hold high-quality debates when the government's proposals are on the table. I have not had an answer about imams, which I regret. I think it's one of the big problems of radicalization. They are crucial to the intriguing of our young people, alongside what is happening on the Internet or in so-called mosques. Even in mosques, there are preachers who do not play the game of democracy. We'll need answers here too. Finally, nothing has been said – but perhaps I have not paid sufficient attention – about the social fragility of those who are embezzled. If we are blind to a situation of social desperation and the consequences of social desperation in terms of embrigation, we will always run behind the difficulties, the violence, and we will not prevent them. This work is not solely a matter for the Communities and the Regions, which are of fundamental importance. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the good coordination between the Federal, the Communities and the Regions. You know I called for a national pact between them. However, skills must be mobilised at the federal level to provide a social response to young and old people who, in a situation of desperation, regrettably become embroiled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u40	Mr President, I would like to return to the question of prisons and imams going there. First of all, I am pleased to hear that the Prime Minister will convene a joint meeting of the Federal and Communities to reflect on a comprehensive plan. Indeed, there is a debate about the prisons, the imams and advisers who intervene in the latter. It is known that there are not enough inmates and that when some inmates wish to have an exchange with a counsellor and this proves impossible, it is another inmate whose training is not known who plays this role. The problem – and here I agree with Mrs Onkelinx's concern and would like to refer to her the responsibility of the federated entities in the radicalization of certain imams in mosques – is that it is also the fact that díimams are often not from the Belgian soil, who come with a speech that does not fit into a reality as we know it in our neighbourhoods. From this point of view, I plead that we should finally move forward, at the level of the federated entities, on training for imams in our universities and, in general, on a Belgian Islam, which the community demands, so that the referents in which young people enrol are common referents to all. I have a question, Mr Geens, and it is a real question, a concern that I share with you and that it is difficult to find an answer – we will think about it together at the right time. It concerns the establishment of two specialized sections. We don't know what the right solution is: do prisoners have to be separated or put together? Were you in favour of a solution? I read, a few weeks ago or months ago, an article in The New Observer, recounting the testimony of one of the thinking heads of the Islamic State, who explained how, in an American prison in Iraq, he had found himself with a number of leaders of terrorist movements whom he would never have dreamed of having the opportunity to meet outside the prison, to foment the Islamic State, since they were being followed and listened to. There they were gathered in a high-security prison. They had been put together so that there would be no cultural contamination, which gave them the opportunity to meet regularly and exchange in such a way that they would never have been able to do so outside. So we'll think, I said, there's no miracle solution. I'm not sure that scattering them in prisons is the best. But this is a real question and the consequences of the choices we will be making will have to be measured. These were the two elements on which I wanted to intervene. I think my colleague Van Hecke will complete it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u41	Mr President, I would like to thank the Ministers for their answers. Firstly, Mr Jambon, I welcome your statement that we must avoid culpabilising certain groups by using a special identity card. Finding a solution will not be so obvious. Such a measure will be a very difficult balancing exercise, because it is still necessary to give those concerned the opportunity to live a normal life. It is precisely the intention that they should get to work and integrate into society and not become victims of it, for example in applications. It will take some reflection to find a good balance. Mrs. Matz suggested a solution with a chip. I do not travel very often, but one should not insert the identity card anywhere, one must show them, so a chip will not work there. It is indeed a very difficult issue, and I wish you every success and creativity. Secondly, Mr Geens, I understood that you would allow information from a judicial investigation to be passed on to administrative authorities. That's a breach of the secret of the judicial investigation. You denied that, but you didn't explain it. So I am still waiting impatiently, because I would not like to have misunderstood you and that there would be interplays in the Chamber tomorrow on the basis of totally wrong information. Nor do I want to spread completely wrong information. Thirdly, Mr Tommelein, I understand that you will develop a special relationship with the chairman of the Privacy Commission. You said you'd check things out with him. Mr Tommelein, you do what you want, but the Privacy Committee does depend on Parliament. It may be that you consult with the Privacy Commission and that the chairman of the Privacy Committee tells you that it is in order. He may say that to you, but he must first inform Parliament. If you come to Parliament and say that you have consulted with the chairman of the Privacy Committee, who has given his consent, while I do not have any supporting documents, then we have a problem. I do not want to be too formalistic, but if you take privacy seriously, it must also be carried out seriously. When the Privacy Committee makes comments, it must also be delivered to Parliament. If there are no comments to be made, this may also be communicated to Parliament and we are aware of that. I suggest that we make clear agreements on this. You also argue, if it is really about legislation affecting privacy, that a formal opinion should be delivered. Sometimes it takes a long time, but maybe everyone has to take responsibility. If it's really urgent, then the Privacy Commission could also try to work faster to give advice. Finally, I would like to make a general comment. Two elements of the twelve-point plan cannot be discussed today. After all, the radicalisation plan is classified. The government says it will change that plan, but we do not know what will be changed; we do not even know what is in it. Nor will we be aware of any changes to that plan, because that plan is secret. Something that's classified, we can't discuss. Now I cannot imagine that everything in the plan Radicalization is secret. There may indeed be confidential matters, but I think it is possible to hold a debate on this, so that we know what is in that plan and what it is about. The secret and confidential elements may be removed. However, if we cannot discuss the Radicalisation Plan here, then you do not need to talk about it anymore: we cannot question you about it, because you cannot say anything about it. The same is true for the circular "Foreign fighters'. The mayors are aware of this. It's about procedures and responsibilities. The mayors complain that they have too many responsibilities to bear. We do not know, however, because we do not know its content. We cannot therefore discuss this either. That is why I propose that those two points, when you come to Parliament, are simply no longer mentioned. Or can we try to have a debate on this in one way or another? At least we will know what the challenges are and what arrangements are in place. If there are confidential matters in it, I can understand that and for that we may be able to go to a closed meeting, to go into more detail. I await the answer of Minister Geens of Justice. Philippe Goffin, Chairperson: Before giving the floor to Ms. Matz, I would like to point out that the issues of which the authors were not present are moot and those of which the authors were present are considered to have been dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u42	Mr President, I thank the Ministers for the answers that have been provided. I would like to come back to a few points very quickly because it is starting to get late for many people. As far as the budget is concerned, I heard the Minister of the Interior say that he asked the services about their specific needs in order to know what amounts to allocate to them. Minister, are these your own services or all the services (Justice, Intelligence, OCAM, etc.) whose applications you centralize?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u43	It's for Mr. Geens.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u44	So this is not just about the police and the services under your control. It's important to know.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u45	I would like to clarify my answer. This is an existing document that the services we are talking about filed with the Department of Home Affairs in 2011 and to which they have never had a response. I asked for an update to meet these needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u46	But the needs in 2011 were not the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u47	That's why I asked for an update of the applications.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u48	I am sure you are aware of this, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that police areas are under severe strain for the time being. A mayor intervened earlier, saying that he had 140 embassies in his police area. What should it do with the devolved budgets and the decided reduction of 40 million? We must not be insensitive to all these calls. While I stressed our thanks to the police services by starting my intervention earlier, I also think that local agents, especially the mayors, regardless of their political colour, are subject to severe stress in certain areas and face daily stress in their management of the protection of the population. I think the minimum we can do is to get them out of the material constraints. The budgetary aspects are very important for the police areas, as you know. Compared to the Internet, you have not mentioned, perhaps on a voluntary basis, the proposal to work on anonymity on the Internet, which still remains an important vector for the spread of hatred. It seems to me to have heard in particular that France has just taken some steps. I think it may be interesting to look at this. About ID cards, you didn't really answer either. You say it's in consultation with the prosecutor's office. Why not just give the decision to justice? From the moment it is one of the causes of withdrawal. I told you I shared the principle. The only thing that differentiates us on this point is to go through justice. It will be as fast and we will have guarantees. Why simply consult with the prosecutor and not have the decision taken directly by the court? A juvenile judge for a minor, the court of first instance for a major.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u49	That is a specific question and I will therefore answer it. We use parallelism here with the passport and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Why not by justice? Because of the timing. It takes too long. The workload of the judiciary is not negligible. We are not going to increase this workload with a system that already exists for passports and which is managed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; for identity cards it will be the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic066x.u50	I understand the parallelism. I reported it earlier. This measure has existed for a very long time. I do not understand why it was never used by the Department of Foreign Affairs. I know you just need the ID card, but in other places you also need the passport. We realize that when we talk about the passport and the identity card, the two documents do not have exactly the same scope, in terms of law. In any case, we will see the status of the texts. With regard to the withdrawal of nationality, I heard Minister Geens mention the legal question he had about it. I invite you to reflect more fully on the question of whether nationality should not be withdrawn, but I would remind you that we have tabled a text slightly different from the government's stated wishes. You yourself said that this discrimination is currently possible; the Constitutional Court has validated it. However, objectively, I do not think – I am not a guesser but a lawyer – that the Constitutional Court would validate discrimination as you want to project it. I also agree with what has been said: effective and symbolic measures are needed to take over the names of some. For my part, I believe that they are more than symbolic: let us not forget that people who are persecuted, like certain religious minorities in the Middle East, are often persecuted by Europeans. There is a lack of understanding: how can we accept that these people are still part of your nation? A signal should be given abroad in this regard. That is why I think that this measure would be far more than symbolic. We have a text that exists, a law that exists. Let us enter into this law and do not seek the complications that may not only delay the implementation of the law, but also lead to numerous legal obstacles. Philippe Goffin, president: I thank you all for the quality of the debate and I also thank my two fellow Presidents Karolien Grosemans and Brecht Vermeulen.
