ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u2	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 612: Karin Jiroflée - 633: Philippe Goffin, Denis Ducrame, Gilles Foret, Richard Miller, Carina Van Cauter, Patrick Dewael, Olivier Chastel - 694: Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Carina Van Cauter - 840: Conseil Degroote, Sophie De Wit, Sarah Smeyers, Goedele Uyttersprot, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Sabien Lahaye-Battheu
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u3	The discussion will resume. The discussion is resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u4	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to repeat here that open justice must be for everyone. After all, everyone has the right to rights. The right to a fair trial must not be a hollow concept. Citizens are entitled to a high-quality administration of justice. I would like to say this in the presence of Mrs Onkelinx, but she is not yet here. Justice for all is not just a matter of means of course that must be sufficient, it is also a question of mentality and attitude of everyone who cooperates in law. This morning we had a discussion about the role and advice of the public prosecutor in civil matters. I believe that this discussion is also in line with that. It seems clear to me that an opinion is well thought out and that a parquet magistraat produces its opinion with knowledge of the file and of what is important to minors, rather than just being present at a particular session, without providing any added value in a dossier. Minister, justice for all has to do with the efficiency with which we deal with justice. That's what you're focusing on today. At a time when the attention of our government, rightly so, is concentrated on economic growth, which is a basis for our standard of living and also for solidarity, it seems as if it is banal. It's not that. If the government fails to resolve disputes in a just and efficient way, there will be a breeding ground for extremism or some right-holders will seek ways other than those which belong to the law. We must avoid that at all costs. Mr Minister, with the implementation of the government agreement and in accordance with your justice plan, you are presenting a draft to the Chamber today, which will make progress towards a more efficient and faster administration of justice. As Mr Goffin has said, you are right to do so with an emphasis on responsibility and trust in the magistrate, without compromising the quality of the administration of justice. The draft is a first step, which essentially adjusts civil justice, but also carries out a number of urgent changes concerning judicial organisation. The draft also includes liberal proposals on the extension of the limitation period. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the critical success factor - this has been the case for a number of years before the reform continues to be computerized. Minister, you have a plan of action for this too. A first step has been taken by creating a legal framework to enable electronic communication, first of all between the actors of justice, by creating a single electronic address or e-box. This system will undoubtedly generate significant cost savings and efficiency gains if it works properly. I take advantage of my speech in the Chair to ask you, Minister, to maintain sufficient attention to the roll-out of the system. It is a first step to adopt the law here today, but I think it is important that it also works on the ground. If we don't, we're going back to square one. To this end, you will hopefully have sufficient consultation with the various professional groups involved, such as bailiffs, notaries and lawyers, in order to achieve effective and efficient electronic traffic. Minister, of course the ultimate objective cannot be the creation of an e-box, which must be electronic litigation. You are taking a first step, which we will fully support. However, we also want to keep you awake for the continuation of the process, the creation of authentic sources and, above all, electronic access for the citizens seeking justice. Ladies and gentlemen, I would briefly like to mention a number of important legislative amendments, which our group supports and which were to be reviewed this morning. First of all, we fully support the rule of law, which is based on the absolute nullity of civil procedural law. If the draft is in force, a nullity will only be able to take effect if the alleged omission or irregularity harms the interests of a party that raises the objection. It is not true, as Mr Massin says, that this would jeopardise the rights of the parties to the proceedings. On the contrary, a clear explanation and consultation and discussion with experts on the matter has shown that, when the court finds that interests have been harmed and that the objective of the standard has not been achieved, it can also decide on certain nullity. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft also rightly emphasises the responsibility of the process parties themselves. Everyone has a right, but justice does not come naturally. A data subject must assume his or her responsibility. According to the proposed regulation on the amendment of Article 806 of the Civil Code, the court must, in default, take into account only the provisions of public policy. During the hearings, there appeared to be some confusion and difference in vision as to the scope and interpretation of the concept of public order. It was clearly emphasized and I would like to reiterate that the court will examine the provisions which cannot be waived and which are considered by the legislator or the caselaw to be of general interest in relation to the claim. Thus, contrary to what was claimed this morning, the judge will in no way be able to honour usury interests or illegal trade by means of a judgment. On the contrary, he will indeed carry out the public policy test and, if necessary, reject the claim. Our group is convinced, unlike certain other parties, that the extension of the non-systematic referral of a dossier to a collegiate chamber will have an efficient and positive effect on the ground. It will undoubtedly reduce the lead time, which was clearly demonstrated during the hearings. We are well aware that the reduction in the lead time is not all-out in terms of qualitative administration of justice, but we cannot deny that it is at least an important indicator. The fact that a case is dealt with by a single judge will also provide additional opportunities for an amicable settlement and mediation. I believe that this is an evolution that we are only benevolent. It is clear that some cases are not always brought before a collegiate chamber. This ensures that single-seat judges will continue to speak justice. This will allow those involved to become more specialised and to engage in collective, structural consultation so that, despite disputes, legal certainty will be established in a particular area. Colleagues, the undisputed claims and the delay in the payment of commercial transactions are an old very which has been repeatedly tried to remedy. I believe that the choice of this draft to implement uncontested claims through an administrative procedure will undoubtedly exclude files which do not belong in it. It must be the intention of proper administration of justice to keep the threshold for justice as low as possible where there are discussions and disputes. However, we must not burden the judiciary with files that are not really appropriate. I know that, in the past, we too have been of the opinion that we should strive for a system similar to that of the European order for payment procedure. I believe that we can wholeheartedly endorse the Minister's choice to distinguish between what is contested and what is not contested, and also the guarantee that the procedure will cease once the case has been contested. Finally, the extension of limitation periods. This draft indicates the extension of limitation periods for specific categories of particularly serious crimes. It is clear that the design cannot be an end-point at that point. A debate on the extension of limitation periods should be held on the substance. This must be done in conjunction with the reform of the criminal justice procedure. That debate will have to be brought to the fore. The question we need to ask ourselves is who serves the limitation period. It is clear that the passing of time complicates the taking of evidence. There is no doubt that time has come when there has to be another measure of punishment. The question we need to ask ourselves is whether our society can tolerate murder and child rape and whether it can wipe the sponge over these crimes. For our party, the answer to that question is no. We are pleased that, as a first step, at least the extension of the limitation periods of those particularly serious and serious crimes is included in the draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u5	Mr President, this is an interesting debate that Mrs Van Cauter has just launched. We tried to have it in committee, but we felt that this was not the time, since this criminal aspect, which is a little lost in the pot-pourri project, was not there, except for the urgency that justified it. I hear you are now arguing for imprescriptibility. This is one of the avenues that was imagined in committee, to which, I believe, the Minister of Justice directly closed the door, saying that this was not included in the government agreement and that, therefore, this imprescriptibility of crimes, however heinous they may be, would not be achieved. We then met in the discussion of the criminal procedure to discuss this element. I do find it regrettable that this text should have done so, although it would have justified a much more general approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u6	I fully agree with you, Mr Brotcorne, that the debate on the limitation period requires reflection, care and a more in-depth discussion. That is also what the Minister promised during the discussion in committee. This is a first step. The debate on the substance will have to take place at a later date. I understand that you are also inclined to hold such a debate. So I am sure we will meet in committee on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u7	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you have undoubtedly noticed, or not, that we have not followed the discussions of the committee. We agreed in advance that we would make our contribution here in the public meeting. This statement is above all an explanation of vote in which our group will vote in a certain way. I'd like to explain that to you anyway. Our group is very nuanced about this draft. We do not believe, quite frankly and unlike many other Members of the Chamber, that this is an important draft. On the contrary, we believe that the impact will be rather limited. I will discuss the following five sections, which ask for some comments: no longer requiring the opinion of the prosecution, the appeals before a single judge, the order of the conclusions, the undisputed financial debts and the longer birthday period. Firstly, no longer requiring the opinion of the public prosecutor, coupled with an instruction by the College of Attorneys General. This is not so much about the often debated question of whether there should be a public opinion or not. From a constitutional point of view, I do not agree at all with the solution that the College gives guidelines and not the Minister. When it comes to the content of the oral opinions at the Council's meeting, the Council of State says that this is a matter for the judiciary and that it should not be interfered with. That is right, and it is limited to that. We have had a fantastic example of this in history. Attorney Willy Acke was forced by the Attorney General to request in writing the referral of the case from Dendermonde to Nivelles regarding the gang of Nivelles. The Attorney General has given him the order and has asked him as a prosecutor in writing that the case would be referred to Nivelles. At the plenary session he gave the opinion that he found the reference to Nivelles wrong, which is his right. This means that, in addition to the oral opinion at the plenary session, there may indeed be instructions. They may come from a hierarchical superior, so as well from the Attorney General as from the Minister. In relation to the prosecutor's office, the minister is no more than a hierarchical superior of the Attorney General. Either we accept here that there may be instructions. Ipso facto, this is not about what is said orally at the hearing, but if the prosecutor does it, the minister can do it. In any case, it means that the Minister is politically responsible for these instructions to Parliament. In the 1970s, 80s and before that, major discussions were held on the independence of the public prosecutor. In the 1930s, Raoul Hayoit de Termicourt, attorney general at the Court of Appeal, found that the prosecution was independent. At that time, it was a bad time for democracy. He felt it was no longer right for Parliament to look at its fingers. He felt that the prosecutor had been given his powers by the Nation. We are past that stage, our constitution is clear. I would not like us to have that discussion here again. The Council of State says that they should not do so, that they would delete the minister and then they would not talk about it. That's convenient and sensible, but for the record, you may give those instructions. If it's okay with the parquet, you can, too. In any case, it remains part of the political responsibility. I speak here more as an interested constitutional specialist than as a Member of Parliament, but that may also happen. After all, I'm paid for that, so I get to pay for it. As far as the content itself is concerned, I am afraid to predict what the outcome will be today. You will not hear me say here that the prosecution must give advice, but you will not hear me say the opposite either. I was not present at the committee meetings, but I read the report and the texts as thoroughly as possible. There was a lot of opposition, especially in the area of social security and family law. We can't deny that. They had great reservations about this. These arguments cannot be simply rejected, but we want to give this reform the benefit of the doubt and see what that gives. It is true that mass advice is being given routinely today and that a lot of time is being wasted. We cannot deny this argument either. As far as the single-seat judge is concerned, I think the impact of this is somewhat exaggerated. A very romantic picture of how a college works is sketched. If I understand correctly, it is assumed that three judges will discuss every routine case for an hour. I have some experience in that area. I have put myself in a court of law, and I have some friends who do that too, not too much, because it is known that as a politician they do not have too many friends in courts of law. Generally, it's not like that. When it comes to more or less routine cases, a judge writes the advice and the others assume it will be good. That's how it's done in practice. Fortunately, because if that were not the case, we would be dealing with a justice department that is looking at everything that can be done. Are there going to be a lot of changes now because the judge decides on his own? I don't think so, but it also means that I'm not convinced that there will be a huge efficiency gain. It won't change that much. An example was given of the pilot project in Antwerp. Pilot projects give a picture, but with their generalization one must be very careful. I don't think it's gonna change that much. I think it's a bit of a wrong reform. I have nothing against it in itself, but I believe it is a wrong reform. I'll explain why I think that. If we consider the appeal to be important, then the appeal must be given greater legitimacy than the first decision. It must not be the case that when a judge says yes, one goes to another judge who says no. Then what's the advantage of going to that second judge? There must be greater legitimacy. The example given by the Council of State is striking. A peace judge with 20 years of experience makes a ruling and a young judge at first instance, who is only a year old, says the opposite. Where's his greater legitimacy? I am rather in favour of the fact that there are more judges in appeal than at first instance, for legitimacy. I would add, however, that I do not think it is the right reform to make sure that there is much less appeal. There must be filters. I am in favour of the judges being on appeal by three, but also that they should be able to filter much more. We have a great obsession with the individual right of appeal, which must be absolute, but what I say here will never be approved in the Chamber. We need to think about that someday. The Supreme Court in the United States, for example, does not in principle exceed 300 to 400 judgments a year. That does mean that they make fundamental judgments on abortion, the death penalty or gay rights, which give a direction. We believe that any decision should always be subject to appeal and that the judge should accept it. I am in favour of a larger filter that is unusual in our legal system, so as to be able to appeal, but then let the professionals talk with more and more informed about it. The principle of one judge making a judgment and one other judge making an appeal may be more efficient, but I doubt it. The real reform would be to introduce far better filters in order to appeal and not simply accept that there is always a need for a profession, because that makes the first instance almost a condition for appeal and then we can save ourselves that effort and appeal immediately. Isn't that right? We're both lawyers. I know what I'm saying isn't going to be accepted by all the judges, but it's the truth. There is a small problem in the text, in the sense that it is stipulated that the Superior Constable can decide on this. You have partly responded to the criticism of the Council of State. However, the text states that some matters may be decided by the Superior, or in particular objective circumstances. That really is a very vague criterion. The Chief Constable is therefore going to determine that there are particular objective circumstances to assign a case to three judges. However, that will not be enough. This means that, both in our Constitution and in European law, there are strong provisions on the removal from the natural courts that if the judge does not motivate it and even if he does not allow any kind of contradiction, one can get into difficulties. In my view, the reasons and the contradiction are not included in the text. Of course, a judge can still organize that, but if he doesn't, and the law actually allows him to, then one goes on slippery ice. I am not saying that the chiefs of police decide at random, but a decision must be more than non-random; it must also be clear why it is taken and it must be motivated more than what is prescribed by law. Are we very much in favour of single-seat judges? Actually, no. Do we have a problem with that in itself? No, but the better reform is to make a difference between first instance and occupation and to build filters, as we have gradually done with the Council of State over the last few years, not without any opposition. The compulsory order of the pleadings, I think, is a bit clumsy, with my apologies for the word. They will have to number all of that now, and one party will use these numbers and the other batch will use other numbers. It is not said that it only applies to lawyers, because the minister says that he is going to do something specifically for those who do work with a lawyer. That argument does not convince me, because for the e-box it does, and rightly so. The e-box is only for people with a lawyer and not for individuals. All this technical organization of the conclusions could just as easily have been put only for lawyers, which would have facilitated the transition to the whole. I don't have a lot of faith in it right away, because I'm afraid it will easily remain dead letter. What bothers me a little is that it is said that there is a difference between the words "motivation obligation' and "answer obligation', which are often used. That is not the case in the case of judges; the justification of judgments is a reply. Any plea, not every argument, must be answered and the judge must make an effort to investigate it anyway. We can put all kinds of conditions and modulations in legal texts here, but if a judge does not answer a means, that is an infringement of the general constitutional principle of the obligation to state reasons which, once again, is a reply to any means. That provision cannot therefore be abolished by law. She may be a little modulated, but does that relieve the judge of the duty to answer? I don't believe that. I do not think that we are in accordance with the constitutional rule as regards the sanction of non-compulsory expenditure. In my opinion, that is not possible. It may be possible to do so in this way, but the penalty will no longer be the justification, which is the obligation to reply. So I think that's a step too far, especially in the private sector. That is where you go too far, Minister. The faster collection of undisputed money debts between professionals has resulted in a lot of reactions. However, we are not against it. It's about professional players. A professional player informs another person that he has to pay. However, if the latter refuses to pay, nothing has happened. There's a lot of trouble going on about that point. This isn't about private people. It's about professionals. For those who enter the market professionally, one of the professional obligations is that they pay their debts or refuse to pay them if they are wrongly asked. That is the point in itself. However, in the construction with the National Chamber of Court Bailiffs, we have some questions about how that construction will work and whether it is good. However, the scheme is pragmatic. Over time, you will probably come back to it. In principle, however, we are not opposed to speeding up the recovery of undisputed monetary debts. I come to my final point, the limitation period for some very serious crimes. You're adding ten more years to the statute of limitations. That is therefore a matter of less concern, Minister, because at this time you will no longer have to deal with it. We will approve the provision. After all, we agree. In this respect, however, a fundamental question has to be asked, which has just been raised by Mrs Van Cauter and also by you, Minister. A choice will have to be made. It is not possible to extend the limitation period by another five or ten years every five or ten years. That's not good. One can, on the one hand, make a certain crime unenforceable, which is often done in Britain. For certain crimes, there is no statute of limitations. That's a first option. One can also, on the other hand, decide to stop a file after 30 or 35 years. However, if necessary, it should not be stopped. A sort of truth commission must be set up, which, without criminality, can bring the next generation of people to the truth. The crime is no longer punishable after 35 years, so a long way further, but one must at least know what happened. This is important for the grandchildren, for example. We do not need to have that debate today. We still have some time. Let us hope that something else will happen in the investigation. Sooner or later, we will have to discuss it. I'm more in favour of the second option. People cannot be kept in the dark for a hundred years. At some point a social need is to know the truth. We have seen this in different circumstances: when regimes change, there will actually be truth committees, transitional justice. Perhaps in five or ten years' time we should also set up a truth committee here and conclude that we can no longer punish because it is too late for that. But we might know what happened to that murky case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u8	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have had extensive and interesting debates in committee. They also had a fairly high level. So today I will not repeat everything. I'm already left with mixed feelings when I look back at those two months of work. We started early in August. Of course, there are positive elements in the present draft law to make justice more efficient, faster and better, and to remove useless elements from the criminal code and from the procedure. Of course, there's a whole different story behind it, and everyone knows it. It is not just about how we can make procedures more efficient. It is also about how we can reduce input, increase speed and increase output. There's almost management language used in Justice circles. Maybe that's a little revolutionary, too. I believe that the great danger in the story could be the loss of quality. This is the essence of our criticism: will all measures together not affect the quality of the administration of justice? The challenge is just in all the reforms. How can we make Justice work more efficiently and better without any loss of quality? Perhaps we will only know in a few years' time when we have to assess whether the measures presented here have actually achieved their objective and have not produced any perverse effects. Basically, the courts will have to produce more judgments. I explicitly use the verb "Produce." When you read the text, that is what this is about. This will have to be done with less resources. We have already discussed the government's drive for savings earlier today, fewer staff, less collegiality, more single judges and fewer public prosecutors' opinions. The question arises as to whether that is not a toxic cocktail, a mix that kills quality. A number of efficiency gains may be achieved in the short term. However, I do not think we should exaggerate them. Not all measures will lead to much efficiency. In the medium and long term, this may be counterproductive. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that potpourri I is the implementation of and also a response to the government's rather heavy savings. I agree with Mrs Onkelinx's criticism at the beginning. Minister, you were faced with a decision by the government to move the substantial savings linearly to the security departments, including justice. At that time, you had to see immediately that the imposed rhythm was almost impossible. You have had to discuss with your fellow Members for months in order to reduce the rhythm and raise additional resources to prevent the greatest drama scenes. After all, the Justice Department is on her gums. If we look at media reports from the past few weeks and months, we have to see that many staff have not been replaced, insufficient or far too late in recent years. That's not just your fault, Minister. The practice of putting the replacements on a low level has been going on for a number of years. It concerns not only judges, but also clerks, clerks, prosecutors, security personnel and so on. There is, of course, the new family court, which should ensure that discussions in family matters are more efficient. From now on, there are no longer four courts of jurisdiction, but one court dealing with a file. However, they also note that they do not have sufficient staff to support the number of cases. Minister, I think there is also an urgent need, above all, for a debate on the correct financing of justice so that it can achieve its objectives. This does not mean that efficiency exercises should not be carried out, but we must ensure that justice does not turn square. You mentioned the river bed and floods, but we must see that the budgetary straitjacket does not dissipate the Justice Department. If not, you won't be able to do much with your bed. For example, I notice that the discussion is not only being held with us, but that she was also discussed in the Dutch First Chamber last week. On Tuesday, at the presentation of the budget, a motion was adopted in which the First Chamber asked the government to reconsider the budget of the Ministry of Security and Justice. It is about the case law, the prosecution, the police, parole, access to justice and so on. We have the same debates. The Court of Justice in the Netherlands says that next year it will need 52 million more for justice alone. In all countries where savings should be made, we must therefore be careful not to cut too deeply into the budget for justice. I see two important answers to translate the budgetary challenges on the ground. First of all, it is believed that with less advice from the public prosecutor, we will be able to generate much more capacity and still keep quality at the level. Secondly, one chooses single-seat judges. Let's take the advice. You know our position on this. I refer to the debate that has just taken place with Mrs Becq on the family court. Often the image is created as if the prosecutors who go to such a hearing are there flowerpots, there are wearing their pants all morning and therefore have actually done nothing. I was therefore surprised at what even prosecutors who supported your measure came to the hearing. They said that a round question from the Prosecutor of Namur to his substitutes returning from a hearing had shown that their presence and their opinions had been useful for resolving them in 40 to 60% of the cases. The President of the Family Court pointed out that the opinion of the Public Prosecutor would have been useful to it in more than 40% of the cases in order to settle them. Yet the picture is created that all these prosecutors are sitting there wearing their pants and giving standard advice that is really nothing. I haven't been president of a family court or a prosecutor myself, but I hear what the people on the premises are saying. If, in 40 to 60% of cases, it is considered that these opinions are useful, that is a great deal. When Mr Macq had asked his substitutes how many cases were involved, I thought the answer would be 5% or 10%, but the answer was surprising. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if you go back to your cabinet after the Council of Ministers and ask your cabinet staff how many files you have had the impression of having had an impact in the Council of Ministers, and you would say 40 to 60% of the files, then I think your staff would be very satisfied, as would your chairman, your party and yourself. However, should you have to answer that it is only in 5% of the files, it would not be a big deal. Another example: if students were asked who would think that the professor taught them something and 60% of students would respond positively, that would be a high number. That would, of course, be 100 percent for you, Minister. If it is about 40% to 60% in the Justice Department, we want to abolish it, we do not want to impose it anymore, the prosecutor will decide for himself. However, in order for the prosecutor to decide whether it is useful to give advice, he must check up on up to 100 % of the files. Otherwise, he cannot know in which file he may or may not be able to give useful advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u9	Mr Van Hecke, just in family matters it remains possible for advice to be given at any time. I have a question for you, as a lawyer, you've probably been through the times before the family court? I'll get it. I myself have often asked for interim measures from a peace judge, just like many of us. There's no parquet magi street next door to give advice. The Justice of the Peace was single-handed. Should I be concerned that in all these cases as a lawyer we have come out with a bad decision for our clients, without advice and with a single judge? Is that what we're supposed to think now? I thought you said you could do that at the time. I understand the concern about the D.A.'s advice. The draft law provides for a solution in this area. It's still possible, it's not out of the question. I guess it used to be possible, too, often to everyone's satisfaction. So I'm beginning to understand that in this story less and less.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u10	Mr De Wit, I have also been in meetings with the Justice of the Peace. It was often about the interim urgent measures that are important, that is the case. I can only say, Mrs De Wit, that I have heard what the parquet magistraat has said about the experience of his substitutes present on the ground and giving advice. They consider that in 40 to 60% of cases they have the impression that they have gained something and have had a useful impact. That's what I'm assuming. You were there, too. You heard. The chairman of the family court spoke of 60%. In my opinion, these are very high figures. I will come back to the other options later, because you say that the court can always ask for advice. It's open to the prosecution, it can investigate the case itself. If it's useful, the prosecution will be there. You yourself call for a little faith in the parquet, because the parquet will do so seriously. I follow that, but at a time when there will be heavy savings and pressure on the market and priorities will have to be set, there is a great risk that things that are mandatory will happen and that things that are not mandatory will become less priority in the long term. That is the great danger that has been embedded in the scheme.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u11	Mr Van Hecke, I disagree with you on this. You yourself say that it is useful in 60% of cases and not in 40%. With the present arrangement, the Public Prosecutor will be present in 60% of the useful cases. Instead of those 40% of other cases, the prosecution may be able to deal with other urgent matters which also deserve attention and it will not lose its time at a hearing that is not useful for the prosecution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u12	Mrs De Wit, that concern can also be addressed by organizing intervention. If the public prosecutor considers that advice should be given, it can be placed at specific sessions, with the presence of the public prosecutor. Cases where no advice is required may be placed at other plenary sessions. In this sense, it is possible to solve this organizationally. Colleagues, I would also like to talk about the single judges. We have also discussed this in detail. The proposal to move to more single judges is not based on scientific evidence that this will be more efficient or will lead to better quality or at least to maintaining quality. Unfortunately, there is no scientific investigation to determine whether more appeals are made against judgments of single judges or against judgments of collegial tribunals and where the success rate is highest. This means that many measures are put forward a little from the gut. [[Rumor]] This is almost an assist case here, and we're not on potpourri II yet. The generalisation of the single magistrate is not a good thing. The arguments are well known. Collegiality inevitably leads to better considered and more balanced decisions. It's also a good school. Recently, I was addressed by magistrates who are truly concerned. There is a very large influx of young magistrates who can go to the magistrate at a very young age. That's very good. They are very well formed, much better than thirty or forty years ago, in terms of theoretical knowledge. Eventually, they have to learn the trick. For those young magistrates it is very important that they can work with experienced magistrates for a number of years to gain experience. That will no longer be the case, all the more so since it is no longer necessary to have three years to sit alone, and that period is reduced to one year. The College of the seat also made those comments. In the hearings, many experts agreed with that direction. What was different was the proposal of the Supreme Court of Justice, in line with what Mr Vande Lanotte just said. Would it not be much more efficient to intervene on appeal and ensure that this does not become automatic, so that there is much less appeal? The Supreme Court of Justice points out that perhaps more collegiality at first instance should be sought in order to limit appeals. This also means that these statements will show less divergence at first instance. That seemed like an interesting slope. Minister, you thought this was a debate on which we could come back later, in other potpourri. This could be an interesting debate with perhaps much more efficiency gains, but not with the disadvantages that are evident here at first sight. Finally, you know that with regard to the single judge, I have a problem with a small provision according to which the chairman can decide on a case-by-case basis to assign a case to three judges. We have discussed this for a long time. You have said that this will not just happen and will be well balanced, but can a chairman have that power? I then referred to the article in the Constitution which states that one cannot simply be pulled away from the natural courts. To what extent is that still consistent? It may seem strange if one of those cases is lifted and sent to a chamber with three judges at a magistrate of a particular chamber to which certain cases were assigned. I am convinced that there may be cases where this is justified, but that can sometimes be very strange. I have given examples in committee. It is often not about what the real intention is, but about how it will be perceived by actors involved in a process. The starting point for potpourri I is that the procedures must be faster and more efficient. I fear there is a danger of a number of counterproductive and perverse effects. I've been talking about advice. However, as has now been developed, it may well be that the handling is not faster but slower. When judges consider that they still need to seek advice, the case should be postponed again, an opinion should be followed, the parties may be given the opportunity to reply and so on. It can therefore have an adverse effect on the speed of handling in often very urgent matters of family law. Secondly, the absenteeism, which was also discussed for a long time. You are aware of our position on this matter, Minister. We agree that in absentia it should no longer be served within the year. That is not a problem for us. However, it is dangerous to restrict the right of review of the courts to matters which are contrary to public policy. In fact, the committee went so far as to allow the legislative authority to decide for a moment what public order is or what should become public order in the future. Everyone was convinced that the judge should be able to intervene in the event of excessive interest and excessive damages. Some said that this is also a matter of public order. I'm not convinced of that. When it comes to family law, for example, excessive alimony claims, is that contrary to public policy? Minister, your expert says that perhaps someday the Court of Cassation will consider that this is also a matter of public policy. In other words, we are not doing very well there. I think it is a good objective to try to avoid appeals and opposition, but this measure creates a counterproductive effect. I think that we should have retained the wording of the initial preliminary draft, in breach of public policy or manifest unfounded debt. It is in that sense that we have tried to convince you to re-use the original wording. I know that the Council of State has made comments on this in a very philosophical discussion about the minimalist and maximalist interpretation, but I think we should look at what is happening on the ground and ensure that a judge can intervene where he has to in order to avoid unnecessary resistance and appeals.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u13	Mr Van Hecke, if I understand correctly, you say that we in the committee have tried to define the concept of public order. I believe that we did not want to do this just because we agreed that it was an evolutionary concept. We have given a general explanation of this, namely everything that we do away with from the will of the parties themselves. I therefore believe that we did not just do what you are saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u14	I think we should all read the report carefully. I just wanted to give one last example. It was said that in future the Court of Cassation may have to consider that too high alimony payments are also subject to public policy. The concept of "public order' was created by the case-law. I'm okay with that. It is indeed an evolutionary concept. I do not think that we should determine what should or should not be covered by that concept. I don't think that's healthy. I believe that we could have avoided that discussion by retaining the original text. I believe that this was a good text. It referred to "public order' and "manifestly unfounded'. I fear that there may be a lot of discussion because all we are talking about is public order. Many judges will wonder what is or is not covered by that concept. This is a useless discussion that will waste a great deal of time. Who knows, they may have to go to the Court of Cassation to know what is or is not covered by that term.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u15	I think we might be complementing each other. I remember that in that discussion we also talked about a minimalist or a maximalist view. Without wishing to go into detail, I recall that we have asked ourselves whether it is intended that those who do not bother to attend the hearing should receive the best lawyer in the figure of the judge in absentia. I would like to ask that question again because it is very relevant in this discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u16	I understand that remark. I would like to say two things about this. First of all, if a court of peace in a given canton has established a settled case law on what he or she considers to be an acceptable interest rate or an acceptable claim clause, and says so dozens of times a week, why should he or she not go through with this settled case of default? I don't have a problem with that. Let me give a second example. When someone doesn't show up, is it manifest unwillingness or not? I would like to remind you of what Mrs Schyns told from the family court in Brussels, that in family disputes, the letters of call will be sent to the address where both partners still live but where there is a conflict. The plaintiff shows up, but the defendant doesn't. Why doesn't he show up? Did she not receive the summoning letter that came to that address? It has put forward this as a problem which is very common in this matter. We must therefore be careful when restricting the courts' right of review to public policy, otherwise we will have decisions that are difficult, with more appeals.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u17	I want to finish the discussion. I do not want to repeat the discussion from the committee, but the rights of course remain. It is not because the time limit is extended for a judgment in default that the defendant loses his rights and can no longer object and has no right to appeal. In principle, all the rights of today remain. That is not prejudiced.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u18	That's exactly right, that's just the essence. I thought it was the Minister's intention to make sure that fewer appeals and fewer oppositions were made. This is contrary to that, which is my concern in this matter. I understand that the rights are preserved, but that may add to the workload of the judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude my speech with the limitation periods. In fact, we have not discussed this aspect so extensively in committee, we have talked more about the other aspects. However, this is also an important aspect. It's kind of the weird duck in the bite of this potpourri I. We all know that there is one very important issue in which there is also a social debate. Does the investigation have to continue for another ten years? Will it produce results or not? It's a little rhetorical. We don't know either. The Minister said that he was told that there are indeed still pistes that can be walked. I therefore believe that we should seize this opportunity. There are already crimes for which there is inevitability today: crimes against humanity, genocide, war crimes. And yes, there are also serious crimes that have a major social impact, where it is important to find out the truth. This is no ordinary case. I would just like to quote an article that was published in a free gallery in the newspaper, written by a journalist who wrote a book about the Gang of Nivelles. That journalist bears the striking name Hilde Geens, but that may be a coincidence. She also refers to Willy Acke, who was also referred to earlier, the substitute in Dendermonde who at the time dealt with the file, together with investigating judge Troch. She quotes Mr Acke, who apparently committed suicide at a certain point, suggesting that he was murdered, but that is separate from this discussion: "As a society, you do not have the right to close a door if you do not know what is behind that door.' In the case of the Gang of Nivelles, we all want to know what's behind that door. The question is whether we will find out for the next ten years. I hope so, but there is also a chance that we will not be much further in ten years' time. We must then consider, and this suggestion was made, whether we can investigate in any other way one of the most important criminal cases of the last century. We all know the historical investigation that has taken place into the murder of Julien Lahaut by CEGESOMA. That investigation has shown what really happened, who the clients were, it has shown that there were parallel structures in society with another agenda, which operated in parallel with existing justice and security structures. It was mapped very nicely. The Minister and the fellow Members who will be here in ten years' time, when the debate re-emerges, perhaps we will have to decide not to prolong the investigation and to take better advantage of other means and make the choice for historical research. Now, however, we must seize that opportunity. Hilde Nodes also suggests something else: extend that limitation period but by ten years, you never know that there are useful elements. In the meantime, however, can we not carry out a historical study on a number of aspects of the dossier, which have not been examined or not sufficiently investigated by the Justice Department? And she makes some suggestions in that open gallery. Minister, we have ten years to go if this law is passed. Perhaps the suggestion made is not such a fool to have a number of aspects examined in a different way. Who knows that, within three or four years, historical research will lead to a number of insights that can still be useful for the Justice Department to explore further. Those insights and suggestions can be useful, because we have every interest, the victims and relatives, but also society, in getting clarity on this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, many speakers have pointed out the displeasure of people we have heard about the lack of respect for their comments and suggestions. I will not go into more detail, but I would just like to refer to two recent letters from the Order of Flemish Baries and Avocats.be. One was addressed to you, Minister, and the other to the chairman of the committee. They responded to your statement at the second reading in committee. You would then have said about the recovery of the invoices that there was an implied consent from OVB and avocats.be. They strongly dispute this and even ask you to rectify it. Minister, I was not present at your talks with OVB and avocats.be. I can only read what you said in committee. Now I read that both organisations say that this is not correct. What is correct? It may be useful to point out in your reply what an agreement was about, then it is clear once and for all and perhaps everyone will be satisfied with what is in the annals of today's debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Justice, the problem with potpourri is that it is diverse. Some smells are pleasant, others less and others are frankly unpleasant. Your text may be properly qualified, because it contains a little of it. There are positive elements, with which the CDH has no difficulty, namely:- simplifying the procedure, to avoid it being an end in itself and being a tool in the service of justice; - avoid unnecessary appeals that occur because decisions are not correctly rendered or not properly understood and those that are only dilatory; - structure the conclusions, we are not against, even if we do not really see the interest in advancing justice in the direction of speed; - to develop the careers of magistrates, we agree, but find it a pity that the reflection on a real statute for magistrates is postponed until tomorrow; - to improve the system of nullities, who would not agree with it?; - and of course, as a matter of urgency, computerize the justice system. The computerization of justice is a bit of the Loch Ness monster. Since I've been in this Parliament, we've been talking about it, we've been trying, but every time it doesn't work. If this does not work, it is not only because the judicial world would be conservative, unable to adapt to modern technologies, but also because successive State suppliers have not been able to provide software that is correct and easily usable. I remain convinced that if we had, for a number of years, a proper computerization of our judicial world, we would not now have asked ourselves questions to consider how to increase its effectiveness, its speed, because this judicial world would have been at the rendezvous, if not of evolution, of the technological revolution. I hope we will succeed in the coming months or years. But scalded cat fears cold water. We could have, minister, if you had split your bill, voted with you on all the elements that I have just mentioned, just as we could have supported your desire to extend the penal statute of limitations. Yes, we would have, even if it was a subject that asked questions. It will not have escaped you, moreover, that, on this article, in committee, we voted with your majority. However, globalization requires us to make a choice, a balance between the positive and the less so. As a result, I voted against your draft in committee and my group will do the same in plenary. Why? Because of the elements that are unacceptable to us. I'll come back. Minister, your purpose is to invite us, together with you, to take Justice out of the 19th century and bring it into a world of efficiency, profitability and speed. You add: "I would even have pursued these objectives without the budgetary rigour that caught up with me." That's what I'm worried about! Indeed, like others before you, I have the feeling that you are looking at our judicial world as if it were a business. Of course, it is a public enterprise – one can wonder for how long still – but one has the feeling that one requires this enterprise, which is not like any other, to make a number. It's a good economist's vision! Your will, through all the texts that you have submitted to us, in any case in this first "pot-pourri", is clear. Your line is good to impose the budgetary efforts required by this government on a department that is already so fragile that it struggles to fulfil its tasks, which, I remind you, are constitutional tasks. Despite all your talent, which I very much appreciate, Minister, you have difficulty making us believe the opposite. Help, the boat is sinking! It is the expression used by one of the magistrates, a member of the public prosecutor's office, whom we heard in August and which, it seems to me, sums up the state of mind of those who are obliged to make our institution work on a day-to-day basis. Since then, how many appeals have been made in the same direction, from the magistrates of the seat, from the prosecutors' offices, from the clerks' offices, from lawyers or from the litigants themselves? The judicial world has never been so much heard, demanding the material, budgetary and human means to exercise serenely its function so essential to a democratic society worthy of that name. What is your answer to these calls? What is this government's response? I was surprised and, frankly, I waited a long time, during the Prime Minister's statement this Tuesday, to hear about justice. It came very late in his speech. He did not pay much attention to it, except to remind us of the projects that are yours and which you have already had the opportunity to draw our chronology. I did not have the feeling that the Prime Minister had taken the measure of the grunt in the judicial world. He didn't have a word to try to reassure this third authority about the risks your projects pose to this institution. Let us go back to your text, Mr.Minister, who is trying to provide a little more precise answers. You tell us, a little like a leitmotiv, that decisions must be made within the year and that the backlog must be reduced. Again, no one will contradict you. Everyone will agree. But since you do not have the budgetary means to open the taps and increase the number of magistrates and clerks, you remove collegiality in the courts and tribunals, while all the judicial actors invite you to renounce it. You also do not have the means to fulfil the officials of the Public Prosecutor's Office who allow him to continue to perform his duties, and therefore you propose that we abolish his presence and his compulsory opinion in social and family matters. You are trying so hard to save money in every sector that you say you still have to see what justice has to do. You have to determine your core business. Everything that revolves around and that is only the improper use of the judicial function must get out of this judicial environment. It has to be outsourced somewhere. In the specific case of the text before us, it is the problem of resolving disputes over undisputed claims. You also aim at the use of mediation and a whole series of extrajudicial situations, but without seeing the means that will allow these alternatives, probably interesting, to deploy properly. You want to drastically reduce the appeal process. Again, I think everyone will agree, but in your text, which we have had the opportunity to debate at length in committee - I will not go back to that - there is still an inconsistency. If we want to reduce the number of appeals, we must ensure that this appeal is not simply used in an unnecessary or dilatory manner, as I said earlier. How? By strengthening the first instance, by ensuring that the first judge who is seized of a case is surrounded by all the guarantees of quality of operation, so that the litigant has a tendency to trust, admit and accept the decision rendered, thus preventing him from filing an appeal. You're doing the opposite. You're going to propose that we remove collegiality at first instance. What will still be the interest of the litigant in this way of avoiding the appeal? You want to go faster in court decisions. You want to rationalize and, at the same time, is it not a new inconsistency either? When it comes to a default judgment, you say that the judge will simply look at conditions of public order. For the rest, he won't have to look at the demand. Do you not think that by doing so, you will multiply the opposition procedures and thus obtain the exact opposite effect of the one you expect? Decreasing the budget of places of justice is not directly in your project, although the beginning is there for justices of peace. But I want to align this with the Prime Minister's statement on Tuesday in his policy statement. He also spoke of the rationalization of the places of justice. I really feel behind this will an indirect and implicit way of telling us today what we will probably have to consider tomorrow. The reform of the judicial districts provided for the maintenance of the current courtrooms. Tomorrow, I am convinced that you will come with proposals to remove some of these courtrooms and that proximity, which is essential if quality justice is to be done, will no longer be on the table. In short, do we still want to make justice a public service? This is a real question that we must ask ourselves in the committee, Mr President, but also in this House. Finally, what is the function of justice? It's not about knowing if she's getting away with the budgets and the resources she's being given. It is a question of whether the resources and budgets allocated to it are in line with the needs that it is supposed to meet. What are these needs? What the litigant considers to be entitled to bring to the attention of the judges in order to settle a dispute of any kind. In this first "pot-pourri" text, which is not revolutionary in itself, we see lines pointing out that leave me pantois. I have the impression that the quantity takes precedence over the quality, that efficiency is preferred in relation to the consideration of the interest of the justiciable. Moreover, we can analyse your project with this guiding thread: "Where is the justiciable in the proposed measures?" Where is the humanization of justice or the added value for the justiciable, who is the first client of justice? I certainly do not find the interest of the justiciable in abandoning collegiality. You know my point of view in this regard. We debated it in committee during the discussions on this text in the previous parliamentary term. Theories clash about the relevance and interest of collegiality or the single judge, but everyone agrees that one thing is that collegiality allows for quality justice and the training of magistrates. Now, here, what are you proposing? Ensure that, at an early stage, judges sit alone. Of course, not all disputes are of equal importance, although the litigant believes that his problem is the most prominent in the world. Not only do you want to multiply single-judge chambers, but you also want to change the conditions to fulfill this function. Currently, it takes three years of experience for a magistrate to be appointed as a single judge. In your text, it will only take a year. The Supreme Council of Justice, which is still a body which has the habit of rendering nuanced opinions and is anxious to accompany the evolution of our judicial system, warns you and also warns us against changes which would lead to the substitution of the subjectivity of a second judge in the degree of appeal to that of another in the first instance, without the citizen finding there any added value in terms of legitimacy, knowledge and experience. What a loss of trust for the institution! I have heard the Chairman of the Committee on Justice speak of trust in the leader of the court. I am firmly convinced, Minister, and you have not persuaded me otherwise, that this reform does not represent a real improvement. I must remind you that, already in 1967, the legislator had introduced recourse to the single judge, but by giving him a guard: the presence of the public prosecutor at the hearings and the mandatory nature of his opinion. Subsequently, this provision was re-examined because it was considered inappropriate and did not meet the intended objectives. Under the previous legislature, this function has been distilled somewhat in the judiciary. This measure has been the subject of complicated discussions. The ink of this text is barely dry that you propose to us to modify it to generalize this recourse to the single judge, without any evaluation of what has been put in place by Parliament. Above all, and that is what is absconding me, all this is done without having any objective statistical element that allows us to assess whether or not a single judge will necessarily render more decisions than a chamber to three judges or three advisers. No one is able to give us guidance on the subject, to tell us that this is an objective element that allows for a criterion of efficiency and a greater number of judgments handed down. Everyone was very careful. The professionals interviewed all said that there could be, but we don't know if it's 10 or 20% or more. This brings me back to the absence of the computerization of justice and therefore to the absence of objective scientific data to support policies that might be better understood. If I had this element, I might be more inclined to follow you if, in fact, greater efficiency coupled with better quality were at the meeting. But here, no, we are moving towards a solution that is generalised without being absolutely certain that it will work and that we will achieve the objectives. You take a famous bet without any guarantee of meaning. The second element that makes us move towards no is the catastrophic abandonment of the mandatory opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office in social matters and family matters. All the actors we heard in the course of August told us that there was an interest and added value to the presence of the public prosecutor at the hearings and to the opinions he was required to give. As far as the labour court is concerned, the social taxable person is often alone in the face of large State or para-public institutions, which have the means to come with substantiated arguments. It is the auditor of the work who often speaks or tries to ask questions on behalf of the accused. In front of the family court, who is best placed to speak on behalf of the minor child? Who is best placed to try, during parental disunity proceedings, to ensure that the interests of the child are well understood and cared for in the arrangements that parents are required to make in order to consecrate their disunity, and that they have not been the subject of bargaining that is being tried to hide in court? He's the king's attorney. Mrs Schyns, a judge at the Brussels Family Court, told us how important and absolutely useful this opinion and the presence of the Public Prosecutor's Office were. I sum up his thinking by speaking of limitation. You say that the prosecutor may always consider that he must be present, that the magistrate may say, in a case which he considers particular, that the opinion or presence of the public prosecutor is necessary, but the court will be less well informed. The interface between the youth court, the family court, the parties, the judge is the King's prosecutor, and he will no longer be present. The legitimate expectations of litigants could be misled, discrimination could be created. I am not going to read again what was said, a little over a year ago, in the context of our work in the Justice Committee for the establishment of the Family and Youth Court, Attorney General Lucien Nouwynck. This was decisive in the attitude of the unanimous committee, and of our parliament as a whole: the presence of the public prosecutor brought added value and had an interest in the cases brought before the family court when the interests of the minors were at stake. And suddenly, a little more than a year later, because the family and youth courts are now about a year old, it is said that it has no interest or importance and that we can do without it. We do not know why, if not in order to fulfil an obligation before the Public Prosecutor's Office today, which was called before our commission by the prosecutor of the King of Namur, Mr. Macq, the same one who shouted "help, the ship sinks". He said that if at some point the minister asked him not to intervene in these matters, because in any case he would not have enough staff to do so and his framework was not filled, he would have to make choices. He would do them, coerced and forced, and not because he would consider that he was using his panties at the hearing when cases involving minors were on the roll. If he chose to do so, it was because, if he did not, there would be other missions, perhaps even more important, that he would not be able to fulfil. This raises the whole question of the means that we want to give to our justice system as a whole. Mr. Minister of Justice, I was talking earlier about the case, which is still the thread of the analysis of your project. I find that it is not taken into account, or its interest, when you propose to reform the default procedure and to say that there will be no longer more in the head of the magistrate than to examine the elements of public order. Since others have already spread on the subject, I will not go back to that. As part of our auditions, a professor has aroused your dissatisfaction, namely Mr. Boularbah. I will not repeat what he said about specific legal problems, namely, whether, in the context of purging nullities, any article of the Judicial Code should be retained. On the other hand, I would like to quote it in the context of a more general intervention: "It is not to be believed that by changing civil proceedings, the backlog of cases will be eliminated. Whenever justice is changed, it is delayed, rather than the other way around. Any legislative amendment must be given serious consideration in order to measure its actual added value in the light of any difficulties in interpretation or application that it may cause." It's a little bit of a fishing pot-pourri, in aspects that do not meet our consent. In fact, I have the feeling that in committee, we did an excellent job, in the summer, with university professors, practitioners who were on leave and nevertheless made the effort to come and talk to us, and who, I imagine, took the time to question their colleagues to know what they could say on behalf of their respective brotherhoods. All these people made comments that were still interesting. These remarks were not necessarily in line with the text you drafted. Earlier in the discussions we had, you told us that you consulted a lot of people, that opinions had been given, but if hearings were still considered useful, then perhaps not everything had been said. These hearings have indeed shown us that different views are still expressed and can be taken into account. We did not have the opportunity to bring to a conclusion the reflections of some of these interesting auditions, on the somewhat childish grounds of the game between majority and opposition that I thought could be exceeded in committee. There were ways to improve the texts beyond mere technical adaptations such as the postponement of the entry into force of specific legislation that would conflict with a text that had just been adopted. I think we missed an opportunity. It will be up to us in the committee, however, not to give up and not to get a refusal from those whose opinions we would still like to hear tomorrow because it would cut us off from an interesting expertise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u20	Mr Brotcorne, as I said earlier in relation to the hearings, they did enable all parliamentarians to reflect on them. I would like to take this moment to thank you and Mr. Van Hecke and Mr Cheron. I spoke earlier about Mr Massin and Mrs Onkelinx, but all parliamentarians were able to have a positive expression and were very involved in the debates. I'm sorry I didn't mention you earlier. I also wanted to say that the hearings will continue, but I think we have to have the ability at some point to tell people who come to give their views that political responsibility is taking precedence. One must be able to justify the choice in either direction. One must be able to explain why one expression is not followed or why another is followed. In committee, we took the time to explain why this or that direction would not have been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u21	Mr President, thank you for your kind words. It is true that we are trying to work in good intelligence and understanding. I believe that we have respected the political agreements that were reached with the Minister of Justice and the majority so that this issue can be concluded today. But I think that in the future we will have to be attentive when we have ideas that are expressed in these kinds of hearings. When they do not endanger the political construction – and I know that it is sometimes very complicated to reach a coalition – it would be necessary from time to time to be able to say that elements are interesting and must be retained.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u22	Mr President, I would also like to speak about the hearing of experts. I fully agree with Mr Brotcorne's point of view. There is obviously a political responsibility and a choice to make between such a decision and another. We don't deny it. But when it is a technical analysis that deals with a legal point and there is unanimity among experts, it is still the least thing to follow them. If we don't, they wonder why they're coming to give their opinion. They can see this as a waste of time. In the future, attention should be paid to such things.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u23	Mr. Brotcorne, just a clarification. In your opinion, as part of his policy statement, the Prime Minister was a little bit quick on the Justice side.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u24	I think so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u25	Later that evening, around 9:30 p.m., he had the opportunity to come back to the subject. His expression has gone in the way you speak of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u26	That's fantastic.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u27	It's beautiful.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u28	We will be hearing it at our next committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u29	According to the Prime Minister and according to the Minister of Justice, hearings are of great interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u30	Mr President, as I said earlier, it is true that it is interesting to listen to experts. It's even better to take into account what they're talking about, if possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u31	Mr. President Goffin, I am confident that we will continue to do excellent work, but I hope that we will also have a little more ear for the majority and the minister. Indeed, I think I remember, perhaps not in July, when you made your first presentation of your potpourri I law, but a little before when we discussed the procedure of the political agreement, I understood that your text was not necessarily to be taken or left, that it was adaptable, amendable, within reasonable limits. You have suggested it to us and it is also our frustration at the end of this work, which some agree to consider serious, not having had the opportunity to find a minimum of space for one or the other subject addressed by the opposition that was constructive throughout this discussion. Mr President, I would like to say one more word about the criminal prescission that appears in this civil procedure file. It's kind of special. We know the reason, minister. You wanted to have a lever to be sure of moving forward in the modification and reform of civil procedure. I regret that we had to discuss it in this context. It could have been separated and we could have reached a conclusion within the time frame for you to have the law published in the Monitor so that it could meet its legitimate objective. Personally, I am reluctant to accept these changes, which are taking place in an emergency and in relation to specific cases, even though in this case no one is obviously insensitive to the immense pain of the families in the two cases concerned and of the relatives of the families of missing persons who do not know how to mourn as long as one cannot put a name or organization behind heinous criminals who, today, remain totally unpunished and continue to live in this impunity which is not legitimate. Too often there is a sense of legislating for particular cases. I repeat that we have already increased the prescription in this particular case of Brabant killers, which is why we went back to 15 years of age. However, we must ask ourselves the question of the outcome. Indeed, today we are again forced to increase this limitation period. At what cost to Justice? This is a question that you are asking yourself more than we are still asking you in budgetary terms. With what hope for the victims? We didn't see anything going on during this period of time. Minister, as a lawyer, I do not remind you of the importance and interest of the statute of limitations in the legal arsenal. It is a question of saying, at some point, that a kind of social peace must be established and that sometimes we can no longer find the evidence. I find it a pity that I did not have a longer debate in committee on the matter. I tried to suggest some original leads that had been given to us by some practitioners. The question of imprescriptibility was raised. You replied that, as it was not included in the government statement, there was no question of it, contrary to Mrs Van Cauter's hopes. That said, if the lawyer who is still sleeping in me is a little reluctant, the politician fully understands the relevance of the question asked, which is why, in committee, I voted with your majority on this point. And, if you had distracted this element of the whole text, the cdH group would have followed you in that will. Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, these are the essential elements that I wanted to say in the rostrum, without repeating the debate in committee. Minister, bring justice into the 21st century, yes, certainly! And with a lot of enthusiasm. Move the judicial world, yes! We are at your side to do so if he does not always show this enthusiasm. But reform only with the aim of making savings without having in mind the essential tasks of this constitutional power and the interest of the people we are supposed to serve with a good organisation of this judicial milieu is no! I've noticed some interesting things in your project. I told you what was unacceptable to us and what was sacrificed on the altar of budgetary rigour. I really feel that we are busy – I hope we are not consciously doing so – dismantling in part the third power of the state and attacking its independence. We really need to get together. It is indeed the only of the three powers that sees its budget dependent on the other two, in the theory of the legislator. But we know that, in practice, it is long ago that it is no longer he but the executive who holds the cords of the stock exchange, or rather who pulls on the cords of the stock exchange. The right of every citizen, every justiciable person to have access to justice, to bring a judge before him or her and to defend himself or herself properly before him or her is inalienable and cannot be breached. While it is necessary to dust down, computerise and simplify, it is also necessary for the actors of the justice system to be heard, but it must be understood above all that what they are asking for is additional means of judges, clerks, court clerks and prosecutors, of money invested in computer science, in buildings and their renovation, and of legal aid which is still absent from our debates. Yet, Minister, you also promised us a bill on this very important issue for access to justice for as many people as possible. I think we should all pay attention to the alarm cry contained in the letter that the magistrates of the Brussels family court have just addressed to you. The latter cry out for their helplessness – it can be said as such – in relation to the lack of resources and the shift that you are making towards what many consider to be the beginning of the privatization of justice. I think we need to listen to the judicial world. Yes, Mr. President Goffin, we have to decide at some point, but our lead line cannot be limited to budgetary rigour alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u32	Mr President, both at the committee meetings in recent weeks and today, we have already had a wide-ranging debate on the draft legislation before us. So I fear that I may be able to repeat part of it, for which I apologise in advance. However, I would like to mention a few more things, in addition to what Mr Van Vaerenbergh said. Justice is one of the pillars of our democracy. It is therefore a pity, to say the least, that citizens are increasingly losing confidence in justice. This is also apparent from last year's court barometer. I took that one again. The most striking figure in this is that 92 percent of the members of the right consider that the handling of a case by the Justice Department takes too long. That is clearly what the citizen is awake about in the area of justice. However, we have heard many times that there is a cry for help on the ground. Think, for example, of the Alarm Day Justice that has already been cited. Apparently, the minister heard that cry for help. He has just repeated the initiatives already taken. In order to restore citizens' confidence in justice, it is necessary that there is good justice, within an acceptable time frame and at a reasonable cost. This is only possible if justice returns to its core tasks and if procedures become simpler and more rational. This is just the use of this bill: less and more efficient procedures. Less procedures are aimed at achieving the draft law by, inter alia, deleting the rule that a default sentence should be served within the year. We've been over that. It must also be made possible by removing a number of things that are not part of the core tasks of justice. One of them is the order for payment. Late payments put companies in financial difficulties and even lead to bankruptcy in the worst case. It is therefore essential that undisputed debts between traders can be recovered within a short period of time. I would like to stress once again that these are effective traders in their professional trade. Mr Massin, consumers and individuals must indeed be protected. You were concerned about this, but these are not the ones included. Any reference that could be made to consumers or individuals has been removed. Your concern is therefore unjustified. It's definitely just about traders. That's not unimportant.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u33	Mr President, I agree that any reference to individuals has been removed. I still know what amendments have been tabled and what exchanges have taken place in committee. Nevertheless, there is a weakening of the weak user. As I explained earlier in my speech, people who have problems reading and defending can be met among traders, craftsmen and professionals; in my view, they should be given special protection. I understand – and I know that individuals are excluded – that the project is aimed at traders. But an insurance company that pursues the local butcher who is not a specialist in accounting and does not know that there can be an excessive penal clause, it can happen too!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u34	Mr President, Mr Massin, thank you for repeating this briefly. I will come back later in my speech to what may also be seen as positive for debtors. I'll get back to you later. As I have said, this is not just about large companies, but, as you point out, also about SMEs and small self-employed people. They must, of course, also be able to pay their own invoices at the end of the month in order to be able to pay their employees themselves. In this context, it is an important measure for the maintenance of jobs. As already mentioned, the order for payment is positive for all parties concerned. We heard a number of people during the hearings. For all those involved, both creditors and debtors, but also not least for the courts, the measure seems to be a very good thing. For the creditors, it's fast. After all, there would be an executive title in five weeks. However, the order for payment is also cost-effective. I shall give a small example in this respect, which we received during the hearings. Figures often say more than words. A claim of EUR 10 000 which is now being brought before the court costs some EUR 1 362 in costs. In the new system, this would be EUR 443, which would immediately mean savings and cost-efficiency for the claimant of more than EUR 1 000. That is a considerable difference. I would like to stress that the measure also has advantages for the debtor. There is a ceiling for interest and damage clauses. That ceiling may not exceed 10%. I shall come back to what Mr Massin has just said. He's talking about 38 percent of usury remains that aren't in the picture here. I therefore believe that we have absolutely no need for concern. In fact, there is already a protection of the debtor, by including that ceiling in the law. However, there is more. According to certain doctrines of law, there is even an improvement in the debtor's position. I'm declaring myself. The mandatory notice, which is the first step of the order for payment, will contain clear information, which we do not always find in a subpoena. A summons is often general and concise. There are also courts of commerce that do not accept or even look at the bundles of documents at the moment when they are being discussed. Here again, the first step is expected to be accompanied by a service of the documents, which can only give more explanation to the debtor. Not least for the courts of commerce, this is a significant reduction in the workload, which we want to achieve with this bill. It was even said at the hearings that this would be around 80%. More efficient procedures have also been used, e.g. the structuring of conclusions. This measure will undoubtedly save time for the courts. patronizing? Maybe, one thinks so, the other doesn't. A lot of lawyers are structuring their decisions right now. They structure their resources. Those who do not do so and write long decisions of 20 to 30 pages are often causing unnecessary workload and frustration, not only in the courts but also in their opponents who no longer see the forest through the trees and spend a lot of time organizing another's work. On top of that, efficient procedures are also used on the principle of the single-seat judge. The aim is to eliminate the legal backlog, to obtain a decision more quickly and to specialise in the Chambers. Any initiative that leads to a reduction in the workload and the delay in justice should be welcomed. At the beginning of my speech I mentioned that 92 percent, something we should not lose sight of. A great deal is expected of the magistrates today. That is why it is certainly useful, necessary, and even essential, for the Chief Constable to be able to take part in complex matters that require it. I'm rounding up. Parliament's main objective is that legislation is in practice. Our group will continue to work constructively to achieve this. Minister, we will work with you to ensure that justice can once again fulfil its core tasks and that the seeker can once again have full confidence in justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u35	Mr President, Minister, I will of course not go back to the excellent statements made by my colleagues. However, let me complement them by addressing a sensitive and extremely important issue, namely the extension of the limitation periods. Unlike my colleagues, I will reinvigorate the discussion on the substance, because, during the debates in committee, this topic was almost ignored. As Mr Brotcorn recalled, the door remained closed. A problem of consistency has arisen, since a criminal aspect has been found in the "pot-pourri" 1, which nevertheless concerns the civilian. We should have had the opportunity to discuss it. In committee, I said that the extension of the limitation period should not be limited to the case of the Brabant killings. Today, however, in the various interventions, I have heard that this extension was clearly intended to save this particular case in order to prevent it from being subject to a statute of limitations. It is therefore a tailor-made law. During my studies, we were taught – and as a university professor, you know very well – that a law must be abstract and general and must apply to all. Minister, the laws are not being amended to deal with specific cases. I can only emphasize the danger represented by a law of circumstance or a law of exception, as you wish, to save the investigation into the killings of the Brabant. This law is, of course, guided by emotions. There is no doubt that this is a sensitive and sensitive matter, especially for the families of the victims. It is regrettable that this issue which has traumatized Belgium is still not clarified. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as great criminalists in this country have announced, there is a time when justice must do its job, a time when justice and the parties should be able to conclude. Mr Brotcorne spoke of a social peace, of a certain serenity that must come back. Of course, there are unfortunate cases where one has to admit a possible failure and make a reason. The objective is emotional, and we all understand it here, since it is a case that has caused so many victims, and whose families are waiting for an answer. In this regard, I have questions about the appropriateness of continuing to prosecute this case because, so far, we have not resolved anything and the prosecution has not led to anything. This is my personal reflection, because, in my group too, opinions differ in this area, as well as in the families of the victims. The issue of extending this deadline may also disappoint families and create false hopes. If the reasonable time limit is exceeded, the courts must take this into account either to reduce the sentence or to issue a simple conviction. Mr Minister, it is true that we could have had this substantive discussion in committee. I wonder if it is not more painful for the victims and their families, who are seeking, in addition to recognizing their suffering, the punishment of the person responsible, that it leads to a simple conviction especially for such serious facts as in the case of the Brabant killers. When an investigation is conducted, the flow of time does not just have legal effects, but also effects on the loss of evidence, on the credibility of the evidence received. We would have liked to have dealt with all these issues in committee. I mean, you say you want to save money. These are not just words, the majority of your reforms being driven by a concern for economy. Do you not think that this extension of the limitation period is contrary to this saving objective? In fact, far too few resources will be devoted to cases where, in the end, there will be an overrun of reasonable time. In conclusion, Minister, making laws that are also emotionally driven risks keeping justice away from its goal of efficiency. We legislators should have had a substantive debate on the subject – I repeat – in order to be able to show reason and to take a step back from all this emotion. This is really a debate that required much more in-depth discussion. They were carried out in an emergency. We met to work, very seriously, in committee, we heard the experts, etc. I would like to take advantage of Mr Nollet's presence to say that we worked for the second half of August. The Justice Commission worked in August and September. Maybe I'm not saying it for the right reasons. As I pointed out, we would have liked a much more calm debate on extending the limitation periods. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u36	Mr President, to reassure my colleague, Mr Van Hecke and Mr Cheron stressed how well the Justice Commission worked during the summer recess. In fact, my fellow Members were very active there. Allow me to state what our proposal is about. It is our intention that the example of the Justice Commission should be followed a little more in future. Instead of, as happened yesterday by the MR Group and again today, looking up some polemics, it is better to get started with the support that was present at the Conference of Presidents on Wednesday to reform the parliamentary start. What our group is proposing, formulated by my dear colleague Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, is to start faster and better, as the Committee on Justice has done. So don't worry, ladies and gentlemen. We do not want to nibble on your holiday, because there is still room to rest. How the Justice Commission has worked can only inspire.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u37	Mr President, I understand the harassment of Members of the Committee on Justice, given the train which they have had since the end of August. I fully agree with what has just been said by the Socialist colleague. At MR, we have no problem having a debate about the setting of the first plenary. Everyone knows very well that the parliamentary re-entry takes place earlier, even if there is a "plenary" re-entry on the second Tuesday of October. What is perfectly indecent on the part of Groen and Ecolo is to pass on the idea in the opinion that for three months parliamentarians are turning their thumbs! It is regrettable to nourish primary anti-politicism, populism! You are not doing yourself good, you are doing good to those who want to destroy our democracy, to the Pujadist parties, to the populist parties! You hit next door, I hope you'll get back together!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u38	I am pleased to take note of this historic moment. There is still a bridge between the MR and the PS! In particular, it is a bridge which deals with the length of parliamentary leave. That is good and less sterile than the predictable debate, which we see too often, between the two groups. As far as I'm concerned, that's fine, but I don't want to look up polemics, Mr President. I simply note, Mr Ducarme, that, in your absence, there was a consensus at the Conference of Presidents on Wednesday to reopen, initiate and do what other parliaments have already done. The Brussels Parliament, for example, has taken this step, partly driven by colleagues from the PS, I suppose, because I cannot imagine anything happening in the Brussels Parliament without the PS agreeing to it. For the sake of politics, democracy and this assembly, we believe that this assembly, Mr Ducarme, Mrs Özen, should take steps forward in order to start the parliamentary year more quickly and better, as the Justice Commission has done very well this year. Congratulations on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u39	Mr Calvo, I have obviously seen the reports on the proposals you have made on this subject, and I have read about them. You did give the impression that parliamentarians were lazy people who took three months off. That's ridiculous, that's not true. Almost all the commissions worked, as early as August. On the other hand, you have made remarks that we would agree with what the MR said. We can be political opponents, but we can also defend democracy together against pujadism.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u40	Mr President, the best way to demonstrate this will be to move forward quickly, on the basis of the proposals you will make at the Conference of Presidents. In this way, we will all be able, very quickly, to show by the facts, by the votes, by the reorganization, something that both have already demanded in the past. I remind Mr Ducarme of the proposals, requests and arguments used by his own party in other assemblies. I have traces if he wants them; I can give him copies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u41	Mr Nollet, your item is already on Wednesday's agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u42	Mr President, I do not think that we should disturb this unique moment of dispute between Mrs Onkelinx and Mr Calvo.................................................................................................................................................................................... I apologize for interrupting this moment. I actually want to say something much more important that I have missed throughout the debate. People don't dance on the grave! This is about facts of the Gang of Nivelles. 28 people were killed and 40 were injured. We are talking about a reform which we cannot but accept. We will therefore give you that confidence, Minister of Justice. Some humility and serenity in the failure of justice in the years 1982, 1983 and 1985 is certainly in place here. I believe that we should preserve that serenity and not elaborate on other matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u43	Mr D.H.Haese, this was actually your maiden speech. Congratulations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u44	Mr President, it is sometimes a good thing that you should not be interrupted if you remain silent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can agree with everyone that summer is over. The summer is unfortunately over, Madam Chair of the Infrastructure Committee. Minister, I will not repeat here the examination of the deep meaning of the word "pot-pourri". But still! What a strange idea to have sought to give such a name to a law that will be followed by another and then another, in short by some episodes. There is the law of the series and there are series of laws and this is not the game of the goose, Mr. Ducrame, we are well in the "pot-pourri". In August, after exhausting Mr. Miller's many books, I did some historical research; I tried to understand the etymology of the word "pot-pourri" and returned to Napoleon. It was going well! Waterloo hosted the reconstitution and, as usual, the French were beaten. The Napoleonic armies once found themselves in the siege of Burgos, where they created the concept and term "pot-pourri", which now accompanies Minister Geens in his successive reforms. I hope he doesn't know Russia's campaign or Austerlitz or Waterloo. Waterloo is rather the common sense of justice. It doesn't take a week for a court to let us know that it could, in the future, abstract itself from its real work. I will not dwell on the text and its context. Minister, this morning we had the opportunity to have a strong exchange between former government partners, who exchanged friendships about the responsibilities of the past. It is true that it was not from this government, nor from that government, that the economies hit the justice sector. It would be a bad trial for you. That's not why we're here. Minister, you announced at the beginning of the legislature, apart from the sad news at the budgetary level, that you were engaged in what you called a Justice Plan, with a succession of texts that were going to find a way in our Parliament. We started with hearings in August on the first text, civil procedure, and a number of measures. I understand that it is difficult to find a word that synthesizes all the measures so much they are of various natures. The chairman of the committee and others referred to the follow-up to these hearings. I do not assume that, because we are conducting hearings, the government or a parliamentary majority is obliged to follow what is said at the hearings. It would be to deny parliamentary work, to deny our work as representatives of the Nation to make the law and to do so according to criteria emanating from our reflections and our will. Mr Minister, we have been particularly shocked - I do not say so with emphasis - to note on several occasions the absence of a negotiating area. I used to do the part of it in a parliament. When you're in a camp, you say it's technical. When you're on the other side, you say it's political. No one's ever completely wrong or absolutely right. My colleague Van Hecke and others also pointed out a number of changes that could be made in the text and where it was clearly understood after a while that there was not much room on the part of the majority to amend the text. It was only forced and forced, at second reading, that the majority agreed to make three or four micro-amendments. It was even necessary to take into account the legal services that noted that as of January 1, 2016, two laws would come into force that would relate to the same article of the code but in different senses. On the method, I think we can do better. When conducting hearings, it is better to be able to respond with substantive arguments and not for the sake of cohesion in the majority. We did at times have this impression, minister, that you were perhaps open to some change, but that you would then have to renegotiate within your majority, which seemed impossible to do. On the method, we can really do better. I do not repeat here the debate in committee. Mr. Miller gave us the report. It is still a magnificent book by Mr. Miller that may have less success in bookstores than others. We had the opportunity to discuss all the issues. I will particularly stress two points. On the one hand, with regard to the opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office, together with Mrs Becq, we have relayed this statement from the President of the Family Court, who has convinced us that the role of the Public Prosecutor's Office is essential, especially when it comes to the protection of minors. According to her, and from what we were able to deduce from all the interventions, this public prosecutor's office had to remain compulsory, especially in cases involving minors. On the other hand, on the question of the generalization of the judge sitting alone, we were also entitled to a form of dialogue of the deaf, because what is striking in these matters is the inability to have an objective or even objectivable balance in relation to efficiency and effectiveness. Does a particular system generate a plus for the quality of justice or not? We are dependent on figures and results that do not exist and are in a position to shed light on the future. We have therefore resubmitted amendments on these two issues. Mr Minister, here we have a "pot-pourri I" which announced itself as a third category pass. We now expect other texts that are announced as second or first category texts, or even as non-classified texts. I don't know if we're going to wait until July, the month of the Tour de France, but we've taken a number of steps in your series of laws. We started with the civil procedure which was announced as the easiest, most trivial text, the one which, because supported by the actors, had to reconcile everyone and ensure that a large majority, almost unanimous in this Parliament, was obtained. We were able to see that it was not that simple. In particular, the method followed by the majority and the refusal to hear a number of arguments, although relevant by the actors, have led us to oppose. We will therefore vote against this text, although, as we have pointed out, a number of provisions are more in the right direction. This is just one step. What will count is the succession of all the steps that will mark the Justice Plan. Minister, you have a lot of work to do. It's going to be a long time, in a difficult context. We want to take the date so that as soon as the next "pot-pourri" is announced to us, there is more openness on the part of the majority, in any case on a number of points which are undeniably subject to positive amendments. You will then have constructive opposition from the Greens. But we'll have to have arguments. We will study all these texts with the sense of efficiency for the judicial system and of taking into account the people who are litigants, in a difficult context, in a contemporary society where the relationship to justice, as with other levels of power, is becoming increasingly complicated. We need to regain cohesion. We will therefore analyse the texts with all the attention they deserve, and we hope that the majority will be more open to constructive opposition than it has been to this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u46	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I come to join the opposition in saying how much the bill under consideration, as the government wishes, should bring about a series of reforms in the law of civil procedure to enable more effective justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u47	I will not deny here that there are, on certain points, proposals and legal developments which we consider quite interesting. But on essential points, we are more than convinced that the work has not given rise to the necessary deepening of reform of this magnitude, with consequences that the judicial world will have to bear despite it. This project has been waiting for the judiciary for years. For years he announced that the backlog prevented him from working in good conditions and deprived litigants of quality decisions rendered within a reasonable time. These two observations, which we have repeatedly repeated in this House for so many years, tell us how, in a rule of law such as ours, they are not only worrying but unacceptable. The expectations were therefore great, especially since on 25 and 26 August, the representatives of all the actors involved in these reforms were heard in the Justice Committee and expressed their concern that the citizen's confidence in the judicial world was reduced to a level of grief. It is true that the discussions were fed by experts who had intellectual honesty to distinguish between the improvements that needed to be made to the text and the purely political choices it posed. Of all this, unfortunately, there is little, or almost nothing left, since all the opposition amendments were rejected at first reading. Although I am no longer a member of the Justice Committee, I have been a member of the Committee for many years, it is a first for reform of this magnitude. Generally speaking, in such sensitive matters which affect the functioning of justice, the majority of governments agreed to take into account the reflections, proposals and amendments of the opposition when, without weakening the general orientation of the text, they contributed either to its legal improvement or to a wider acceptance of the legal developments which the majority seeks to impose. This policy of majority versus opposition voting is extremely damaging to the interests of the litigants themselves because, as the Association of Magistrates' Union has indicated, a change of procedure requires great caution in that it affects the subtle balance between the parties to the proceedings. As a result, we will not support the text in its entirety. We will vote against certain principles that the project intends to enshrine because they ignore the judicial realities in our country. I repeat criticisms that have already been made by others, but that are fundamental to us. First, the principle that cases submitted to the Public Prosecutor's Office would now be made available only on an optional basis. This principle does not seem to us to be tenable in the proper management of justice, particularly in cases brought before the labour and family courts, even if you have ensured, Mr. Minister, that in cases involving minors, the opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office is always required. We consider that the abolition of the mandatory nature of the opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office, leaving it to its discretion, does not correspond to a good notion of the balance of the parties in a trial, let alone in matters relating to youth law, labour law or social law, as the National Labour Council and the Association of Trade Union Judges have rightly pointed out. It is clear that as long as the Public Prosecutor's Office is not supported in its tasks by an increase in its resources and in its staff, the risk of a substantial reduction in its views on civil matters, even if they are justified and provide legal certainty, will become increasingly burdensome. Once again, you did not take into account the warnings of the Council of State, which were, however, clearer. I will not quote this opinion, but I am referring to it on page 147 of Parliamentary document 52/1219. These warnings deserve to be taken seriously because they are the result of a weakening of the public prosecutor's advisory mission following the reform of article 764 in 1992, which had already provoked the reaction of the world of justice and the bar. At the time, he was a lawyer, who had since become a prominent magistrate, Christian Cartier, who said: "It is unquestionable that the compulsory presence of the public prosecutor in civil matters tends to become scarce for simple practical reasons of availability and choice of investment." I therefore share the fear of the experts interviewed that the judges may no longer seek the opinion of the Prosecutor's Office, even though it would be more than a legal benefit. And all this because, in the end, we want to save money at the expense of a good service of justice. Nor will I support the reform of the procedure for the recovery of undisputed debts. Not that we are far from the concern about how these procedures can be simplified and allow for faster recovery, but we cannot accept that the law should provide for a completely out-of-court settlement of this matter. The establishment of a monopoly for the benefit of judicial officers always opens the door to abuses or risks of drifts which must sometimes be seen in the head of some members of this profession. I fear that this new procedure will also result in an increase in the cost of debt recovery and a reduction in the rights of the defence. I join in this the Belgian Association of Debt Recovery Societies which has emphasized the singularity of the judicial officer and, therefore, the inadvisability of entrusting him with a monopoly in this matter. The essential task of the judicial officer in the matter of recovery remains in fact the execution, so that entrusting it a mission of mediation may seem difficult to tenable. This is a confusion of roles and interventions related to different actors in the justice system. As for the abolition of collegiate chambers, I will not follow you further in this logic. The collegiate chambers are indeed an asset not only for the magistrates but also and above all for the litigants. The collegiality of the chambers is of interest since a decision resulting from the confrontation of the opinion of three judges is necessarily more thoughtful, more impartial and, in any case, better accepted by the litigant than that rendered by a single judge. Therefore, it is often an acceptance of the decision of a judgment at first instance that prevails in the conviction of the person in question. I also doubt the feasibility of this generalization of the single judge in that it will require more courtrooms and registries to support the work of the judges sitting in the single chamber, while it is known that today the staff shortages in a number of court registries are acute. This seems to me to be a bad answer to a real problem, namely to accompany the work of judges by a set of judicial assistants. I come now to the extension of the statute of limitations - others have spoken before me in this regard - to 20 years for crimes punishable by life imprisonment, from thirty to forty years since the law already provides for doubling the statute of limitations from the moment when an interruptive act was committed. I would like to warn you of the perverse effects that reforms adopted in haste can have, even if they are justified in the light of the imminent prescription of famous unsolved cases. Of course, we're all thinking about the Brabant killers. I do not believe that we can legislate under the influence of emotion and pressure from the public. Of course, the concern of the victims' families is well understood. However, as several magistrates and judicial interlocutors have said, how can we believe that the evidence that could be established almost thirty years after the facts resist the examination of the criminal court, assuming that evidence can still be collected? How can we believe in the serenity of the debate when facts so distant in time, as well as responsibilities, should be established? Unfortunately, justice cannot meet all the citizen's expectations in terms of prosecuting acts of particular gravity. It is true that justice is sometimes confronted with a stalemate in police investigations. But, in the balance between the desire to bring certainties decades after the committee of facts and the serenity of the judicial debate in order to avoid any error in criminal decision-making, I consider that we must always maintain the weight on the side of those who aspire to the second. We will also table amendments. The first concerns the structuring of the conclusions, to which most lawyers are already resorting, by adopting the solution advocated by the Supreme Council of Justice. Indeed, the latter considers that a model of conclusion must be made available to the plaintiffs who are not assisted by a lawyer, so that they are not penalized by not being able to assume this obligation of structuring when they defend themselves in court alone. This amendment is very reasonable. Indeed, I am convinced that conclusions that clearly distinguish the elements of fact and law and highlight the means to which the judge must respond are in the interest of all, including the litigants. They must also be accompanied in this process. My second amendment aims to preserve the suspensive effect of the appeal in tax matters as well as the judgments of the labour courts. It was a long debate in committee. I continue to believe that a justice that gives the illusions of a definitively acquired decision, while not all remedies are exhausted, is a justice that does no service to the litigants. And to remove the suspensive effect of the appeal, a fortiori when judgements must relate to disputes of a financial nature, risks creating a false legal certainty on the part of some litigants who, believing that they escape the effects of the appeal, believe that they can execute the judgment which is favourable to them in the first instance, whereas it risks being reformed in the degree of appeal. That is why we regret that this debate on civil procedure reform has not been further developed. That the members of the Justice Commission worked in August is not a first. For those who have experienced other events, this is nothing extraordinary!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u48	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u49	At the time of the Dutroux case, I had meetings of the Committee on Justice and other committees held during the summer. Let us make it clear that I have never known this Parliament in failure to meet, whether in committee or in plenary, whenever political or other developments warrant it. There is no one who believes that parliamentarians are suddenly absent because they would all be on leave, even for a long summer period. I think we all have a sense of responsibility. I will not conclude with the debate that our colleagues Ecolo have launched. But let us not create the illusion that, in the absence of a plenary session or a committee meeting, parliamentarians would all be in the meadows, in the green. Perhaps some have this inclination more than others, but we all have the same professional conscience.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think I can say that justice is ill. You are coming, Minister, with treatment for her. However, before deciding on treatment, a proper diagnosis should be made. What is he? The first element is its underfunding. Justice in Belgium is severely underfunded; our country spends only about 0.7% of its public expenditure on it. We are doing less well than 45 of the other 46 countries affiliated with the Council of Europe. I can give you a list of the 45 countries that exceed us, but let's move on. All over the judicial world, coming from magistrates, justices of the peace, clerks, lawyers, we hear the call for an urgent refinancing of the justice system. Against all logic, this government has made the choice to save even more in the same budget. The minister boasted again this morning that he had reduced the reduction in the Justice budget. He may even have simply postulated this decline in subsequent years. You are satisfied with this by cocoricos about this decrease of a decrease. I don't know if there's something to be so happy about! This is somewhat in line with the statements in the government agreement on the importance of bringing justice closer to the citizen. You do not convince the actors of the world of justice, nor the Justice for All platform, which brings together more than twenty associations active in the judicial, social, trade union and anti-poverty world. This platform has sounded the alarm on this austerity policy. There's no other word. Another element of the diagnosis is the gap between this justice and the justiciable. As the judiciary cracks on all sides because of underfunding, more and more people feel that this device is not there for them. Technical vocabulary is incomprehensible to almost anything that has not studied law. The procedures are lengthy and unclear. Your bill is not going to improve that, as we will see. Among the elements of this diagnosis, I also point to the cost of justice for the accused. The costs are increasing. The previous governments had done nothing – but you were – to improve things. It is recalled that the previous government introduced a VAT on lawyers' fees which obviously did not fix anything. The current government is not left behind in this area. He did not return to this VAT, but we know that he likes taxes on consumption. We saw him with the tax shift. Consumer taxes are considered 19th century taxes by economist Piketty because they affect everyone in the same way. But we are not going to go back to the tax shift debate. In addition, it is recalled that registry fees have been added, which are also a form of tax. Moreover, the increase in registry fees is dealt with in the Finance Committee. Finally, the last element of this diagnosis is the feeling of having to deal with class justice. Perhaps even a little more than a simple feeling, the fact of actually having class justice, a justice where one easily condemns a bicycle thief, or even someone who stole from a supermarket's trash cans, but, on the other hand, a justice that does not condemn the big tax fraudsters. I would like to be reminded of the big tax fraud case where the fraudster was convicted. When did it go back? This goes from the legalization of fraud via the rulings to criminal transactions – I am not going to go back to the issue of diamonds, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u51	Mr Van Hees, you were not present in the committee, so you cannot know, but everything you have just mentioned is not about that today. The draft law we are discussing today is the so-called potpourri I and concerns the reform of civil law. Perhaps you can talk about that, because that is actually the subject of today's debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u52	Colleagues, this is how I designed my speech. First of all, we must make the diagnosis of this justice that is ill. I'm still in the diagnostics for now. After the diagnosis, indeed, one must judge the remedies of the minister to see if they correspond to the diagnosis made. In medicine, that's how we proceed. If you don't mind, I'll finish my diagnosis. I said I wouldn't talk about diamonds. However, there is a feeling of dealing with class justice: from the legalization of fraud via the ruling courts to criminal transactions, to the use of lawyers who charge 600 euros per hour, which is more than the income of integration for a cohabitant. This is my diagnosis of this ill justice. With respect to this diagnosis, minister, you want to make us believe that the purpose of the Bill's reforms is to modernize the civil trial, to reduce the backlog without affecting the quality with which justice is administered. However, the whole logic of your plan lies in an economic perspective. So it is quite challenging to hear you say that you want to fight the overconsumption of justice. Unfortunately, I think that for many people who do not have sufficient financial resources, the opposite is the case. There is an underconsumption of justice, apart from the fact that it is strange to talk about consumption for justice. Lawyers, voluntary social workers, associations, especially the "right for all" platform, find daily that justice is clearly inaccessible to people with modest incomes. It's too expensive, it's too difficult. There is therefore an ever-increasing number of citizens whose social rights are also severely shaken, particularly by the measures of the same Government, which renounce their rights. Instead of reducing the distance between justice and the citizen, the government increases the distance, even in the physical sense of the term. Indeed, in your plans for justice, it is clear that your plans are to reduce the number of justices of the peace, and more precisely in this pot-pourri 1 here, we are already beginning with the temporary displacement of seats of justice of the peace and police court. This will therefore make it more difficult to access these front-line courts. Citizens will have to go further. You can say it's temporary. But you know that the Atomium was also a temporary building in 1958! In fact, it is your Article 58 which proposes these temporary measures. The project requires an objective need for the service to make these trips. It can be expected that it will be mainly budgetary reasons again (lack of staff) that will be invoked. With the government's budget cuts, the horizon is obviously far from promising. There are also these procedures that will be carried out to the detriment of the defendant without advice. I already said it. If we have to pay 600 euros for some lawyers, some are considering, and it is defensible, intervening without advice. But therefore, your structuring of the conclusions will make it impossible for litigants to have access without a lawyer. The Order of Flemish Bars states in this connection, I quote, that "the citizen will be confronted with an increase in the threshold which he must pass himself now that the imposed model requires some technical knowledge", I would even say a certain technical knowledge. In the same spirit, there is the question of the role of the auditorate. Several colleagues referred earlier to the issue of the family. I would like to talk to you more specifically about the labour courts, since the labour auditorate will only be involved when the case is introduced and not when the files are drawn up. This could be detrimental to the citizen. I am thinking once again of those social beneficiaries who are particularly victims of your government's policy, who have lost their rights and who must assert them in the labour court. So far, the role of the Labour Auditorate was important for the composition of the file, for the request of the documents to the social security institutions. He had time to prepare an opinion. With your reform, there is a risk of losing all those benefits that would strengthen the position of people in social difficulties somewhere. We're going to lose in quality and speed too because we may have to take steps like this request for parts that might delay things. Obviously, for a social beneficiary who is deprived of his income, speed is not a detail. The National Labour Council has written to you on this subject, saying that it was of the opinion that the proposed amendments could reduce to nothing the gains of a good administration of justice by the labour courts. The Council is of the view that your proposals do not serve the interests of the litigants and that the proposed regulation will not lead either to the expected rationalization of civil justice. Another worrying measure is the increased power granted to bailiffs in the recovery of undisputed debts between traders. It is true that this applies only to traders, but among traders, some people are weak, have no means or knowledge in front of a multinational they would face, for example. In the recovery of these debts, the judge is put out of play and everything can be settled by the intervention of a judicial officer. Yet, the bailiff is a one-sided person. Generally, it is designated by the creditor to enforce court decisions. The draft provides for the National Chamber of Judicial Officers to be competent to create enforceable titles. I find this disturbing. It's a form of privatization. It is difficult to talk about the proper application of justice here. In any case, the lobby of the bailiffs was clearly successful. The Order of Flemish Bars also makes a severe critique of the current project in this respect and proposes in concrete terms a strengthening of the computer processing of applications, in conjunction with the abolition of often unnecessary interventions by a bailiff. This seems to me to be a much better proposal than your form of privatisation. Minister, I come to my conclusion. The direction of this government is clearly not to improve citizens' access to the judiciary or to make it more democratic. That's the opposite! The government's technique to reduce the backlog is ultimately to reduce access to justice. It's pretty simple. This is also done at SNCB, in the health care sector and in other sectors. It's the same logic. This is a budgetary logic that could have serious consequences for the person in question. This is what the actors I have already cited fear, like those of the Right For All platform. For the PTB, this bill will take the citizen further away from justice. He will strengthen class justice and, even more so than before, minister, we can say that in court, the rich is raw and the poor is cooked!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking you for the constructive comments and for the quality of this debate on the future of justice. I will be very brief, because the day was long, and many of the things that have been said here have already been answered in committee. However, I would like to focus briefly on a number of points because they are important and because I do not want to give the impression that I do not want to pay attention to them. I want to be clear about the course and sequence of justice reforms. This is indeed a first draft law on civil procedural law, and there will be a number of others. Today, the second draft law on criminal law and criminal procedure was adopted by the government. That too will soon come to Parliament. The third draft law will go to the government next week, and the fourth where I would like to dwell is the draft law that will further implement management autonomy. To my regret, Mr Cheron and Mr Brotcorne, it will be called potpourri IV in my abbreviations. In any case, it is a design that is crucial for the further development of the business. Several speakers from the majority stressed it: an independent justice requires management autonomy. Independent justice presupposes, for my part, the autonomous management of justice by the judicial colleges. It is in this perspective that we are acting for the time being, in accordance with the law that was passed in the previous legislature. We will implement and deepen this management autonomy further. At that time, when one goes to further autonomy, it is very difficult for someone who prefers to choose what he thinks to be efficient, what he thinks to be routine and what not, to constantly hear that he has to force the magistrate to something, while he himself has the full ability to do something if she so wishes. I would like, Mr Van Hecke, to make a lot of comparisons with the 40% and the 60% you used in front of me earlier in relation to my presence and its usefulness in the government, but I shall now refrain from doing so. I will do so in the corridors, so as not to disturb the dignity of the debate any further. Having said that, Mr Van Hecke, it is clear that when a parquet magistraat decides whether or not to give an opinion on a matter which has been notified to him, it can be expected from that man or woman that he or she has the professional dignity and the necessary deontology to decide on it in that case. If it is true that Mr Acke thinks he should be heard in 40 to 60% of the cases, then I assume he can decide for himself which of those 40% he wishes to give advice, knowing that the other cases are routine. I would also like to add something to this, in general and, more specifically, in relation to the work audit. Over the last ten years, the number of written opinions in social affairs has fallen by more than half. Occasionally we have statistics, but statistics are available on this. And when it comes to two very crucial points, the following. I come to two crucial points, the youth judge and the labour auditor. It is obvious that not everyone will necessarily agree on this question: is it really necessary for the prosecutor to be obliged to sit and give his opinion on each occasion? It is also clear that judges who sit in such matters often have an opinion other than those who do not sit in such matters. In our world, one who does something necessarily defends more what he does than others; it is typical! But let's be clear! Each time, in social affairs or in youth affairs, when a magistrate at the seat requires an opinion to be delivered, that opinion must be delivered. In these social and youth affairs, it is not only the prosecutor who decides whether he chooses to give an opinion. The seat may also require that the prosecutor's office, even if it does not feel the need, issue an opinion. I really believe that the concerns that have been expressed at that level have not been rightly expressed. We have implemented fair reform. And more! Moreover, I think that if the opinion were to be made compulsory in social matters and in youth, we would be at risk of inequality in relation to other civil matters, where the opinion is only optional. We have tried, with respect for equality and objective conditions, to make a distinction that will be bearable and bearable with the requirement of equality of the Constitution. As far as the single judge is concerned, I have heard a lot of criticism, but I have heard little about the fact that, generally and always, the justice of the peace, the police judge, the judge in interim proceedings, the judge of seizure, the youth judge, who work in very important cases, sit alone! It is therefore difficult to understand that, in other cases, there should always be three judges. I believe that once again we have held the judiciary accountable and, in this case, the chief of corps who is qualified, selected, appointed because he has powers and competences in matters of organization, in matters of priorities, in matters of law and in all other matters in which he must be competent. I do not believe that a Chief of Staff is unable to develop for his jurisdiction the rules necessary to determine whether or not we need three judges. I would like to admit, Mr Vande Lanotte, that the Chief Constable will have to do so with caution and that in some cases he will have to do so with contradiction. I assume that our Chief Constables are so many that there are not in our country that will do so with skill and that we do not have to lecture them here with all kinds of rules. There is a provision in the law that states in what circumstances the Chief Constable may make an exception to the rule of the single judge. Much has been said about the competence of the young magistrates, but I have also heard some of you say that the magistrate's exam as well as the judicial internship are quite strict and performative. We must admit that our young magistrates are better formed than 50 or 60 years ago. They must also have a three-year seat before they can begin to sit alone. In addition, for example, the parquet magistraat which switches to the seat may immediately begin to sit alone and certain lawyers who become the peace judge may also do so. I am therefore afraid of generalisations in this area and of all too easy arguments. I am not saying that the added value of a room with three is always absent, on the contrary, but it is up to the Chief Constable to decide when this added value should be realised.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u54	Minister, excuse me for interrupting. When you refer to the members of the Public Prosecutor's Office who, when appointed as magistrate, can sit immediately, in the same way as appointed lawyers, do you remember the number of years of experience of the Deputy Prosecutor of the King or the King's Prosecutor or the lawyer? That explains it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u55	I agree, Mr. Massin. But once again, it is the head of the body who organizes the functioning of his court or his court. It is up to him to decide in which type of case a young magistrate, with the experience of a judicial trainee or, where appropriate, a lawyer who has passed the aptitude test, may sit alone. We mustn't hide behind our little finger. I know we're running out of magistrates right now. However, when some courts include more than a hundred judges, there is still a matter to be decided which will sit. Thirty years ago, I met young people who, after six years as a lawyer, sat alone in seizure files – which are not the easiest, but the most dangerous, you will agree. As far as the conclusions are concerned, and some say that the legislation in this area is a bit shaky, let us be clear: it is intended to make life easier for magistrates and to give lawyers the opportunity to organize their resources and arguments in a rational manner. Mr Vande Lanotte, I believe that there is a difference between the obligation to reply to our Legal Code and the obligation to state reasons for the Constitution. You may have understood that many people in the judicial world have called for the so-called positive motivation that I believe would have been sufficient from a constitutional point of view. We have expressly not opted for the positive motivation, but for an orderly mention of means and arguments and in a manner that, if such a plea or argument is not mentioned in an orderly manner, the court can afford not to reply. That is the only thing that is linked to this obligation of regulation. I have also heard a lot of comments on the appeal, in absentia and public order. Let it be clear, it is certainly not the intention to increase the number of appeals and the number of cases of opposition. In this reform we do not go beyond the application of a number of retouches to the current legislation. It has been announced in the Justice Plan that further progress will be made in this respect. I feel that it would be possible to start a consensus on this in the Committee on Justice and also in this wider Chamber, without wishing to overestimate it. We will certainly make proposals in this direction at the appropriate time, perhaps already in potpourri IV. As far as this law is concerned, however, I believe that the suspension of the appeal is no longer a good thing to limit the number of appeals, on the understanding that the court itself will still be able to decide that its decision is not immediately enforceable. We have had long debates on absenteeism and public order. We have had lengthy debates on law and order. I will conclude earlier on the methodology that we have followed, but it is certain and certain that we have conducted in-depth discussions on this subject in the Committee on Justice. I believe that the work of Parliament and the report are right in this regard. The idea we wanted to follow is clear. It would not be fair if someone who, for whatever reason, does not appear, could invoke or benefit from more ex officio arguments than someone who appears and defends himself. In my view, there must be absolute equality between these two situations. Ius vigilantibus, the pleas which may be raised ex officio must be identical in both cases. Article 630(2) is a good example of such arguments. I have only the Dutch text with me, but we have talked about it in committee. The defendant who does not appear is presumed to reject the jurisdiction of the court for which the case is pending." This is an additional argument which the judge can invoke ex officio in case of default! Territorial jurisdiction is well indicated by the Judicial Code, but this is, in my opinion, one of the only cases in which the legislator himself gives the judge the opportunity to raise ex officio pleas which he could not raise in an adversarial debate. As far as the definition of public policy is concerned, we have done and rehearsed the exercise to repeat, on the one hand, the means of public order which relate to procedure, jurisdiction, judicial organization and, on the other hand, the means of public order which affect the substance. With regard to public policy, which concerns the substance of the case and not the procedure, neither the jurisdiction nor the judicial organisation, we know that this is an evolving concept and in some cases the legislator makes it easier for judges to say what is public policy. We have gone through a number of examples in committee, including the usury interests, where it is clear, at least to me, that we are dealing with elements that affect public order. Mr Brotcorne, if we were to add the mandatory right, for example, to the arguments that could be raised ex officio by the judge when there is a failure, in my opinion, there would be a clear and simple inequality between the one appearing, the one appearing and the one lacking. In my view, this is an inequality that cannot be borne from the point of view of our Constitution. A number of comments were also made on the recovery of claims that were not contested. I do not want to go into the technical nature of these comments, but repeat that it is a case in which the creditor and the debtor are companies and that companies can be expected to be vigilant and properly monitor their unpaid claims. It cannot be so difficult for a debtor who is an undertaking to give the motive, whatever it is, when a bailiff knocks, why he disputes the claim. I do not think that is the point. I would add that a person who is wrong at this time and who forgets to say why he contests the claim and who can therefore be the subject of an enforceable order without a judge having intervened in the sense that we know the court, always has the opportunity to have that enforceable order suspended in the end and to go to the court of first instance to challenge the claim that he had not contested and that, in the meantime, the enforceable order is suspended. It is clear, therefore, that the privilege of the prerequisite is renounced and that is a good thing. Ladies and gentlemen, the limitation period for serious crimes is being extended. It is clear that, technically speaking, this is the only thing I will add to this after the whole debate that we have held in committee and today, the reasonable period of time from the European Convention on Human Rights is only beginning to run when there is a suspicion, so when there is someone who knows that he is threatened with criminal proceedings. It is therefore not true that in this case the use of the reasonable period of time is a valid and valid argument. Colleagues, I will conclude on the methodology, the point with which we started the day. I believe that future legislation on justice reform will always begin with very broad consultation, as we have done with this bill. I fully agree – but it is obviously the privilege of the committee – that hearings should be held at the beginning of the debates in the committee, and that the content of these hearings should be taken into account. I don't feel like we didn't. There was a constructive dialogue in the majority and in the committee, also with the opposition. Finally, at some point, we have to decide. That is what we have done with this bill. I hope that we will proceed in the near future with many other bills. Thank you for your attention and confidence and wish you a good end of the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u56	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u57	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1219/10) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1219/10) The draft law has 91 articles. The bill has 91 articles. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u58	Annex V.Part 2.124 • 69 - Stefaan Van Hecke cs (1219/12) • 36 - Laurette Onkelinx cs (1219/4) • 63 - Christian Brotcorne (1219/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u59	Mr President, as far as Mrs Onkelinx's amendments are concerned, there are three co-signatories. There must have been a problem at the service level when typing. The documents clearly indicate "mevrouw Onkelinx, mevrouw Özen and Mr Massin".
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u60	Excuse me, Mrs Özen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u61	• 43 - Stefaan Van Hecke cs (1219/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u62	Art. 35
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u63	• 53 - Laurette Onkelinx cs (1219/4) • 66 - Christian Brotcorne (1219/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u64	• 54 - Laurette Onkelinx cs (1219/4) • 67 - Christian Brotcorne (1219/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u65	• 40 - Laurette Onkelinx cs (1219/4) • 68 - Christian Brotcorne (1219/11) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u66	Mr President, I asked for the vote on Rules 58 and 63 to be held before the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u67	Those votes will come later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u68	Held: the vote on the amendments and Rules 9, 12, 14, 15, 20, 32 to 40, 45, 51, 57, 58, 63 and 68. Articles 1 to 8, 10, 11, 13, 16 to 19, 21 to 31, 41 to 44, 46 to 50, 52 to 56, 59 to 62, 64 to 67 and 69 to 91.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u69	******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u70	I have received amendments to the draft law amending the Code of Economic Law and laying down several other amending provisions, No. 1300/1. I have received amendments on the amending bill of the Code of Economic Law and various other amending provisions, No. 1300/1. I propose that these amendments be sent back to the Finance and Budget Committee. I propose that you refer these amendments to the Committee on Finance and the Budget. Are you sure you don't mind? No observation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u71	Mr President, I am not hiding my astonishment from you! Much has been said about parliamentary work. On two occasions, the work of the Finance Committee has been postponed. The Minister of Finance had committed himself to come before us to present the tax reform. I see now that we are doing sausage with a bill to amend the 2014 program legislation to anticipate the increase in diesel excises on November 1. I know that you have a budget hole, I know that you are in urgency and haste, due to your foresight, but that is no reason to anticipate such brutal taxes for people in this way! I will remind you that six out of ten people drive diesel in our country. Moreover, we have still not had a general discussion on tax reform. It's sausage, it doesn't look like anything, it's a lack of respect for Parliament! That is not acceptable, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can only support Mr Laaouej's indignation. The chairman of the committee was repeatedly prepared to convene the committee and hold the debate on the tax shift. Again and again that discussion was postponed. An amendment is now being tabled during this sitting. Mr President, you will agree with us that this is not a way of working. You say that everything will be sent to the committee responsible, but in that committee the whole should be discussed and not piece by piece. This is absolutely amateurish. We will oppose this by any means we can.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u73	Mr President, I join my colleagues. I do not want to relaunch the debate earlier on committee work before the start of Parliament, but the members of the Finance Committee wanted to meet before the start of Parliament to discuss the tax shift. The Minister of Finance, several times, has made a false leap and has indicated that he is not available. On the same day, I go to the Social Affairs Committee and I see that it was available. There has been a systematic refusal to discuss the tax shift announced to the press by the government as early as July. Here we are witnessing a sausageing of this tax shift. We wonder when we can discuss in a comprehensive and serious way this important reform for the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u74	Mr President, I would like to be more positive than my colleagues because there is clear progress. We usually find such amendments on our committee table without the ability to analyse them before we have to decide. It's obviously a joke I want to make. Yesterday, in the general debate, two requests were made very clearly by my group. The first request of the majority and the government is to work less urgently, less to try to impose texts very quickly, which cannot therefore be the subject of the correct parliamentary debate in democracy. We made the second request on the basis of what happened this summer. My colleague and co-head of the group, Mr Kristof Calvo, wrote to you in early August asking for a special meeting of the Finance Committee on the overall content of the tax shift. It is not permissible for the government to hold repeated press conferences, announce agreements and refuse to answer the legitimate questions of parliamentarians. And then, we get an emergency part of the tax shift. It is not a satisfactory way of working, whether from an intellectual point of view or from a democratic point of view. I would like to recall our request to work less urgently, to have the capacity, as early as September, to meet regularly with committees so that they can do their work. And not just the Justice Committee, but all the commissions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u75	I now give the floor to Mr Top, to whom I should like to apologise, because he actually asked to speak first.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u76	Mr President, on 2 October, at the request of our group, a joint committee meeting was held between the Finance and Home Affairs committees on the issue of information security in the various administrations in our country. The Deputy Prime Minister for Security, Mr Jambon, briefly presented the report of the OCAD and the various other security services after the committee meeting. Secondly, he replied that he had requested an external audit and that he would receive a report on 15 October. I quote from the report: 'I will also make that report available'. Mr President, given the seriousness of the matter, I would ask you to hand over this report to all Members of the Chamber as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u77	Mr Top, I believe that these are two different questions, but I will ask them and let them become Members of the Chamber as soon as possible. Now we are talking about the amendment that was mentioned earlier, also by your group colleague, Mrs Temmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u78	Mr President, the chairman of the committee will not contradict me. Our agenda is already very busy, because the Finance Committee has not met for a long time. There is a project on the financing of the European Union. It is a relatively heavy, relatively technical and extremely important subject at the political level. Indeed, it concerns the financing of the European institutions with considerable budgetary implications for Belgium. However, we do not sit in the Finance Committee to compensate for the lack of organisation and the unpredictability of the government. This way of working is completely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, without wishing to repeat our appreciation of the substance of the tax reform here, I would simply like to refer to the regulation of the work. Yesterday, our group expressed the ambition to work in a good, different way over the next parliamentary year. There has just been some indignation about proposals to start faster and better. Here, however, we are given an example of a way in which we absolutely must not begin the parliamentary year. After Mr Van Rompuy has played under the same umbrella with the Minister of Finance twice, and for a debate on the loose ends of the tax shift, he has not wanted to bring together the Parliamentary Committee on Finance. (Protests from Mr Verherstraeten) No, Mr Verherstraeten, you may replicate in a moment. There was a commitment to convene the committee for a debate on the outstanding questions on the tax shift. That debate has been postponed twice. In any case, we have not noticed that the chairman of the committee has tried to give Parliament's control a place in the past few weeks. Perhaps that has happened, but at least the committee meeting has been postponed twice. We now have this amendment on the increase in excise duties. Do Mr Van Rompuy, Mr Verherstraeten, Mr Dewael and their colleagues know by the majority that many elements are included in the Rules of Procedure in order to delay such matters? I would therefore urge the majority to discuss this procedure and not to start the parliamentary year in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u80	Mr President, I will not go into the substance of the matter. However, the accusation that Mr Calvo is sending to the chairman of the Finance Committee is unjustified. Mr Calvo, you and your political groups have the ambition to amend the Rules of Procedure in order to develop activities in Parliament in September. At the moment, the Rules of Procedure say, and you know this, that after the last part-session of July to the first part-session in October, following the State of the Union, there is a special arrangement for the convening of committees, with the right of initiative and responsibilities of the relevant minister and the President of the Chamber, and that the chairman of the committee must also take this into account. So do not blame the chairman of the Finance Committee for something he is not responsible for.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u81	Mr Verherstraeten, of course you know better than I do, and you are following this closely. I take note of the fact that you say in your way that the Minister was Mr Van Overtveldt who did not want to answer Parliament in this matter. I didn't know that. I don't know that either. Mr Van Rompuy, I apologize for what I just said. I am very pleased that Mr Verherstraeten has made it very clear that Mr Van Overtveldt has not been at Parliament's disposal in recent weeks. What we do master, Mr Verherstraeten, is how we approach this. I hope you will support the invitation of our group and the opposition to start a different parliamentary year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that everything was ready as far as the meeting of the Finance Committee on tax-shift was concerned. We tested last weekend, and today the final decisions have been taken with a view to that tax shift. So I guess it couldn't have happened sooner. Sir, Calvo, I believe you wanted correct and detailed answers. You will be given this in the next week on the basis of this amendment. This is an agreement to enter into force on 1 November. So there was no other way in which we could introduce this. That's why it happened this way. I know, Mr Calvo, that you, like me, have said this in the previous legislature, but I promise you that in future we will ensure that such situations occur as little as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, I take note of your promise, but you will agree that, if we know that a particular measure must be introduced at a certain time, we must take it back to the time when the measure has to be adopted. That is what you have done with an amendment, but of course that is not the point. This way one can do everything in pieces every time. Once again, I repeat, we are not blaming the chairman of the Finance Committee. He has made repeated attempts to do what we have asked. The Minister refused. The Minister must now also bear the consequences of the fact that one of the measures will not be introduced in time. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u84	Mr President, first of all we must do Mr. Van Rompuy, since he has tried, at least three times, to organise a debate on the tax shift in the Finance Committee. Then, Mrs Wouters, you have already increased the VAT on electricity. You could have done it because it's just a royal decree. However, you have always presented the increase in taxes on consumption as one of the elements of the tax shift financing. A draft royal decree must not go through parliament, that is true. On the other hand, for excise duties, you're stuck and you have to come with a bill. You do not want this second means of financing to be preceded by a general discussion about your political philosophy, which we are contesting. In this regard, a commitment has not been fulfilled. Obviously, by postponing the tax shift debate twice, you have tried to save time to allow you to increase taxes without a democratic debate. That is what is at stake, Mr President: Parliament is being deprived of a real debate on tax reform!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, I take note of each other's remarks. Nevertheless, we must decide on the request to refer this amendment to the Finance Committee. Does the House agree that this amendment should be sent to the Finance Committee? If the House does not agree on this, then we will have to sit down and stand up. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u86	As far as Mr Top's question is concerned, the committee will request the report from the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u87	In accordance with Article 8 of the Cooperation Agreement of 12 June 2013 between the Federal Government, the Regions and the Communities for the establishment of the Inter-Federal Centre for Equal Opportunities and the Fight against Racism and Discrimination, the Chamber of Representatives is to appoint two Dutch-speaking male alternate members and one French-speaking male alternate member of the Executive Board of the Centre. In accordance with Article 8 of the Cooperation Agreement of 12 June 2013 between the Federal Authority, the Regions and the Communities to establish an Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities and the Fight against Racism and Discrimination, the House of Representatives must appoint two Dutch-speaking male alternate members and one French-speaking male alternate member of the Centre's board of directors. Following the call for candidates for these three mandates, published in the Belgian Official Journal of 18 June 2015, the following applications were submitted: - Mr David Baele (N), Deputy Hearing Officer at the Supreme Court of Justice; - Mr Charles-Eric Classe (F), labour inspector of Hainaut; - Mr Selahattin Kocak (N), communication manager and diversity at the Royal Flemish Football Association; - Mr Daniel Soudant (F), Managing Director delegated to 'CLARA' and 'CLARA production'; - Mr Victor Yangandi (F), Deputy Advisor to Legal Affairs at the Institute of Industrial Revisors. Following the call for candidates for these three terms, published in the Belgian Monitor of 18 June 2015, the following applications were submitted: - M. David Baele (N), Assistant Auditor to the Supreme Council of Justice; - Mr. Charles-Eric Clesse (F), auditor of Hainaut's work; - M. Selahattin Kocak (N), responsible for communication and diversity with the Koninklijke Vlaamse Voetbalbond; - Mr. Daniel Sudant (F), managing director with 'CLARA' and 'CLARA production'; - Mr. Victor Yangandi (F), Assistant Legal Affairs Advisor to the Institute of Corporate Reviewers. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 September 2015, the CV of the candidates was delivered to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 September 2015, the curriculum vitae of the candidates was transmitted to the political groups. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u88	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, and with the exception of the proposal No. 1349/1 by Mrs Smeyers and Mrs Zuhal Demir and Mr Peter De Roover, Mr Wouter Raskin and Mr Jan Spooren, I consider them adopted; these proposals are sent to the appropriate committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there are no comments on this subject and with the exception of proposal No 1349/1 by Sarah Smeyers and Zuhal Demir and MM. Peter De Roover, Wouter Raskin and Jan Spooren, I will consider that consideration as acquired and refer the proposals to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 14 October 2015, I also propose that you consider: - the draft law of Mrs Sonja Becq and Mr Raf Terwingen and Mr Servais Verherstraeten amending the law of 29 June 1964 on the suspension, postponement and probation of the absence of prior convictions (No. 1368/1), - the draft law of Mr Raf Terwingen, Mrs Sonja Becq and Mr Servais Verherstraeten amending the Criminal Code as regards temporary and permanent incapacity (No. 1369/1), - the draft law of Mr Georges Dallemagne and Mr Benoît Lutgen and Mrs Vanessa Matz amending the Code of Belgian nationality in order to provide for a ceremony and an oath for persons who have acquired Belgian nationality (No. 1374/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u89	- the draft law of Mr Michel de Lamotte, Mrs Vanessa Matz and Mr Benoît Lutgen amending the Income Tax Code 1992 in order to promote the supply of agricultural production surpluses (No. 1372/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u90	- the motion for a resolution by Mr Michel de Lamotte, Mrs Vanessa Matz and Mr Benoît Lutgen on the fight against food waste (Doc. 1373/1); - Mrs Catherine Fonck's bill amending the Law of 5 July 1994 on blood and blood derivatives of human origin to allow people suffering from genetic haemochromatosis to give blood (No. 1375/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u91	- the motion for a resolution by Mrs Evita Willaert, Mr Georges Gilkinet, Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Mr Stefaan Van Hecke and Mr Gilles Vanden Burre and Mrs Anne Dedry on the automation of access to social rights (Doc. 1376/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u92	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 14 October 2015, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill by Mrs Sonja Becq and Messrs. Raf Terwingen and Servais Verherstraeten amending, with regard to the absence of previous convictions, the Act of 29 June 1964 concerning suspension, suspension and probation (No. 1368/1); - the proposed law of Mr Raf Terwingen, Ms Sonja Becq and Mr Servais Verherstraeten amending the Penal Code with regard to temporary and permanent incapacity (No. 1369/1); - the bill of Messrs. Georges Dallemagne and Benoît Lutgen and Mrs Vanessa Matz amending the Belgian Nationality Code in order to provide for a ceremony and an oath for persons who have acquired Belgian nationality (No. 1374/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u93	- the proposal for a law by Mr Michel de Lamotte, Mrs Vanessa Matz and Mr Benoît Lutgen amending the Income Tax Code 1992, with a view to promoting donations of surplus agricultural products (No. 1372/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u94	- the motion for a resolution by Mr Michel de Lamotte, Mrs Vanessa Matz and Mr Benoît Lutgen to combat food waste (No 1373/1); - Mrs Catherine Fonck's proposal for a law amending the Law of 5 July 1994 on blood and blood derivatives of human origin, aimed at enabling people with genetic haemochromatosis to donate blood (No. 1375/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u95	- the motion for a resolution by Mrs Evita Willaert, MM. Georges Gilkinet, Jean-Marc Nollet, Stefaan Van Hecke and Gilles Vanden Burre and Anne Dedry to automate access to social rights (No. 1376/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u96	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u97	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the following draft laws: The government requested urgency pursuant to rule 51 of the Rules when introducing the following bills: 1. Draft law laying down various provisions on social affairs, No. 1297/1. 1. Draft Law on Miscellaneous Provisions in Social Matters, No. 1297/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u98	Mr President, I did not speak earlier. Imagine that this government is able to vote taxes by November 1st, I wish it a lot of courage. Now you're announcing another text, with a snoring title, that doesn't mean anything. I would like to know more about the content of this text, in order to know exactly what is happening before I can take a decision on anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u99	Yesterday and the day before yesterday, we had a great debate on the state of the union, on the government's statements. We had a good discussion on the revitalization of democracy, including representative democracy and social dialogue. The ink is barely dry that the government returns by asking for urgent voting on a whole series of projects, which means that parliamentary rights are removed in the consideration of bills. Is this serious? It must really be denounced. We don't even have an explanation of why. Is there an urgent need to go through this procedure so important? I'm asking the majority. Earlier, we had a debate on this issue of leave, where I said that democracy must be properly lived. Do it! [[Brouhahaha]] Show you're doing it! You applauded me earlier, keep going!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u100	They'll end up believing that their proposal is good.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u101	Mr President, I heard from you that it was the government that called for urgency. A representative of the government is present; let him speak, and do it now. Let him explain the reasons. A minister is here: he represents the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u102	Mr President, you doubtless wondered why I wished you a good continuation of the day. That's for you to have some indulgence with this government representative, who's always there when there's some discussion about urgency. I understand that it is better not to be there. So, we can say anything we want from you, and you go out without a problem. I'm not 100% informed, but I think I know. It's like justice: 90%. That's the biggest thing I've ever said! I understand there are four projects. The two from Minister De Block are withdrawn as to their urgency. I thought you had been warned before you started; that's what I thought I understood. There's two more left.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u103	I would like to ask you, Minister, what draft laws are you talking about? I see a bill which I know belongs to Mrs De Block. I don't see the other thing. I shall give the floor to Mr Maingain and then to Mrs Kitir, pending some clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u104	Mr President, in view of the subject, I understand that the minister says he is unhappy. He makes think of the sick guy who asks for the room pot. He doesn't know why, but he believes that it relieves him. The majority are asking for urgency, they don't know why, but they believe that it relieves it! [[Hilarity]] For the seriousness of our work, it is better to stop there!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u105	Mr President, with all due respect, this is no longer serious. This discussion comes back every time. It is not that difficult and it is not so much a question of adding a statement of reasons to an urgent request from the government. That is not difficult, but it is always necessary to have this discussion, one time a little harder than the other. I don't get it. Mr Minister, if you yourself say that there is a proposal for which urgency is requested and you do not even see what that is, then that is very sad.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u106	I understand there's a problem, but I'd like you to listen right now. The government withdraws the request for urgent procedure with regard to Mrs De Block's text (draft law No. 1297/1) and Mr De Croo (draft law No. 1355/1). The government maintains its request for urgency for two draft laws. If you'll allow me, I'll explain. The first draft law relates to the Supreme Court of Justice and the election of the new members. It's a draft of the Justice Department and therefore of your servant. Mrs. Kitir, I have the accident to know something about it. Article 259a/1 of the Civil Code provides for that procedure to be elected. The elections will take place in March 2016. The newly elected members will take up their duties on September 1, 2016. The call for such elections will take place in December 2015. Since the Supreme Court of Justice belongs to Parliament, I must ask you to amend that procedure, for the simple reason that the law sets an age limit of 63 years, whereas today the bill, which will hopefully be adopted, stipulates that magistrates may stay on for up to 70 years. That age limit should therefore go up to 66 years. Secondly, there is no provision for a procedure in the event of equality of vote, which leads to annoying consequences. For these two reasons, I would ask Parliament to deal with this small draft law in a matter of urgency by December 2015. With regard to the second draft law, my colleague, Mr Francken, asked me to read you an explanation. Because I don't know it, but I understand it, I'll lead it through reading. I will do that in French because I just spoke in Dutch. The preliminary draft relates to an amendment to the Act of 15 December 1980 concerning access to the territory, residence, establishment and removal of aliens. The preliminary draft aims to deal more effectively with the influx, repeated requests and successive appeals, pursuant to Articles 9a and 9b. In practice, it turns out that foreigners often submit a new application while their previous application has not yet been processed. Furthermore, applicants often do not expect the outcome of their appeal and, pending the outcome of the proceedings, file a new appeal. This entanglement of claims and remedies could lead to problems of legal certainty and continuity of public service which the government must guarantee to litigants and society. As a result of the current overload of work faced by asylum authorities, it is urgent to deal with this bill in order to help address this overload of work. These are the two urgent requests that are accepted and for which the government is seeking your agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u107	2. Draft law amending the Law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals, No. 1310/1. 2. Draft law amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, residence, establishment and removal of aliens, No. 1310/1. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u108	3. Draft law adapting the provisions of the Court of First Instance on the election and appointment of members of the Supreme Court of Justice, No. 1343/1. 3. Draft law adapting the provisions of the Judicial Code relating to the election and appointment of members of the Supreme Council of Justice, No. 1343/1. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u109	I would nevertheless like to take this opportunity to urge the government to explicitly motivate requests for urgency in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u110	These inquiries were developed in the Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture on 8 October 2015 These interviews were held in the Committee for Business, Science Policy, Education, the National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture of 8 October 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 061/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Karine Lalieux; - a simple motion was tabled by Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Patricia Ceysens and Len Dierick and Bert Wollants. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 061/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Karine Lalieux; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Mr Patricia Ceysens and Mr Leen Dierick and Mr Bert Wollants. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a few words, why have you tabled a motion? To remind the government of certain things that it had promised:- shut down nuclear power plants by 2025 – the minister may have said, but no longer said yes; - to develop alternatives without delay; - to maintain the basic contributions at EUR 250 million and the supplementary contributions at EUR 350 million – the Constitutional Court has again given the State the right following Electrabel's appeal against the government's decision. - To ensure that reactors extended beyond 40 years receive a contribution equivalent to at least 70% of the profit margin; - Finally, this is the most fundamental thing, so that no convention can be signed with Electrabel without a bill being tabled on the table of this Parliament. I remind you that this bill must come before November 30, and I hope that urgency will not be called for, in order to allow for a real democratic debate. As he has not yet passed first reading in the government, I feel that this will be a challenge.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to recall here that the minister has had the opportunity to respond in committee to these various inquiries that are taking place even before the bill has come to Parliament – as you have said, Mrs Lalieux. The Minister's approach is consistent with the principles established by the consistent jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court. The aim is to establish a permanent method of calculation which establishes as objectively as possible the amount of the nuclear rent while ensuring that receipts are made to the State funds. In the interests of transparency, the CERG will be responsible for the verification of the cost and calculation of the operator's income which will be taken into account in the calculation of the nuclear rent. The minister recalled that, unlike Tihange 1, the owner will no longer be paid for his investments. Similarly, the fee for Doel 1 and Doel 2 will guarantee annual revenue until 2025 for the State. We will not fail to discuss this at the time of the bill that will come to committee. I assure you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u113	Mr. Chairman, in addition to what Ms.Lalieux has said, which I fully agree with, I am very concerned about the intervention of Ms.Casart, who is announcing a bill. In 45 days, the deadline is up. There are therefore 45 days left to vote on this law. I assume that this text will come soon. We are not going to ask for urgency about such a text. I would therefore ask Mrs Cassart, as she has mentioned in her speech, or the representatives of the government, to tell us when this text will arrive in Parliament so that we can study it at our ease and without asking for urgency. When will he arrive? We still haven't seen it coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u114	Ms.Lalieux and Mr.Nollet, I told you at the outset that the minister had answered your various questions, saying that this bill would come to the benches of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u115	Mr President, in committee, we have indeed debated at length all this, which concerns not only the energy supply but also the risks of a waste disposal plan. We have therefore issued a number of alternative solutions. They were all rejected. We question the fact that, if on 30 November 2015, as has been said, this draft agreement with Electrabel is not voted, the law of extension of nuclear power is immediately obsolete. Let the government be aware of this! I would therefore like to see no urgency on this project. It is important enough that to be properly analysed in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u116	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 1) Yes 83 Yes No 52 No. Abstentions 0 Abstentions Total 135 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u117	Vote on Amendment No 25 of Laurette Onkelinx cs leaving out Article 9. (1219/4) Vote on Amendment No 25 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to delete Article 9. (1219/4) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[40]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 70 by Olivier Maingain on Article 12. (1219/13) Vote on Amendment No 70 by Olivier Maingain to Article 12. (1219/13) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 48 Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 69 by Stefaan Van Hecke cs on article 14. (1219/12) Vote on Amendment No 69 by Stefaan Van Hecke cs to Article 14. (1219/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 34 Yes No. 91 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 36 by Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 14. (1219/4) Vote on Amendment No 36 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Article 14. (1219/4) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 50 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 63 by Christian Brotcorne on Article 14. (1219/11) Vote on Amendment No 63 by Christian Brotcorne to Article 14. (1219/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 52 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 37 by Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 14. (1219/4) Vote on Amendment No 37 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Article 14. (1219/4) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 50 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 50 by Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 14. (1219/4) Vote on Amendment No 50 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Article 14. (1219/4) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u118	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 14 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 14 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 64 by Christian Brotcorne on Article 15. (1219/11) Vote on Amendment No 64 by Christian Brotcorne to Article 15. (1219/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes [[43]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 15 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 15 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 39 by Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 20. (1219/4) Vote on Amendment No 39 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Article 20. (1219/4) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 36 Yes No. 91 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u119	Mr President, I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u120	It's noted, Mr. Thiébaut. Vote on Amendment No 43 by Stefaan Van Hecke cs on article 20. (1219/4) Vote on Amendment No 43 by Stefaan Van Hecke cs to Article 20. (1219/4) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[41]] Yes No. 91 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 20 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 20 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 26 from Laurette Onkelinx cs to the omission of Article 32. (1219/4) Vote on Amendment No 26 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to delete Article 32. (1219/4) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes [[29]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 32 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 32 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 27 of Laurette Onkelinx cs leaving out Article 33. (1219/4) Vote on Amendment No 27 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to delete Article 33. (1219/4) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u121	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 33 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 33 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 28 from Laurette Onkelinx cs to the omission of Article 34. (1219/4) Vote on Amendment No 28 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to delete Article 34. (1219/4) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u122	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 34 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 34 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 29 from Laurette Onkelinx cs to the omission of Article 35. (1219/4) Vote on Amendment No 29 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to delete Article 35. (1219/4) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u123	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 35 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 35 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 30 from Laurette Onkelinx cs to the omission of Article 36. (1219/4) Vote on Amendment No 30 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to delete Rule 36. (1219/4) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u124	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 36 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 36 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 31 from Laurette Onkelinx cs to the omission of Article 37. (1219/4) Vote on Amendment No 31 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to delete Article 37. (1219/4) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u125	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 37 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 37 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 32 of Laurette Onkelinx cs leaving out Article 38. (1219/4) Vote on Amendment No 32 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to delete Article 38. (1219/4) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u126	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 38 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 38 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 33 from Laurette Onkelinx cs to the omission of Article 39. (1219/4) Vote on Amendment No 33 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to delete Rule 39. (1219/4) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u127	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 39 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 39 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 34 of Laurette Onkelinx cs leaving out Article 40. (1219/4) Vote on Amendment No 34 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to delete Rule 40. (1219/4) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u128	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 40 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 40 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 71 by Olivier Maingain on Article 45. (1219/13) Vote on Amendment No 71 by Olivier Maingain to Rule 45. (1219/13) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yes No. 104 No Abstentions 29 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 45 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 45 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 35 from Laurette Onkelinx cs to the omission of Article 51. (1219/4) Vote on Amendment No 35 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to delete Rule 51. (1219/4) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes [[29]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 51 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 51 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u129	Mr President, I voted yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u130	Vote on Amendment No 52 from Laurette Onkelinx cs to the omission of Article 57. (1219/4) Vote on Amendment No 52 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to delete Rule 57. (1219/4) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[41]] Yes No. 90 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 65 by Christian Brotcorne to omit Article 57. (1219/11) Vote on Amendment No 65 by Christian Brotcorne to delete Rule 57. (1219/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes [[43]] Yes No. 91 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected and Article 57 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 57 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 53 of Laurette Onkelinx cs leaving out Article 58. (1219/4) Vote on Amendment No 53 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to delete Rule 58. (1219/4) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes [[39]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 66 from Christian Brotcorne to the deletion of Article 58. (1219/11) Vote on Amendment No 66 by Christian Brotcorne to delete Rule 58. (1219/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes [[43]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. At the request of Mr Vande Lanotte, we shall vote on Rule 58. (1219/10) At the request of Mr Vande Lanotte, we vote on Rule 58. (1219/10)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u131	Mr President, I would like you to explain the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u132	It's at the request of Mr. Vande Lanotte.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u133	Mr President, I asked for a vote on Rules 58 and 63, because there were proposals to delete them. These are simply two votes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u134	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 82 Yes No. [[45]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 128 Total As a result, Article 58 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 58 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 54 by Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 63. (1219/4) Vote on Amendment No 54 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Rule 63. (1219/4) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 50 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 67 by Christian Brotcorne to omit Article 63. (1219/11) Vote on Amendment No 67 by Christian Brotcorne to delete Rule 63. (1219/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 52 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mr Vande Lanotte has withdrawn his request to vote on Rule 63. Rule 63 has therefore been adopted. Article 63 was therefore adopted. Vote on Amendment No 40 by Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 68. (1219/4) Vote on Amendment No 40 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Rule 68. (1219/4) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes 49 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 66 by Christian Brotcorne on Article 68. (1219/11) Vote on Amendment No 66 by Christian Brotcorne to Rule 68. (1219/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes 52 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected and Article 68 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 68 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u135	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u136	Mr President, today's discussion has shown that majority and opposition read a lot of good things in the draft. I am thinking in the first instance of extending the limitation period, which we have been asking for for a long time. I am thinking of the fact that from now on we will be able to legally communicate electronically and the fact that uncontested debts can be recovered more quickly and easily. As much as we would like to support all these things, my group will abstain in the vote on the draft because there are a number of things where the budgetary reasons prevail. I am thinking first of all of the fact that the three judges will increasingly be replaced by one judge and that the obligation to state reasons will be simplified. Such provisions will not benefit objectivity and correct case law. That is why we will abstain on the whole of the draft, which contains a lot of good things, but also a number of things with which we do not agree. Mr President, I would like to add one more thing. I found last week that some people are taking advantage of our gremium to ask for applause for sports performance. It seems to me that the Chamber of Representatives does not really seem to be the place to deal with this issue. I would like to inform the House that last night my city colleague Greg Van Avermaet was elected Flandrien for the third year in a row and for the fourth time. That's a unique achievement. No cyclist has shown him that yet. That is an achievement that deserves at least as much applause, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u137	The method adopted - the pot-pourri method - obliges us to have a global vote on a series of provisions that do not necessarily have to see one another. I explained earlier that the examination of the balance would lead the cdH group to vote against the draft. However, I would like to point out that other proposals could have been voted on if they had been disjointed, and in particular, I will be very clear in this respect, the proposal to extend the limitation period which I supported in committee and which would have received the support of the cdH group had it been dissociated from the whole project.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u138	I said it earlier. Of course, it is not all that needs to be thrown into this bill. Like my colleague Brotcorne, I am a little disappointed. Indeed, we have a global potpourri mixing a lot of things. While some deserved reflection, others could get a quick vote. I heard the minister say earlier that for the other projects that were coming, we were going to get hearings again. I hope so. The only thing is that I hope that the specialists will come to us again, but that this time, if amendments are tabled, with a view to improving the text, they will be taken into account differently. I cannot hide from saying today that justice for the accused appears to be discriminatory. That's very unfortunate. We're talking about prescription today. It is true that enlargement can be envisaged, but I would point out that most of the major financial dossiers which are not covered today by the extension of the statute of limitations will get them the statute of limitations! If we did the count, about 90% of the large financial files that are in the hands of Justice Claise will go into the trap for lack of prescription. I believe that there are some political responsibilities in this House. This type of question should have been asked instead of considering only part of the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u139	Mr President, I would like to join the previous speakers. I have already said in my speech that we have a number of positive things and that we want to give a number of elements the benefit of the doubt. This has also been made clear by our vote on the amendments. We support the principle of limitation and have said so. It is annoying, however, that many different things are brought together in this potpourri. That, of course, does not make it possible for a party in the opposition to simply give the confidence. It is precisely the opposition's job to distrust the government. In case of doubt, we will not pass the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u140	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 23) Yes 83 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1219/14) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1219/14)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip077x.u141	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 22 October 2015. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 22 October 2015. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 22 October 2015 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 22 October 2015, at 2.15 p.m.
