ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u1	Colleagues, documents were tabled yesterday by Minister Galant at the Conference of Presidents. You will also find a list of those that Ms. Galant did not want to submit for confidentiality reasons. For his part, Mr Ledoux sent a considerable number of documents this morning. I asked the services to speed up their work so that they could be distributed at the time of their presentation. We will now look for Mr. Ledoux, who is waiting in the next room. Mr Ledoux, we welcome you to this Committee on Infrastructure. Please be aware that all the documents you have spontaneously communicated to our committee have been reproduced and handed over to all members. You know how important the moment is. Indeed, statements were made in committee, in plenary session. Charges have been laid, both by the minister and by the administration. It is therefore important to clarify the file relating to the appointment of Clifford Chance. You know that Parliament deserves transparency and truth. So that's what we expect from you. You will, of course, have the opportunity to make a presentation. After that, parliamentarians will be given the floor. Having said that, ladies and gentlemen, as usual, we will try to allocate speaking time among the different groups by respecting the order of importance of the parties. I hope that our work will proceed with respect for everyone. Several members of the same group will be able to speak, but the speaking time of each group will have to be respected. Mr Ledoux, we will now listen to you with all the necessary attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in response to your request, I rise before you in my capacity as President of the Mobility FPS and therefore as an agent of the state. I have just forwarded the most important documents relating to the dossier to the secretariat of the committee. These documents trace, mainly through e-mails, the genesis and factual evolution of the file. I would point out from the outset that I can rely only on the information available to the administration. This is obvious. I should also like to apologize for the rather mechanical way in which the following chronology has been prepared. Such a chronology is, however, essential for understanding the evolution of events. On October 23, 2014, at the request of the Minister's Chief of Staff, I contact Me Remy of the Clifford Chance Law Society to agree to a meeting in the matter of "Aide aux compagnies". Mrs. Offergeld previously gave me her gsm number because I didn't know that lawyer. My phone bill confirms that at 9:44 a.m. on October 23, I contact Me Remy for 3 minutes and 16 seconds and request dates that may be appropriate for the meeting with the minister's office. On the same day, at 12:04 p.m., Clifford confirmed his availability and sent me several meeting dates. I immediately inform the firm and report to them the absence of an alleged conflict of interest on their behalf. That was indeed one of Mrs Offergeld's requests. In the following days, the cabinet of the Minister asks me what procedure is to be followed for external performance in the field of legal services. On Wednesday 29 October, on the basis of a note from the Legal Service of the SPF, I reply first that, for a small amount and given the urgency and confidentiality of such a file, we are not obliged to go through a procedure with three offers. On the same day, I submit the list of lawyers who have been called upon by the CPS over the years. On 1 November, I transferred to the firm a summary addressed to me the day before by the legal service of the SPF. This note concludes that the choice of a law firm is not entirely free. In practice, it advocates a negotiated procedure, in accordance with the Law on Public Procurement. On Monday, November 3, I send a member of the minister's office a list of the files that were in progress with Stibbe, one of the lawyers we work with. It concerns the forwarding of an e-mail, sent by Stibbe on 26 October 2014, to the Minister's Head of Office, Ms. Offer Money, at a presentation meeting. Also on Monday, November 3, the minister's office has now fully understood the need for a competitive process. He sends me a draft specification for the competition of three companies including Clifford. The terms of reference specify the purpose of the mission: first, to respond by 3 December 2014 to the questions put by the European Commission to the Belgian State in the context of the "Aid to airlines" dossier; second, to assist the Belgian State in a strategic reflection on State aid. The criteria recommended are detailed in the e-mail which is made available to the Commission. In response to this e-mail, I would like to inform the firm at 5:36 p.m. of the terms and conditions that should be followed for the invitation to tender. First, the Finance Inspectorate's agreement must be reached if the market value is greater than EUR 31,000. In addition, the Financial Inspectorate must be shown to be inescapable. Secondly, if the market value is greater than 85 000 euros, the Minister of Budget must agree. Third, a reasonable period of time must be respected to allow the lawyers contacted to respond. It is difficult to imagine reducing this time limit to less than 7 days, given the present case. Fourthly, it will be necessary at the end of the process to obtain the agreement of the auditor of commitments. In response to my e-mail, on the same day at 5:49 p.m., the minister's office questioned the amount that the contract could represent. According to the firm, it would exceed 31 000 euros, but he does not know if it could exceed 85 000 euros. The same day different exchanges between the cabinet and myself on the content of the specifications will follow. The firm makes it clear to me that their idea is to keep Stibbe in charge of representing the state before the commercial court and to "rebate the cards" concerning the response to Europe and strategic thinking. The next day, Tuesday, November 4, 2015 at 10:10 a.m., the firm informs me by email that it has finally decided to operate as follows: Stibbe will follow up on legal proceedings and will write, together with the firm and the SPF, the response to the European Commission and Clifford will ensure the reflection on the government's future strategy for measuring the airport sector. At that time, therefore, there is clearly no longer a question of specifications or a contract procedure. In the same e-mail, the firm states that it will contact Clifford to explain the outline of the mission and that it will also contact Stibbe to inform them of its decision to work on two fronts and with two teams. On the same November 4th, at 2:48 p.m., the Minister's cabinet will explain to Clifford Chance how the division of labour was decided. The cabinet states that it wishes to entrust part of the assignment to the lawyers of Clifford Chance. The cabinet asks them about their fees. In addition, a few hours earlier, at 11:06 a.m., I communicated to the Minister's office details of the average rates charged by Stibbe, a law firm whose importance on the square is no doubt. The hourly rate of a junior lawyer varies between 115 and 155 euros, that of a senior lawyer varies between 210 and 265 euros, that of a partner is 365 euros. Also, according to my services, the average hourly rate for a firm of this size is between 202 and 244 euros excluding VAT. On Wednesday 5 November at 10:24 Clifford Chance gives the cabinet the different formulas for the hourly allowances it wants to apply. This shows the following hourly rates excluding VAT for different lawyers after, says Clifford, a significant 30% discount compared to its regular rates. These rates are as follows: the proposed junior lawyer's hourly rate is 225 euros, that of a lawyer is 350 euros, that of another proposed lawyer is 400 euros, that of the proposed partner is 425 euros and that of the counsel rises up to 600 euros. Alternatively, Clifford proposes a blended rate, i.e. a flat-rate combined hourly rate of 385 euros excluding VAT, applicable regardless of the lawyer. Following this e-mail, at 11:59 a.m., the minister's office asked us about the formula that could be preferred by the administration. The firm also states that it will inform Stibbe of how he organized the work. That's what he'll do the same day at 3:31 p.m. As far as tariff preference is concerned, for the record, I had already informed the minister's office the previous day about the much lower fees charged by another major firm. So it is true that we have proposed to the cabinet that we should opt for the lowest rate. Also on 5 November, at 3:59 p.m., the firm informed Clifford and the SPF that it had chosen the blended rate formula. He proposed a meeting with Clifford and Stibbe on November 13, 2014. On Friday, November 7, at 4:48 p.m., the cabinet tells me, in very clear terms, that the minister's office wishes to work with Clifford for the missions better described in this e-mail. The firm reconfirms its acceptance of Clifford's proposal to work on the basis of a blended rate formula, which applies to all the team's lawyers as an hourly package of 385 euros excluding VAT. He indicated that he would contact Clifford to agree on the modus operandi of this formula from the beginning of the term. It closes with this request for me: "Can I ask you to do what is necessary with your administration for their official mandate?" At 19:01 I will forward the instructions of the cabinet to the legal department of the FPS and I ask him to do the necessary and contact me if he would need more explanations. The next day, November 8, I'm talking to the head of our legal department. We agree that, given the absence of a contract and the failure to carry out the necessary legal procedures, which we had informed the firm as early as 3 November, this request for a mandate could not be followed up. We'll let the firm know verbally. On 13 November the first meeting in the cabinet will take place in the presence of Clifford, Stibbe and the FOD. During this meeting, Stibbe and the FPS are asked to send documents to Clifford. Stibbe must send him the two questionnaires of the European Commission and the answers provided by the former firm. The SPF, for its part, must send the documents relating to the pending proceedings to the Council of State and the Commercial Court. Then there are eight months in which the administration will have no view of the nature and financial scope of Clifford's benefits – despite numerous requests from the firm. As of 6 February 2015, the head of the FPS Legal Service is also concerned about the possible costs associated with Clifford's services. He talks about this with the budget manager of the FPS. As explained in the May 22, 2015 e-mail to the minister's office, this situation is worrying because it prevents our services from making any budget forecasts. At the beginning of July 2015, we still do not know whether we will have to honour any bills at the beginning of the administration's budgets or whether, on the contrary, Clifford's bills will be paid for the budget items reserved for the firm. Also, on July 3, 2015, I send a new request for information to the firm, which remains unanswered. This lack of information raises problems with regard to the monitoring of our budget, which is also supported by the internal mail traffic of 13 July 2015. On September 24, 2015, for the first time, the minister's office will provide us with an estimate of the fees incurred on the basis of draft invoices, as well as a forecast budget for the entire year 2015. We find that these projects were forwarded by Clifford to the Minister's Office on March 27, 2015, six months earlier. In total, Clifford's estimate as at that date is for an overall fee volume of EUR 488,500, excluding VAT, representing a total disbursement of EUR 591,085 including VAT for the entire period from 2014 to the end of 2015. It is also only then that we learn the objects of the missions that were entrusted to Clifford, as well as the extent of their budgetary impact. These documents, which were transferred to us on September 24, 2015, made us aware of the importance of the benefits actually entrusted to Clifford. On this basis, therefore, my services are finally able to submit, on 1 October 2015, a request for the commitment of provisional appropriations amounting to €400,000 to cover Clifford's expenditure, to be honoured during 2015. The application for a commitment, signed by the Minister, will also be submitted to the Treasury Inspectorate for approval, as stated by the Government. As of October 16, my services forward the five final invoices received in the meantime to the Minister's office for validation. These final invoices are in all respects identical to the draft invoices attached to the email of 27 March 2015. It should be noted that the invoices received relate to a total amount of EUR 147,318.79 VATC and cover only the period from 29 October 2014 to 18 March 2015. To date, no other invoices have been received by the Administration. On 30 October, without any reply from the firm to our validation request, I re-examined the latter in order to ascertain his position on the possible payment of invoices, taking care to recall the legal circumstances. On November 1, I learned in the press that the minister had decided to suspend the contract that binds her to Clifford. I would like to make it clear to the committee that, in addition to the content of the file you were delivered today, my administration has no knowledge of any contract. In conclusion, I acknowledge that an error of assessment was made on 29 October 2014. This error was quickly repaired as of November 3, 2014 in an email that you read and informs the firm of the procurement procedures to be followed. This was followed by various advice to the Minister's Office on the avoidance of a potential conflict of interest among bidders and on the minimum time required for the submission of bids. Subsequently, the minister's office instructed the administration to mandate Clifford. It is therefore indisputable that the investigation originates from the firm. If the administration has a duty of advice and advice, it is also required to comply with and follow the instructions of its appropriate minister. Let us also take this opportunity to take the opportunity of the report of the Finance Inspectorate, which was published yesterday, to inform the members of the committee of two things. First of all, it does not seem to me that the Finance Inspectorate has examined the case under the prism of the legislation applicable to special sectors, since the rules are different in this respect. More importantly, let me inform you of the initiatives we have taken following the publication of this report yesterday. Indeed, in addition to the measures taken at the beginning of the legislature with the minister on the double signature and monthly statement, since October 2014, of all public contracts awarded by the SPF, I have decided, with my teams, that all contracts, without exception of amounts, will go through the Finance Inspectorate. Similarly, I will ask my colleagues at the College of FPS Presidents to carry out a benchmark of practices in the various federal departments in order to establish an irreproachable procedure in public procurement. Let us be clear, we will not be able to go back to procedural errors or unfortunate interpretations of services, but it would be unfair to reduce to these events the work of 1,100 staff of the Mobility and Transport FPS who carry out high-quality work with an unusual commitment, dynamism and sense of responsibility. As chairman of this administration, I would like to take this opportunity to assure the members of your committee that the whole administration and I are working together to ensure the safety of our citizens in all the modes of transport they use. For me, the work and dedication of each of my agents in the service of all users is a source of daily pride. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u3	Mr Ledoux, thank you for the clarity of this presentation. Colleagues, you have received all the documents that were referred to by the President of the Mobility FPS. Mr. Ledoux, we heard your call. Let us not reduce to this problem, the work of all your employees of the Mobility FPS, which, I am sure, serve the State in a completely correct way on a daily basis. It is important to remind him at this time not pleasant for them. Colleagues, as far as the organisation of our work is concerned, I propose that we proceed as usual because it works well. Each group has a limited speaking time of 10 minutes for a first round. This speaking time can be divided between the desired number of colleagues in each group. Then Mr. Ledoux will answer the questions. I ask you not to speak too quickly, since Mr Ledoux must take note of all the questions. I am convinced that there will be a number of them. Do we agree on this way of working? Yes. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for that. Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, I give you the presidency for a moment, while I ask Mr Ledoux my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u4	Madam President, Mr Ledoux, thank you for your detailed explanation. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to make too long a statement. I understand that we are talking about three contracts awarded from the minister's cabinet. The totality of that award has remained within the agreed budgets. There is a legal interpretation as to whether or not the market should be questioned, and I can imagine that this could be interpreted. In any case, the Treasury document shows that this way of acting from the Minister's cabinet did not happen for the first time, because it would have worked in this way in the past. Now that we know that, I cannot get rid of the impression that the opposition has made an elephant out of a mosquito. However, we regret the agreement between the Minister and the administration, which has been seriously clouded. I think it is important for the Minister's cabinet to see that good cooperation with the administration, with the wealth of experience, knowledge and expertise available there, is indispensable. We also think that the FPS should accept that the political line is set in the cabinet and we should assume that the administration is loyal to the political line. I think it is necessary for both sides to show mutual respect and loyalty to each other, because that is crucial in the conduct of a constructive policy. When we look at the past, we see that the former ministers, then Minister Wathelet and Secretary of State Fonck, have somehow come into open conflict with the FOD. In my opinion it is a bit ironic that the cdH of all is so strong in leather today. I don't think that's a hundred percent believable. I think it is the opposition's duty to oppose it, not on the basis of a legal error that might or might not be there, but on the basis of a substantive story. I have a specific question for Mr Ledoux: how do you see the cooperation with Mrs Galant's cabinet in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u5	I will also be very brief, since Mr Raskin has already outlined the situation in detail. I have only one question for Mr Ledoux: can you confirm that you have already worked in this way in previous legislatures for the designation of law firms?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u6	Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Ledoux for his very clear statement. I would also like to thank him for all the documents he has provided to us. When we go through them quickly, we can see that some of them were not provided to us by the minister at the request of the Speaker of the House, including all billing requests. Indeed, the administration was not aware of all the expenses that had already been incurred at the level of the minister's office. Mr. Ledoux, it can indeed be seen that you are the one who is asking the minister's office to receive billings in order to establish your budget. This is a new data. There has always been a reference to €400,000, whereas the cabinet apparently reports €500,000. Can you confirm this information? I would also like to thank you for giving us a form of benchmarking of lawyers' tariffs. Indeed, this allows us to make a comparison. I would like to point out here that this information was not provided to us by the Speaker of the House. But it is not Ms. Galant's responsibility, since it was the president who, according to him, complied with the professional secrecy of lawyers. In any case, in your demonstration and in front of the documents you provided us today, we are certain of one thing, it is that Mrs Galant and her firm have been manoeuvring from the beginning. It was Mrs. Galant's office that appointed the firm Clifford – or I misunderstood what you told us. Second question: it is clear that you made a mistake. You made a mistake on 29 October when you hesitated about competition and compliance with market rules. This error, as you said, you recovered a few days later by explaining to the firm what the rules of competition are: the consultation of several offices, a minimum period of 7 days, then the changeover to the IF, the changeover to the Budget, etc. I therefore think that the firm designated the firm Clifford and that it knew the rules of the market since they had been recalled four days later with, it is true, an error of the administration. This error must be acknowledged, but later the firm knew the thing. There was a telephone interview on October 23, 2014 between yourself and Clifford. You explained it to us earlier. This was the first contact in this case. If I understood correctly, it was not you who took the initiative to contact Clifford; it was at the request of the minister's office. Why this firm and not another, since it is not specialized in aeronautical affairs? At that time, did the cabinet tell you that it was only about the overflight of Brussels? Only the question of state aid? Has he ever told you about Belgocontrol? Indeed, we discover in the invoices that, suddenly, he must also take care of Belgocontrol? These are very specific questions about this first telephone contact, since there is no written record. If I have heard you correctly, but I would like to hear it again, for you, the firm was duly informed of the rules of public procurement and nevertheless decided, without competition, to appoint the firm Clifford. We knew the amounts were going to be significant. Today we discover that they reach 500,000 euros. I come to the Finance Inspectorate's report. The Inspectorate says that there was no competition but Mr Demonceau, whom I do not know but whose name appears in the e-mails, told you that he was drafting a specification. He wrote it on 3 November; therefore, he was going to compete. It's a good reflex on the part of a staff member. Then there is a discussion with Mrs Galant's chief of staff and there, the specifications disappear, the competition disappears and they appoint the law firm the next day, unilaterally. Do you understand that in this way, when the co-worker understood what the rules of a public procurement were? It is true that you had reminded the Finance Inspectorate and the Budget of the request, and a reasonable period of time for companies, so the plural, which means that you really said that you had to consult several companies. In the e-mail of 4 November 2014, Galant announces that he wants to work with Clifford and confirms it on 7 November. He says, "I'm going to work with the Clifford firm." At that time, you know that. At that time, you know or do not know that the amounts will be more than 31,000 euros. Who decided not to seek advice from the Finance Inspectorate? If I understood you correctly, it was because you were out of the game that you didn't ask for it; you thought it was up to the Galant cabinet to do it. I'd like to hear from you on this point. The budget department of the Mobility FPS estimated, in a note addressed to the Finance Inspectorate on 1 October 2015, of which you have given us a copy, that 400,000 euros had to be reserved for benefits. Where did this estimate of EUR 400,000 come from? You actually had to ask for a lot of bills. You didn't get them, and all of a sudden, you're told 400,000 euros or even 500,000 euros. What's bothering us is that there's no contract. The actual mission, the mission evaluation, the hours of delivery, the mission beacons given to a firm are not known. We really have the impression that the state lacks rigour at that time. Usually, when you designate a law firm, do you make a mission order, an agreement, a contract? In this case, we did not receive anything from Ms. Galant's office. Mr Ledoux, irregularities have indeed been noted in your Mobility FPS. This must be addressed because competition is a matter of good management and good management is paramount. We must not forget that these are public funds. It's citizens' money. Tomorrow, the Mobility FPS must respect the rules. It's important. To make an honourable fine before Parliament is obviously an attitude that we would like to see in politicians as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u7	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I am pleased that we can finally return to the path of parliamentary work after these few weeks when the debate has spread a little to other places. It was important for us to be able to audition you, to be able to shed all the light on the unfolding of the events on the case in this case. Thank you for giving back your version. I would have liked a little more to be done on the overall functioning of the Mobility FPS, but we will come back to it in other circumstances. I don't doubt it. In the wake of your speech, but also in the light of the report of the Finance Inspectorate that we received yesterday, I would like to ask you a series of questions to make transparency, all transparency and nothing but transparency – that is, I think, the objective pursued here by everyone in this room – and to better understand also the functioning of your FPS. With regard to how you operate, I would like to know what were the practices and rules that dictate the collaboration between your administration and a firm. Your presentation seemed unclear to me in this regard. The Finance Inspectorate's report also notes two shortcomings in compliance with legal obligations: a lack of competition for many markets and problems in seeking prior notice. It tempers, acknowledges, the seriousness of these two offences by invoking the evolution of the legislation. There have been several reports of the difficult technical context in which the administration and the firm must work. In addition, it is recalled that "we have always done this way". It's obviously not an argument of weight, but we're going to have to change things. In any case, in the light of this opinion, we can go back to the reason given some of the comments made here. I would also like to ask you about the role of the administration and your behaviour as a guarantor of legality. You ran all the e-mails in front of us. I won't come back because I don't have time. If a problem of legality really arose, why didn't you be firmer and limited to a phone call, why didn't you write a much more formal note? You indicated that you had returned to your October interpretation. For my part, if I look at the e-mails that I have read correctly, I note that you are delighted with one of the elements highlighted by the Finance Inspectorate, namely the use of the latter, the Minister of Budget or the government as a whole. However, you do not return with sufficient firmness to the question of the legality of the procedure, in any case from the point of view of competition. Furthermore, if we look at the specific case of the tender, you mention a whole series of fees. But I thought, in the name of confidentiality, we couldn't disclose attorney fees. However, they are included in a number of documents that have been transmitted to the press or here. It's not up to me to judge. In this respect, I simply believe that benchmarking should be extended to other SPFs in order to see if these amounts are abnormally high. Secondly, the flow of invoices does not seem very clear to me. You received them, then you sent them to the firm. I would like you to shed some light on this, because it seems a little blurry to me. We will not, of course, come back today to the air bill, which we will be dealing with at a later date. Parliament has not yet heard of this project. It appeared in the press and I regret to have had to see that a version already appeared which is not definitive. And I also have questions in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u8	We'd like to have that room!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u9	It was the one that was presented to the RTBF.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u10	Mr. Foret, please proceed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u11	I hope she gets here...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u12	That would be interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u13	That's right. We will have it in the context of parliamentary work. Don't anticipate! I say here that I regret the leaks that have taken place in this case in recent weeks. To conclude constructively, I would advise that in the future such leaks should not occur. Perhaps it would be useful if, as head of the administration, you were to carry out an investigation to determine what happened and from which these leaks concerning working documents, which we will study later, in the serenity of the parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u14	I would like to add a few points to what my colleague Gilles Foret has just said. Mr. Ledoux, I feel a little bit like you're playing the white rider. In the absolute, it's a bit of your role, actually. And since your term as President will last another four years, we wish you every success in this mission. All the more so since the minister really wants to have excellent relations with you. I would point out, however, that under the previous minister, Mrs Fonck, there have already been very serious tensions between the president of the SPF and the minister, which have even led to decisions to narrow down the president's duties. And Mrs. Fonck can't even be suspected of being an opponent of you. I think it's always better to sweep in front of your own door. And when we have tense, difficult relations with successive ministers, who are not of the same political tendency, we must ask ourselves whether we should not question ourselves; we must always do so because it is human and healthy. That's an important point. On the other hand, earlier, you were a little bit fond of me because you mentioned the fact that while you spoke extensively about the exchange of e-mails, all of a sudden, for a point that is important, you told the cabinet'verbally' that you did not agree. You're a man of'mail' and it's very good, we're in the 21st century, but at least it would have earned you the trouble of writing or even making a recommendation, if any, about it. As far as fees are concerned, I'm a little surprised. The issue of fees is related to the problem of the traditional CPS lawyer. You yourself in your e-mails seriously question – and you take responsibility for it – the previous law firm, saying that it is far below the need for its task. It's your responsibility, it's not the minister. Therefore, I find it logical in this case that, according to your own assertions, the minister wishes to diversify the use of lawyers. So, somehow, she follows you doing this. I think it's kind of your role to give advice to the minister. Finally, I would also like to raise the issue of public procurement. In our communes, we are well aware of the way in which lawyers operate, but as I know, what has been denounced - and rightly so - is also practiced in your administration, together with previous ministers. Everyone agrees to go back on track, but I don't see why Mrs Galant is being wrongly sued, who simply followed the lead of her predecessors and the administration before.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u15	Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Ledoux for coming to our committee to explain what happened in the Clifford case. I would not like to focus too much on the Clifford case in my speech, because many questions have already been asked and many facts have been raised. The report of the Treasury Inspectorate makes certain comments on this matter, which have already been discussed here. Personally, I think the relationship between the administration and the minister is much more fundamental. Mr Raskin has already referred to this. Mr Ledoux, within the domain of our committee, of your department and of the minister's cabinet, there is a great deal of important work on the shelf, including the railways, the flight law, the distribution plan and road safety. It is therefore particularly painful to see again today the gap between you as head of that administration and your minister. I think that raises some questions. I started looking in history, in press articles, and I ended up mainly in the French-speaking press, because on the Flemish side this lives much less, I have to admit. Well, I have to say that such important incidents do not occur for the first time. There were also important incidents with Minister Galant's predecessors, Mrs Fonck and Mr Wathelet. Those incidents always came up at times when important decisions had to be made about the flight law, the distribution plan and so on. I'm starting to ask myself a few questions. It is up to you to answer these questions in a moment and give your version of them. The link to the airport file raises questions. Just at such times, working papers come out, documents without any status, but these documents are good or bad for certain action groups. The links between these action groups and you as head of the administration have already been demonstrated. We can therefore ask ourselves whether we can use such a way of working in the important public domain of Infrastructure, with powers on road safety, railways and airport files. Can we work properly on policy decisions, which should be implemented by the administration? In essence, therefore, I agree with Mr Raskin's question. Mr Ledoux, how do you see the future cooperation with your custody minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u16	Madam President, I welcome the explanation we have received today, but I would like to go into this in more detail, because I have heard some contradictions between Mr Ledoux's statements and some of the e-mails that have been made public. For example, Mr Ledoux, there is the mail you sent to Mrs Sacrifice from Saturday 1 November 2014. In your speech earlier, you said that there was a clear advice given by the FOD, while that mail, delivered to you on 31 October, shows that there are different possibilities. It is therefore an interpretation that we can go into in more detail. Can you explain this to me later? How do you come to the interpretation that it is a very clear advice, whereas the e-mail says that there are different possibilities? The conclusion is that "empty ferenda" is not subject to public procurement rules in the run-up to the transposition of the Directive, but always respect the rules relating to the specificity of legal services and the deontological rules. In practice, non-recurrent files/problems are dealt with in the classic/old way. There are therefore several options, while you state in your speech that there was a very clear opinion. Secondly, you quoted an e-mail dated Tuesday 4 November 2014. If I have heard you correctly, you have not read one sentence from that e-mail. You read the e-mail completely, but I didn't hear one sentence. It is possible that it is up to me, but can you confirm later whether or not this phrase was in it: "Doit-il y avoir une démarche formelle du SPF vis-à-vis de Clifford"? The cabinet is therefore asking very clearly what steps need to be taken. In my opinion, you did not mention this earlier when reading this e-mail. There is, of course, also the opinion of the Treasury Inspectorate, which clearly indicates that Minister Galant's cabinet is not to blame. It followed the same procedure as its predecessors, in accordance with the old legislation dating back to 2006. In the opinion of the Treasury Inspectorate, it is quite clear that its working methods were correct, but not entirely according to the letter of the legislation in force. There are also a lot of comments about the method of working of the FOD. You were asking yourself to stop working with Stibbe and you also suggested links between Stibbe and certain action groups. Many fellow Members have already asked questions about the leaks from your administration. That is what we need to look into today. Mr Raskin, Mr Van den Bergh and Mr Foret have already referred to the need to ask questions about the leaks and their causes. Is that a proper way to work? In this way, can good cooperation be ensured between a senior official, the cabinet and the minister? There must be an important basis of trust in order to work together. I don't think it's the first time we've had any problems here. Several fellow Members have already said this. It is important to stress again today that there were similar problems in important decisions by several successive ministers. It is clear that we have a breach of confidence here, which must be resolved. I therefore support the question put by my colleague, Mr Foret, to investigate the leaks. We need to be able to expose this. We need to be able to show where there have been leaks. We need to make sure that this leads to consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u17	Long live transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u18	Vive la transparency, indeed. I think it is important in this dossier to create transparency. You could have done that today by giving the correct presentation of the facts. I feel like you didn't do that, that you've been selective. That's why it's important to answer my questions. From a political point of view, I believe that Mr Wathelet and Mrs Fonck of cdH have done the same thing as Mrs Galant has done in this regard. It followed the chairman of the SPF. That's important. It is your role to inform the cabinet sufficiently with your administration. That's your job. You must ensure that the proper procedures are followed. This must be possible in all transparency. I think we should learn from this, but above all we should look at the problems in your administration. They must be dealt with and resolved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u19	Thank you, Mr Ledoux, for coming to this committee. Unlike my two predecessors, I will only focus on Clifford Chance's file. I thought the committee was meeting for this today. I've been studying this file intensively lately. For me, the core is the interpretation of the word "gunnen". Is this an award of an open tender, an award tender, an award report? Or does the word "gunning" have a different meaning in this matter, in particular: "Dear friend," I'm going to give you something now? Look at the history of this file. The government will be formed on 11 or 12 October. Ten days later, I see the first instructions, e-mails and answers from Minister Galant's cabinet to go to Clifford Chance's office. Ten days after the formation of the government, this is decided by the cabinet. Contrary to my Dutch-speaking colleagues and some reports in the French-speaking press, I asked questions about this dossier to the Minister last week. Those who do not believe that can read the report. In essence, the Minister's answer was that she was, as it were, transferring the blackbird to the FOD, because a mistake had been made in one e-mail, in which it was stated that a market survey might not be necessary on the basis of legislation. The legislation in force states that in certain cases it is not necessary for law firms, for example in the event of urgency or for certain contracts. For a new flight law and such it has always been necessary and two or three days later it was corrected. I have studied the file further, as we received yesterday. My conclusion is that the cabinet has taken the lead from day one to point out Clifford Chance. I challenge the members of this committee to make a different conclusion. At some point there was a manoeuvre on which I would like more clarity. On 3 November it was said that three offices are possible. Were those three offices contacted, too? I read that Stibbe couldn't because of other files, but were the lawyers at Philippe & Partners' office contacted? Did Philippe & Partners sign a contract? In essence, my question is: why did the Galant cabinet choose Clifford Chance? I now put that question to Mr Ledoux, and I will also put it to Minister Galant. That office was not on the list that was delivered to us today, nor in the documents that we saw yesterday. How does Clifford Chance get the choice? Even more remarkable is the following. On 4 November it was decided to designate that office. This was confirmed by e-mail in the morning. In the afternoon there was an email asking by the way for the fare. It seems like someone in a shop is taking a television set and asking at the cash register how much they actually have to pay. Well, I have seen five invoices for a total of EUR 147 000. Never was the tariff discussed. Only afterwards did the question arise as to how much the rates actually amount. What happened between 3 and 4 November? Where's the contract? Who signed that contract? Mr Ledoux says in other e-mails that he has not seen anything else besides those five invoices. The majority of my fellow Members who are here seem to have more information. Well, what has been done for the amount of EUR 147 000, which was invoiced on 31 March? Has any of my fellow Members seen any documents indicating that this amount has been worked on? What's the result of that work? It is important, however, that we, Members of Parliament, be allowed to know what has happened and what has been done. If you buy a TV without knowing what it costs, you can watch TV afterwards. Here, however, a contract has been concluded that we have not seen. Does that contract exist? We also do not know what has been asked. That's the question for me. Mr Ledoux, thank you for coming here, but I cannot help noticing that you are included in this dossier, Mr Ledoux. I apologize for being so rude. In the decision on the file, you were in CC from time to time. There may still be e-mails that you do not know exist, and neither do we. That is actually a problem: you know absolutely nothing about contracts, especially about rewriting the flight law, one of the important tasks of your administration. Is it true that you only have those five invoices? In later e-mails, including this year, I read that your administration is asking how much should be budgeted. Has there ever been an answer to that or is the file incomplete? It is difficult for me to imagine that Mrs Galant's cabinet did not reply to your e-mails. I do not think that is the case, because last week's report reads the following: 'Mon kabot et moi entretenons avec tout le personnel du SPF dovellettes relations basées sur le respect et l'l'écoute'. The collaboration between my firm and the various DGs is harmonious. So I really think that the Minister's answers are still missing from the dossier. We will soon receive the e-mails, because in the context of harmonious cooperation, I believe that part of the dossier needs to be supplemented further. Finally, Mr President-in-Office, it was also a note from the Finance Inspectorate. Your administration is being tricked into doing so, Mr Ledoux. I hope that the comments of the Inspector-General of Finance will be taken into account effectively in the future. The majority goes into the interpretation of the legislation in more detail, but the essence of the story is that Minister Galant's cabinet bears the political responsibility for this, no more and no less. That is why we absolutely want to discuss this with the Minister at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u20	Mr Ledoux, thank you for your information. I would have preferred to discuss with you the very important issue of the Brussels overflight, but I hope that we can do so in a few months' time. The main problem you have faced is that the minister imposed a law firm on you to manage a case, which was called "State Aids" in 2014 for between 40,000 and 80,000 euros and that in 2015, you realized that the firm was working not only on "State Aids" but on the Vliegwet and on a law on Belgocontrol. It is the expansion of the minister's mission to Clifford Chance that creates the problem between a modest budget and a colossal budget. You learned on September 24, 2015 that Clifford was working on the Vliegwet, but in the exchange of e-mails, among other things the one of November 4, 2014, where there was a question of future strategy towards the air sector, was that what you thought was implied? Indeed, there is a different nomenclature. There's the Vliegwet, which was written by Clifford. There is the future strategy towards the air sector, which was mentioned in an e-mail of 4 November and in the invoice of 29 September, it is mentioned "Flight tracks". Do you think it's the same thing? On the Vliegwet, on which draft bill (there were three, drafted under MM. Landuyt, Schouppe and Wathelet), has Clifford been mandated? What bill did he work on? Have you passed an old bill on which to work? You who have been following the case since the beginning, what offices of lawyers have they worked on the previous pre-projects of Vliegwet? On October 1, 2015, you send a note to the Finance Inspectorate mentioning a budget provision of €400,000 to pay Clifford Chance in 2015. An opinion is given by the Financial Inspector, who is either in favour, with some remarks, or unfavourable. In the present case, however, the Inspector indicates "or". How do you interpret this "either"? Could you also summarize in two or three sentences the various times when you notified the Minister by e-mail or orally, by telephone, of the fact that she was in breach of the statutory procurement requirements? Why did the minister absolutely want to work with Clifford Chance on state aid issues? Clifford Chance is a business firm that knows competition law. In your opinion, who is familiar with the case, why did the minister want to work on the Vliegwet? Why did Clifford Chance work on another subject (Belgocontrol) far removed from competition law, such as Vliegwet? Finally, the billing of the services provided by Clifford ends on March 18, 2015. It's November 2015. The billing date is September 29, 2015. You are president of this FPS, you must provide the budgetary amounts of the government's expenditures. How do you estimate the total cost of Clifford's collaboration? You have no record for 2015 of the seven months they worked on the Vliegwet, the Belgocontrol Act and state aid. How much do you estimate the total amount for the public authorities, you who are the guarantor of legality and efficiency in the use of public funds?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u21	Mr Ledoux, the report of the Treasury Inspectorate is an important document. You're suggesting a benchmark. Do you draw any other conclusions from that? From Mrs Galant's e-mails we deduce that an agreement has been reached rather than an agreement on the price. That's a strange way of negotiating. If one buys a car in this way, there is a good chance that one will buy a cat in a bag. Is that a normal M.O.? Is there a contract somewhere? Did you know about a contract with the law firm involved? Can you give more insight into the various warnings you have given to the Minister? You also mentioned a number of additional contacts, in addition to the various warnings you have formulated and made available by e-mail. The cabinet says that your administration took charge at the time. We deduce from the reports that the cabinet did so. What is your response to the Minister's statement on this matter in Parliament? Is there any particular reason, in your view, why the Minister has not made the invoices available for months, despite repeated questions from your administration? That is an important observation, perhaps the determination of the day. Mrs Lijnen said that we should open the hunt for leaks. There is a selective indignation, apparently a problem with transparency. Mr Raskin says: 'We have always done so, so we must do so now.' The N-VA therefore supports that the Minister repeatedly violates the law on public procurement? Is that the power of change, Mr. Raskin? Is that the attitude of the N-VA in this file? I would hope that we all, the majority and the opposition, will take a different approach to politics in this country. An important area such as Mobility should be better managed by politics and administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u22	Madam President, I would like to take the floor for a personal statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u23	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u24	Mr Calvo, on the basis of the document drawn up by the Treasury Inspectorate, I can see that the same work has been done in the past. I did not say that this is the ideal model and that we must always continue to do so in the future. What is ahead today may be the start of a review of a number of things. The only observation I have made is that in the past, apparently, we have worked in the same way. That's all I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u25	Mr Ledoux, I want to be sure that I understand one thing, that the first time you - or the administration - hear about the bill is on 24 September, when you asked for it on 6 February, 22 May and 3 July. However, in the e-mail you receive on September 24, it is reported, and you forward it to us on page 39 of the documents, of an e-mail which establishes this invoice in fact on March 27, 2015. I want to be sure that you understand that you receive an e-mail dated 27 March on 24 September. Could you also give me an explanation of why, in your opinion, the bill comes almost a year after the start of the work, while on page 39, Clifford says that he proposes to bill in the course of April. However, the bill is only received on 29 September. I need an explanation to understand what's going on behind these elements. Finally, on page 39, we see a start of the bill on "flight tracks and Vliegwet" which amounts to 11,550 euros. On page 40, the amount "assistance in the drafting of the Vliegwet" is EUR 67,500. Then, on page 42, which is not numbered, the amount mentioned is 32,031 euros for the "flight tracks" part. Finally, further on, in draft invoices, the total amount is 27,000 euros. What happens behind this variation in amounts for the flight track component? Could you tell me what the source of page 42 is? Is this an annex to an email that you received? It refers to a period of work on "flight tracks" which begins on 15 December 2014, while, in the invoice which is submitted and which the Minister has given you a copy later, the period of work begins on 24 November. In short, have there not been discussions, negotiations on how this bill would be drafted, on the date of inclusion, on the themes or files selected? I would like to know why it lasted six months and where the discussions took place with regard to the precise drawing up of the invoices, as they are given to us here because, obviously, things have been done at this level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u26	Madam President, my colleague Georges Dallemagne will speak immediately after me. Mr Ledoux, thank you for your very clear presentation and for the documents you have given us. I would like to turn to the President to note by the committee that the documents that were given to us yesterday following the Conference of Presidents are not complete. It is not necessary to be a big cleric to realize that the exhibits mentioned by Mr. Ledoux, dated February 6, May 22 and July 3, which are requests and reminders relating to the status and significance of the costs incurred, are not included in the file provided by the Minister. However, on Tuesday before Toussaint's leave, she had certified us that she was working transparently. At that time, we found that much of the documentation was missing. In this case, essential documents are lacking, as they tend to prove that the administration's request has been ignored. So I would like it to be acted on. This absence of some parts is not annoyed. I haven't seen everything, but our documents end in mid-November anyway. Secondly, Mr Ledoux, I hope that this is the comprehensive record of this case, although there is a lack of an essential legal element, which would allow us to know whether a contract has actually been concluded. It is also a question of examining how benefits are organized in general. That the appointment by the firm is no doubt is not a scoop. Indeed, prior to Toussaint's leave, we had already reported e-mails – notably the one of November 7 – which clearly demonstrated that the firm wanted to work with Clifford. However, I would like to ask you about what happened between the 3rd and 4th of November. Prior to this period, the firm felt very anxious to comply with certain rules, to launch an appeal and to consult three offices. Then, brutally, in one night, he changes his shoulder rifle. I would have liked to know your opinion in this regard. To what do you attribute this change in behaviour, which is initially a good agreement and collaboration with the administration, which provides a series of advice on the legal elements of this file? Why, brutally, is there a change with, in addition, a confirmation that it seems to be the chief of staff who gives instructions, since they say "after having spoken with Dominique" about Dominique Offergeld? I would also like you to clarify. Many things have been said, but there is a total disturbance on the report of the Finance Inspectorate. When I read today's press, I realize that a number of misinformations have been made to try to cover up the problem that is now before us and for which the documents you are transmitting and which the minister has transmitted yesterday are very clear, namely that it is the firm's will to choose Clifford. The report is divided into two parts. There are all the contracts that have been pinned by the Finance Inspectorate. The only contract mentioned as having been entered into by a minister and being illegal is that of Clifford Chance. We're talking about a contract made by a minister. This is point 5.6 "Legal assistance in aviation matters". The Finance Inspectorate says, "There is no procedure that has been followed." On the other hand, and it is interesting to point out, there is another contract with Clifford in another area and there the procedure is followed. We're taking three offers, only Clifford Chance is offering back, and he's the one who's chosen. This contract was concluded and it is also requested by the firm. But this contract was legally concluded, according to the Finance Inspectorate. On the one hand, we find the contracts entered into by the ministers; the only one who has failed to comply with the procedures is the one that we are dealing with today, that of Clifford Chance. On the other hand, a series of contracts are identified in the delegation of authority granted to you at the administrative level in which certain irregularities are noted. In my view, a fundamental distinction must be made. In view of the documents transmitted to us by the Finance Inspectorate, only one contract entered into by a firm is pinned: that of Clifford Chance. The rest was concluded in accordance with the rules of art. I think it is important to stress that. As you recalled during your presentation, you have the ability to conclude certain contracts at the administrative level, a 'delegation'. The conclusion in the light of the documents transmitted today is that they are far more numerous than what was transmitted yesterday. The conclusion following a first reading is that there is indeed an illegality, there was a need for a public procurement and there is a persistence in the non-transmission of documents by Minister Galant who does not want to overburden the case probably, and therefore does not wish to make known that it is his office that has decided to work with Clifford Chance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u27	I'll try to make it quick, Madam President. I would just like to ask Mr Ledoux very specific questions. So you confirm that it was Minister Galant's office that appointed Clifford Chance. Could you tell us if it is the practice of a minister to impose and appoint a law firm himself? You are also telling us that you have alerted us to the need for a deal. Are there any precedents in this area, as ministers have failed to respect the need for a proper market? Thirdly, as Mrs Matz has said, I think this is the first time that it is the firm itself that visibly establishes a relationship with a law firm that you do not know, you say, whose air skills you do not know. Why does the firm make this decision? You also tell us, and that seems important to me, that you did not follow the request for a mandate that was ordered to you by Mrs Galant's office. What is the situation since there is no contract, no letter of intent, and no documents to obtain a specification? Again, is this a usual practice? Are there precedents where you didn't give a warrant, where you didn't follow a minister when he asked you to have a warrant? As far as tariffs are concerned, you said that, of equal quality, some firms were cheaper on the market. Could you please tell us about this, since you did shed light on the fact that this firm is extremely expensive and that it even came out of the highest forks of the best firms in the field. Can you tell us if it is possible to call on another firm in this area? Finally, you have launched several reminders to get the pieces, information. You received this draft bill, as I understand it, for the first time at the end of September when all the work had been done by your administration. Can you tell us what you think of the methodology used by the firm in relation to work already done and extremely advanced?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u28	Mr Maingain, you have a five-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u29	Madam President, first of all, I would like to make a preliminary remark. When I hear members of the legislature say that the application of the law has always been relative to certain types of service contracts and that it is not surprising that the practice has remained unclear, I am surprised that these members do not have any more scruples and demands as to the very observance of the law! If it is not the members of the legislature, who vote the laws, who recall the need to apply the law properly and fully, one wonders who should do so... Secondly, the law on public procurement has been in force since 1 July 2013 and there is no legal uncertainty surrounding the application of this law. This was a line of defence that was given both in the Minister's response on October 28 and in the Prime Minister's response. So, there was legal uncertainty, no, there is no legal uncertainty as to what criteria this type of contract is subject to. That there may have been previous cases within the Mobility FPS and that there are cases in other departments where the law is not properly applied is something else. It is not because others violate the Road Traffic Code, that you are entitled to do so. What is this primary and simplistic reasoning that one continually hears! "In some cases we have not complied with the law, so I allow myself not to do so or I draw an argument of relativity from the application of the law!" It is unbearable to hear such arguments in the very chamber of the assembly that passes the laws. On the other hand, the only real question is the following. At what point did the firm contact the criminal law firm to entrust it with a mission? And what was his specific mission order? We can search for all the documents, but today we do not know the precise order of mission given to this law firm. In fact, we can deduce, unless there is evidence to the contrary – written proof that we are waiting – that this mission has been extended in time, to understand when reading invoices. Reading bills is interesting. First, we didn't get all the documents. One has not, for example, what any law firm does when it respects its ethics: either there has been a prior agreement which determines, by the nature of the services requested, the hourly cost and costs of services other than legal fees, to cover the mission entrusted to it; or there is a precise detail of the tasks performed, invoiced by invoice. I would therefore like to know whether, on an invoice basis, the administration has a specific detail of what the amounts cover, which are not small amounts. These are tens of thousands of euros. In a properly managed administration, an invoice presented in this manner cannot be implemented if there is no other evidence as to the exact mission that has been carried out. If my communal administration receives an invoice of attorney's fees which does not give me the details of its mission or which is not in accordance with the agreement concluded, the communal receiver refuses to execute the payment of the invoice because it is not in conformity with the law. I would like to know today whether the administration finally has all the information on the precise nature of the benefits and what each invoice covers. And I ask our committee to entrust the Court of Auditors with the detailed analysis of the invoices of the law firm concerned. For it is not the task of the Finance Inspectorate, but that of the Court of Auditors, i.e. an organ which depends on the legislative power. And those who are surprised that one can see the nature of the fees of a lawyer's office do not know what the audit task of the Court of Auditors is, and what the legislative power can obtain from the Court of Auditors all the evidence as to the execution of a public expenditure. Perhaps the Court of Auditors Act should be re-read. Some people are surprised that confidentiality is being violated. But the confidentiality of what, in the end? There is a minimum of correction to be made in relation to the legal tasks of the Court of Auditors. We are entitled to complete information on the mission being carried out in order to determine whether these invoices relate to the missions and whether the mission entrusted was so in accordance with the rules. This is the role of the Court of Auditors, and it is possibly the role of the Court of Auditors not to give a visa to carry out the expenditure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u30	Mr Ledoux, thank you for your insight. It is true that the more we move forward in this matter, the more I feel that the faults of Minister Galant are overwhelming. It is quite surprising, in this respect, to see that the majority are now asking for investigations into leaks, whereas if there have been leaks, it is because there has been a lack of transparency on the part of the minister. Let's not confuse cause and effect. Mr Ledoux, you explained the chronology of events. What is surprising is that when you realize that the firm does not want to follow the current rules in terms of public procurement, there is no written mention of it by you. How do you explain it? Secondly, you tell us that the firm Clifford is more expensive than the others since the highest fee you mention is 600 euros per hour, excluding VAT and with a discount of 30%, which makes a full rate, including VAT, of 1,037 euros per hour. We're past Armand De Decker. It is true that he is a former Director General of the European Commission who is a lawyer at Clifford. So we understand that we're paying the price. They are more expensive, it's understood, but are they more competent? In this regard, I have heard that their work on the air law is a real towel and that your administration has had to completely rewrite this law. Do you confirm that? Third point. Of the eight months of silence on the part of the minister's office – I saw your e-mails in the documents you provide – is there no answer at all from the cabinet or are there e-mails where they do not answer the question? I think it's different. If there are e-mails from the firm, we can analyze the answer. I think that would be more interesting. Fourthly, in your e-mail on 3 November at 6:40 p.m., you say to the cabinet: "Budget question, we are far beyond our legal budget as a result of the Wathelet plan's expenses, but that is what we are dealing with." This sentence is intriguing. I'd like your lighting on this e-mail. Fifth, we received a note from the Finance Inspectorate (document 3 received yesterday from the Minister). There are three positions of the law firm Clifford Chance: Belgocontrol, State aid to the air sector, noise pollution. These three posts are charged to organizational division 21, which means management bodies, since 33.21 is included in the reference, whereas it seems to me that for fees relating to legal advice, this should rather be charged to organizational division 52, Air Transport. Do you not think that there is a problem with budgetary charges? It is also evident in the exchange of e-mails that the firm has changed its mind about the response to be given to the European Commission. In fact, at first, he mentioned Stibbe in favour of Clifford. Can you explain this shift? Finally, can you tell us about Clifford's bills, amounts and fee breakdown? Of course, I will not fail to ask the minister the same question, but if you could already inform us about it, that would be interesting. Could you also clarify the rules in force? You talked about some areas that were special and others that were not. We know that there are differences depending on whether lawyers' fees cover litigation or legal advice. Do you have a clear view of the rules applicable in different cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u31	This brings us to the end of the speeches, with a lot of questions. Mr Ledoux, I have seen that you have made notes of this. I therefore ask you to answer the questions asked, preferably in the order of the speakers, starting with Mr Raskin. In this way we can check whether you have answered all the questions. After your answers, the members of the committee will have the opportunity to ask an additional question, if necessary, without replying. Only additional questions can be asked. Mr Ledoux, I give you the floor for the answers to the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u32	Is it permissible to answer in a comprehensive way because several questions have come back regularly? [[Sentiment]] One of these questions is to understand exactly what happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u33	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u34	We can group what happened into four major phases. There is a first phase, which is an exploratory phase during which the CPS prospects Clifford at the firm's request. There is a second preparatory phase in which the SPF and the firm work together on a specification in accordance with the law. After that, there is an enforceable phase, which comes very quickly after this second phase, where the firm decides to resort to Clifford and Stibbe – not only to use Clifford but also to Stibbe – and we have to execute ourselves. The fourth phase is the phase that I would call "smack" where the FPS is kept out of the evolution of the files entrusted to Clifford and where we seek to objective the expenses. But we don't know the amounts or the nature. It is important to understand it. The second point that I would like to mention is that if, indeed, we had an error of assessment in the urgency on 29 October 2014, we are going back to that very quickly. Nevertheless, the firm decides not to make a formal tender and we do not return to the burden in writing. Why? Because we had already done so and we felt at that time that it was not necessary to rewrite it. It was written, it was clear. I believe that, at that time, it is necessary to get back in mind that we understood that the firm's objectives were to respond to the European Union in a dispute file – the "Aid to airlines" file – in an urgent and confidential manner. In this context, although I recognize that it was not entirely in accordance with strict law, the practice could suggest that it was acceptable. Again, we knew the amount was going to be exceeded. In fact, an e-mail clearly confirms that the firm estimates that it will reach more than 31,000 euros, but it does not know whether it will rise to more than 85,000 euros. However, at that time, we remain in areas which, even if not legally fair, are acceptable in terms of practices. That is why we allow ourselves not to come back vehemently to this, because the cabinet having decided, we expect it to give us more precise instructions on this, which will not come. What we see only on 24 September is the very important enlargement of the missions entrusted to Clifford. I want to make it clear that it is not only the increase in spending that can be expected, but the change in nature that matters. Indeed, they are no longer litigation files, they are counsel files. The Finance Inspectorate noted this in its report. I think this is true in all FPS: there is a big difference in the strict application of the law between counsel files and litigation files. It is important to return to these points. Several of you referred to the tensions I had with the then Secretary of State, Mr. Wathelet, and the Secretary of State, Ms. Fonck. This proves only one thing: I am impartial, if I may.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u35	It proves something else too!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u36	I'll leave it to you to comment on it. In any case, I and my administration are trying to defend the interests of the state. When I allowed myself to reply to Mrs Fonck, who was referring to certain elements, it was because I felt that the state's money was being put at risk, in this case if certain decisions were delayed. I conclude this subject by mentioning that it is not in my particular nature, as some would suggest, to have conflicts with everyone. Having said that, I will now try to answer each of the questions separately. It won't be easy. If I fail to do so, please remind me of the order and tell me how best to complete my answers to your questions. Mr Raskin, how do I see the cooperation with the Minister in the future? It's not for me to decide this. For me, anything is possible, I have nothing personal against the minister, against none of her cabinet. We are absolutely ready to continue working with her and her cabinet. All we ask for is respect for civil servants and civil servants, clear agreements and transparency in the way in which decisions are taken. Especially when certain decisions are taken, they should not then be placed on the back of the administration if it had nothing to do with it. It is very important that we ask for the full support of the cabinet to be able to carry out our mission. At the moment there is a specific problem with Belgocontrol, in which we do not have access to important information to carry out our control mission vis-à-vis Belgocontrol. Despite all kinds of questions to Johan Decuyper, the CEO of Belgocontrol, and to the minister or her cabinet, we have so far had no satisfactory answers and therefore no access to those data. You had a second question about the designation of law firms with us. Everything has been clearly explained in the report of the Treasury Inspectorate. Again, I make a clear distinction here between the litiges, the contenteux, and the consultative tasks. We always work with public invitations to tender when it comes to consulting. In litiges, of course, we work with public contracts, but without publicity. We ask three Cabinets to make a quote. We compare prices and we take the cheapest. We've been working with certain law firms for years, decades, like Stibbe. Before that we, and also my predecessors, should have launched new public contracts every three or four years. That is clear and we will do so in the future. Why wasn't that done now? Well, I think that's how it happens elsewhere. The reason is coherence. Stibbe's office is really one of the best in Belgium for the file on the distribution of flights. Those lawyers know the file through and through, since they've been working with it for so long. For consistency, for memory, it is therefore important that we continue to work with that office. Is that an answer to your question? Mrs. Lalieux, you asked me to confirm the amounts. Frankly, I can only refer to the documents I have given you. I think I have read you the exact amount of the estimates to date, namely EUR 591,000. For the time being, we have no further information. This question was asked by others afterwards. I would like to point out that at this point, we have nothing more than the invoices that were sent by Clifford for the period that goes, if I remember correctly, until March. For the rest, we don't have timesheets. We asked for it, but we didn't get it. We cannot say much more at this stage. The details by post for airline assistance, the Vliegwet, etc., can be found in the documents I sent you. You asked me if I considered the firm to be manoeuvring. I think I made it clear in my presentation. You wanted to know who, from the firm or myself, took the initiative. As I explained, Ms. Offergeld asked me to contact Clifford Chance and, by the way, gave me the partner's gsm number to contact - which I did. At the time, the idea was to hear from them as to whether they could advise on aid to airlines as part of our response to the European Commission. There was also a question of to what extent they could help in the Brussels overflight dossier. You asked me if the firm was aware of the rules. Yes, we called them back in the various e-mails. On the other hand, as I have just explained, we had no idea at that time of the proportion that spending could take. We did not really know that until 24 September. I really want to make that clear. Despite all our attempts during 2015, we received no response until 24 September. As you say, an agreement had been reached with the firm to bring three companies into competition. Then there was a change. How is that done? Honestly, I can't answer you. I don't know. Clearly, a decision was made within the firm, which reversed this approach. In any case, I am not aware of the motivations of this shift. Who decided not to apply for the FI? On the basis of everything I have exposed to you, from a certain moment onwards, we were no longer in the manoeuvre. We were waiting at that time for more precise instructions from the firm to act. Where did the amount of 400,000 euros come from? It was communicated to us by the Deputy Chief of Staff of the Minister's Office in response to a request to know how much we had to provide. This figure was mentioned by the Deputy Chief of Staff. I think there are e-mails on this subject, but I do not think I have them in my presentation. To answer Mr. Foret. I think I've already answered your first question: "Why didn't we come back to the charge again?" For the reasons I mentioned earlier; on the one hand, we had already written it; on the other hand, at that time, we felt that it remained essentially a matter of litigation, in urgency and confidentiality, and that if the firm had decided to do so, we simply had to comply. I have noted that you are asking to expand the benchmark. We will. As far as the invoices are concerned, they were communicated to us by the firm, with the delay I mentioned. Let us be precise: I want to talk about the estimation of invoices. Then we received the final invoices which corresponded perfectly to these preliminary estimates. We therefore asked the firm to validate what had been achieved in order to justify these invoices. To date, we have not received a response. As far as aviation law is concerned, you're talking about leaks, etc. I would just like to say one thing about that. How does this start? By an open letter from a union representative as a result of what he expressed as an increasing frustration within the administration over certain practices of the firm vis-à-vis the administration. This then leads to a leak or a statement from Mrs. Galant to a journalist who... you know the rest of the story. If we have to do the leak inventory, I think we should start at the beginning.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u37	That's what I said!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u38	Mr Flahaux, I think I'll repeat myself. You asked me why I spoke only verbally. I told you: on the one hand, we had already written it and we did not think it necessary to rewrite it. And on the other hand, we were in a litigation file, in an urgent, confidential file. We felt that since the firm had decided, we followed. And then we made many reminders throughout 2015, indeed. You asked a question about Stibbe's office to find out what the problems were. It's very simple. I really have to say that we have a high appreciation for their work, otherwise we would not have been working with them for very, very many years. However, on the question of whether to appeal the judgment of the Brussels court which led to the moratorium, there were differences of opinion between the minister's office and the Stibbe cabinet. We didn't understand why Stibbe always came up with this. And we've been wondering. I don't think I've accused Stibbe of anything in my e-mails. But in any case, we asked ourselves questions and alerted the firm. That's all. The problem of public procurement: I think I have addressed the matter sufficiently so far. With regard to your last question, Mr Flahaux, I have noted "Galant in the footsteps of the administration". I don't remember exactly what you meant. Do you remember your last question?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u39	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u40	I'll go over it if you don't mind. Excuse me. Mr Van den Bergh, I have already mentioned the relationship with the Minister. It's up to her to decide how she wants to work with us. We are open to this, subject to respect, clear agreements and, as I said, clear support for the necessary cooperation with certain actors, such as Belgocontrol. Mrs Lijnen, you spoke about my e-mail of 1 November 2014 and the different interpretations. I agree with Mr Maingain that it is very clear, but in practice there are nevertheless different interpretations. I'm not a lawyer. However, I have seen that the opinion could be interpreted; hence my first advice to the cabinet, which was wrong. I acknowledge that. However, we have corrected this quite quickly. I've just spoken out about the relationship with Stibbe. I've already given answers about the leaks. Mr Geerts, were three cabinets contacted? I don't know. Of course, Stibbe and Clifford were contacted. They were awarded a contract by the Cabinet. When I speak of a contract, it is an implicit contract, because they put it that way to those two cabinets. I don't know if Philippe & Partners was contacted, especially by us, perhaps by the Cabinet. You'll have to ask Minister Galant. Why is there such love for Clifford? I don't know. You'll have to ask the Cabinet as well. Until now, we were absolutely unaware that Clifford had some competence in the field of aerobics. What happened between 3 and 4 November? Again, I don't know. It was, I think, discussed internally and decidedly in the cabinet. I cannot comment on that. Did we receive an answer to our e-mails in 2014? No, the first answer came on September 24th. The question was asked whether the cooperation is harmonious. Maybe in words, but in deeds it was a bit of a search. As for your question, Mr Hellings, on enlargement, there has indeed been enlargement, but we were absolutely not aware of this. We were only so on September 24, 2015, as I just said. Again, what is important to note is that we move from files that are originally limited to litigation to counsel files. This makes a great difference in the strict application of the law in practice, even if, from a strictly legal point of view, all cases are subject to the obligation of public procurement. What legislation did Clifford work on? Again, it's found in the documents I gave you, but we don't know any more. What is clear is that one of the big parts has been dedicated to this famous aeronautical law. Another was devoted to developing a fee system for Belgocontrol, of which we had absolutely no knowledge. There are also state aid, some very ad hoc dossiers on the Brussels overflight, etc. You are asking me the question of the 400,000 euros in provisional appropriations. Mr Berger's answer, the Inspector of Finance, is either. I make it clear that he puts "either" on a regular basis. It's not just for this case. Basically, I interpret it as: "I'm a little put in front of a fait accompli". But he accepts it. It would have to be asked, but I think that at that time it is also in the idea, as we were when we made this request, that it was for litigation cases because, indeed, for litigation cases, it is possible to ask for provisional appropriations, not for counsel files, for which another procedure should have been adopted. The outline of the mission would have been better defined and a proper file submitted to the Financial Inspector. "Did you notify the minister?" Through all our reminder emails, we did it. It must be noted that we have not received an answer. "Why did they want to work on the Vliegwet?" It's written in the government note. It is therefore entirely legitimate to do so, and I do not have to comment on how to do so. They did. There you go. Simply, we were not associated. The first time we learned about this Vliegwet draft is July 7, 2015. At that time, we are presented with it as the work of the firm. It is only after September that we realize that this work was carried out by Clifford, with the support of Belgocontrol. We learn this on September 21, through a meeting we have with Clifford for the first time on the Vliegwet. As you can see, on September 24, we finally have an answer to our questions. With respect to the billing of Clifford's services, the total cost is on file. This represents an estimated €590,000 at this stage. That's the total sum. At the end of 2014 until 2015, Clifford and the firm estimate 591,000 euros for their services. You're asking me if I think it's a correct amount, again, I can't pronounce myself because I don't have the details of what Clifford actually did and realized for the firm. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u41	Yeah, or Mrs. Galant's report. Mr Calvo, you mentioned a benchmark. Yeah, we'll do this. You also asked if there was a contract. There's an implicit contract. That's obvious. Is there a written contract? We have no knowledge of that. I made that clear in my report. Warnings? Yeah, all year round. Did they or we take the lead? In my report I made it clear that the lead was in the cabinet. Is there a specific reason? I don't know. You'll have to ask Mrs Galant. I have already answered the questions about the leaks in detail. Mr Nollet, as regards the fact that we receive the first information on the invoices on 24 September, when they were provided by the firm Clifford on 27 March, that is correct and that is reflected in the exchange of emails we received. What is the reason? Again, I can't answer you. I can only ask you to ask the cabinet or Mrs. Galant. For the amounts relating to the Vliegwet, from what I have read, I think we're talking about 200,000 euros in the estimates that were provided by Clifford. But, again, it is based only on what they have communicated to us - and always without timessheet. Mrs. Matz, has there been a contract or not? Again, I think there was a tacit contract - obviously. Is there a written contract? We don't know that. Why this change of behaviour in the head of the cabinet? Here too, I have no answer. Are contracts usually concluded in a variety of ways? Yes, I think that's what the IF report shows – although, as I have recognized, there are things to improve. Who has the ability to conclude? In that case, she's the minister. From this point of view, I would like to take up briefly the delegation's decree of 19 January 2011, which was much discussed at the time - when my delegation's powers had been withdrawn. This text expressly prohibits us from taking decisions in certain cases. In particular, he said that "when the minister designates lawyers for legal proceedings, the president of the FPS has his hands tied". This is Article 8, paragraph 1. If you want, I can get you the order later. Secondly, "the administration has no power when a legal consultation exceeds EUR 10 000 HTVA in negotiated procedure". I can provide you with the table annexed to the Order, if you wish. I think things are clear from that point of view, we had no power as such. Mr Dallemagne asked whether this was a habit. No. Again, I refer to the analysis of the Finance Inspectorate. Has this been done in the past? In any case not in this way and not for consulting contracts. Why did the firm do that? You have to ask the minister. Has there not been a follow-up of the mandate of the application? Is that a habit? No, there's usually a warrant. Here, this has not been followed by any effect, we have not had any specific instructions in this regard. Is it extremely expensive? Yeah, compared to what we're used to seeing. I mentioned – and we were obliged to – to explain the situation of Stibbe's fees. We work with law firms in other areas for even lower hourly rates. I do not rule on the level as such. At that time, the firm found it acceptable. We had no reason to oppose it formally. In terms of methodology, receiving invoices at the end of September, while covering a period from October 29, 2014 to the end of March 2015, is not a habit. I don't think many law firms are used to waiting so long to send their bills. This may be a new practice. The State can only rejoice if it does. Mr Mangain, I think I have answered your question indirectly. To date, we have not received any timessheet. We do not know in concrete terms what has been done to cover the invoices that have been provided to us. We sent two reminders to the firm for information and validation of these invoices. To date, we have received nothing. Mr Van Hees, yes, there is no writing on our part. I think I have responded sufficiently to that. Are they more competent because they are more expensive? I can't really judge that. In any case, what I can tell you is that indeed the draft aeronautical law that we received was not received with much appreciation by my experts. We have therefore given the minister's office a fairly clear note on this matter. So far, we don't have a return to that either. But we have advocated starting from scratch. That is the quality of the document. We didn't get an answer at all. I want to make that clear. Until September 24, we have no response to our requests for clarification on what Clifford is doing and the extent of their benefits. At the level of budgetary charges, I did not note all the figures. We'll have to check. It is possible that there is, from this point of view, a mistake, but that I cannot answer you at this point. Why did they change from Stibbe to Clifford? Here too, I can't answer you. I think only the minister or her office can do so. I think I answered most of your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u42	You're saying there's an overrun of the legal amount.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u43	Which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u44	In an e-mail you write on November 3, 2014, 6:40 p.m., to the firm, you say "Question budget, we are already far beyond our legal budget due to the expenses due to the Wathelet plan, but that, we are dealing with it."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u45	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u46	How?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u47	It had nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u48	It had nothing to do with it? Oh, good. Okay, that's because you're writing this to the Galant firm, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u49	Following the Wathelet plan, we had an explosion of attorney's expenses. That's normal. We've had a lot of litigation, appeals for cessation, etc. There you go. What we wanted was to make it clear that we were monitoring as best we could. From this point of view, my legal department is doing a remarkable job of following the expenses as closely as possible. Hence also our concerns throughout 2015 as to what was happening and whether these Clifford amounts were going to be charged to our budget or whether it would be taken from the envelope that had been granted by the government precisely to make expenses related to the problem of the overflight of Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u50	Thank you, Mr. Ledoux. For the sake of completeness, I do not think you answered Mr Van den Bergh's question about the simultaneous fall of, on the one hand, the time when important decisions have to be taken in the airport file and, on the other hand, the occurrence of incidents between the FOD and the cabinet. You still have to answer that specific question from Mr Van den Bergh. Mr Geerts asked a question about the note from the Treasury Inspectorate. Mr Geerts said that your administration was being tricked into doing so and asked what lessons you would learn from it. I don't think you answered that question either. There was also a question from Mr. Nollet on page 42, but I did not notice correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u51	The question, Madam Chair, was to know the source of this document. Is this an annex to an e-mail? If so, to what e-mail? Indeed, there is a discrepancy between page 42 and page 43 as to the period covered by the "Flight Tracks" file. On the one hand, we are talking about a period beginning on 15 December and, on page 43, we are talking about a period beginning on 24 November.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u52	These were pieces that were attached to the e-mail sent to the firm by Clifford Chance and were forwarded to us later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u53	And it's the same for the following documents in this document?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u54	That's right!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u55	You have seen that the draft invoices, at the time, do not date from September 29th, but from September 7th!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u56	That's right! There are things for us that we do not understand!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u57	This is an annex to an e-mail in March.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u58	I'd have to see exactly. For me, all these documents were linked to the e-mail sent to us on September 24.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u59	Are these appendices attached to the September 24 e-mail or are they attached to the March e-mail?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u60	I'd have to check, but I think we're not in a position to find out. Why? Because when you have an email that is forwarded to you with attachments, and you add attachments to this email, they'll all get at the same level. I would need to look at the exact date of these various appendices to determine if they were added. Most likely! There's no other way!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u61	That means you're checking and sending us the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u62	I'll check and we'll pass on the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u63	We'll go first to the additional questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u64	Mr Van den Bergh, what important decision are you referring to?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u65	I will ask a specific question. After all, I have put a number of things together on the basis of articles: to what extent are you involved or engaged in action groups on the distribution plan? How do you separate this from your position?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u66	I'm absolutely not committed to any action group. It is true that together with my staff I regularly receive action groups to listen to them. We're receiving everyone. We receive action groups from Brussels, from the Oostrand, from the Noordrand. We are listening to what they have to say in order to better understand their appreciation of the problem or sometimes also to refute certain wrong ideas. Recently, for example, action groups told us that the drawings in the Belgocontrol reports were wrong and they had proof of that. We have received them. Together with our expert, we have made them understand that, despite the fact that we did not have all the elements that Belgocontrol should have given us in order to give a definitive answer, their appreciation was wrong. Together with my staff I try to keep as objective a position as possible in this very difficult dossier. Some accused me of being present at a presentation of Belgocontrol and the mediator. That doesn't mean I'm part of these action groups. By the way, I was invited by the mediator to be on stage myself and I thought it was only natural that I was there. I can only refute these accusations in my own name, but also in the name of all officials of the FOD.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u67	Thank you, Mr Ledoux, for your answers. I have an additional question. During your replies you say that you have no access to Belgocontrol and that you have contacted the CEO and the Minister. To avoid having the same debate again in two weeks' time, ladies and gentlemen, does the lack of access to Belgocontrol have to do with the invoice on financing du Belgocontrol? Or are there other elements that prevent the administration from fulfilling its role, because it is kept out of certain important matters by the cabinet?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u68	Madam President, I thank Mr Ledoux again for his substantiated answers. I also thank him because I think he is brave to accept his mistakes, to say that we are going to change certain practices in his department tomorrow and to support his collaborators. Officials are often criticized for never being on the ground. When invited by a mediator, it is normal to hear what the residents think in such a sensitive case, without being overburdened by some. I have a more specific question. I heard there was no contract. However, you indicated that there was a delegation order, that when the minister appointed a cabinet, the administration did not have the power to oppose it and that only the minister could sign. I know there are representatives of the minister here. This afternoon, therefore, I would like to have this Minister's signature on a contract, an agreement. It's fundamental. Otherwise, it's the Far West! One phone call, and we're hiring you! What is your assessment? One million euros. And that's it, we're asking the administration to set this amount on its budget items, and we still don't know what work is going on! Except we're going to start over a law that was drafted by a firm. I recall here that any member of his cabinet cannot sign this contract and that any public servant cannot do it either. That is an essential point that you have reminded us, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u69	Madam President, Mr Ledoux, thank you. Apart from the sometimes teaching side, it was interesting to hear you. So I'm going to give you an impression, although there will be a question. First of all, I would like to congratulate you on having acknowledged your mistake. It is noble to recognize his error. However, I find it a little light that, on such an important aspect of the file, you chose to communicate verbally. I would say that this is another mistake that you must also take on. We are no longer making a mistake! You must assume this verbal communication and not fall behind the other aspects that you have kindly presented to cover you against this second error. Mr Ledoux, I would like to tell you that if you speak very well, you have a problem of communication with your ministers, it seems to me. I'm not going to do the story again. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u70	I'm not just talking about a minister! There will be a question but if I can afford to continue without being interrupted as my colleagues in the MR have already been... I think we have respected the questions and speeches of other parliamentarians. I would like to continue with Mr Ledoux's communication problem. I'm going to go back to the paper on the withdrawal of your financial allocations from Mrs. Fonck. You are the head of the administration and, on this file, you are not aware of anything! You said you didn't know, you sent an e-mail... if you're chief administrative officer, your role is to know! I think you have, on the method of your work, to review a number of behaviours in terms of communication with your ministers. It is not possible that you had problems with Mrs Fonck, that you had problems with Mrs Galant in terms of communication, and that everyone would find that normal! I insist on that. As an anecdote, you could say that you communicate better with the press than with your minister because we know very well that there have been no single-way leaks! I'm coming to the question. I am surprised, when the financial inspectorate's report falls yesterday, to see the head of the administration as little as you do. When I read page 7 of the Finance Inspectorate's report, I would like to say to you, Mr Ledoux, that I would not like to be in your place. I read, in conclusion, on page 7, that the analysis carried out shows that the services of the Mobility and Transport FPS do not always comply with the current rules on public procurement. Frankly, you must not be comfortable either when you see this and when, a little higher, you see the amounts allocated to budgets Stibbe and Vanden Eynde; we are nearly a billion euros! (...): One million euros!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u71	One million euros. We were told in the Finance Inspectorate's report that your department did not comply with the rules for the whole of 2014. So I ask you: can you tell us here, Mr Ledoux, that since the beginning of 2014, all the rules have been respected in your department, and finally challenge, because this is what the Finance Inspectorate's report is about? Because giving lessons is one thing...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u72	Mr. Ducrame, we have to finish now. These are the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u73	It seems to me that, in view of the Financial Inspectorate's report, you must also assume a minimum, rather than rejecting, as you have done since the beginning of this hearing, the fault of your minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u74	Madam President, Mr Ledoux, there are still some remarkable things. For reporting, you did not answer my question whether you might have forgotten just now to read a sentence from the mail of 4 November 2014. You read that e-mail, but I think you forgot a sentence from it, in that context a fairly essential sentence. Secondly, I note that you said earlier, in your first explanatory statement, that you gave very clear advice to the cabinet. I submitted the e-mail to you on that occasion. In your answer to that, you tell me that this is indeed a matter for interpretation. That's how I understood it. I find it remarkable how your answer changes from one moment to the next. Thirdly, in response to questions from several fellow Members, you have replied that you have a great deal of appreciation for the law firm Stibbe, that there were mainly disagreements between the cabinet and Stibbe and that you have never asked Stibbe a question. This is contradicted by several e-mails. Allow me to read a sentence from one of the e-mails. This is an e-mail from you, addressed to Mrs Dominique Offergeld, on Friday 19 December 2014: I've been feeling more and more that they have their own agenda, as I've already told you. I will not read that mail in full, but it is important for the report to add it. Finally, in my opinion, you did not answer the question of leaks. You replied that the leaks started at the Galant cabinet, but you did not answer the question as to how you will take responsibility for preventing the leaks on your administration. After all, it is unacceptable that working texts, such as the flight law, should end up on the streets. That needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u75	Madam President, I have one more question to ask Mr Ledoux. An e-mail dated October 23, 2014, which was sent to us yesterday by the minister, announces that you will meet Clifford Chance for the first time. You will meet their Litigation team to "possibly help you, the firm and the administration, on the file "Avions-Plan Wathelet". A meeting took place. At the end of this meeting was it decided that they would work on something other than "State aid, litigation with the Commission"? By way of conclusion, after hearing you, it is clear, contrary to what Mr.Ducarme says, that the political responsibility lies entirely with the minister in choosing the cabinet, in the mandate for its missions, in the expansion of its missions (1 which becomes 3) and in the total departure of your administration in any case until July 2014. These are the questions that we will have to ask the minister earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u76	Madam Chair, first of all, I want to say that the way Mr.Ducarme attacks a public servant is not very elegant.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u77	Mr. Dallemagne, the grievor is here to be heard. In the report of the Finance Inspectorate, there are still doubts about how... We have the right to ask him questions as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u78	I restate calmly and serenely that the way you address a public servant is not very elegant. The hearing we heard this morning is confusing. It goes far beyond what we knew and the parts that were given to us earlier. We then come to the personality of an official, his sense of communication, etc. I think we have to go back to the facts. The administration admitted that it had made an error and corrected it three days later. The minister never admitted to serious political misconduct. The law of the markets was violated and lies were told in parliament. My question is this, Madam President, and it is also addressed to you. I know what we're talking about is embarrassing, but I think we have to say it again. There was no mandate from the administration. That's very clear. It's unprecedented. I want the minister to come with what she can consider to be a contract, a mission letter, a specification, finally let us know what was asked of Clifford Chance and for what amount and how it can justify that she has paid twice the hourly rate of the contract for a result that is described today by all the actors concerned as a real towel. Madam President, I would like you to ask her to come with these documents this afternoon. I have one last question for Mr. Ledoux. It is very clear that, from the outset, this is not a contract for disputes. Clifford tells us that, as early as 23 October, the first mission he is asked to undertake is the Vliegwet. It is Clifford Chance himself who mentions it in a document that he transmitted to us through the minister's office. I would therefore like to hear Mr Ledoux's reaction to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u79	Mr Ledoux, I have one further question, as fellow Members of this House have abused this round in order to be very firm. Any mistake, by whoever it is made, about the law on public procurement is problematic, needs to be addressed and deserves a follow-up. However, I am struck by the aggressiveness with which a number of Members of the majority approach Mr Ledoux. I would like to invite my fellow Members, in particular Mr Ducarme, to show a little more modesty in this matter. I am actually very curious to see whether the fellow Members of the N-VA, CD&V and Open Vld will be equally assertive in their questions to Minister Galant, who is being confirmed today that she has committed several errors against the law on public procurement. Today, moreover, it appears that Mr Ledoux and his administration have repeatedly asked for months to be informed of the work and the costs. For months, Mr Ducarme, Mr Ledoux, who you have just tackled and who you have been aggressively speaking to, asked your Minister what the situation was and if he could get the information. So the problem of communication lies with your minister, with the majority, with the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u80	Now for your question, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u81	That's the problem. Face it. Madam President, you have just had Mr Ducarme do his thing in detail. I'll be much shorter. In principle, it was not even the intention of my comment, but the selectivity and aggressiveness of the majority's speeches make me sad, and that in a dossier that ultimately hurts us all, the whole politics and the mobility policy of our country. (Protests from Mr Ducarme)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u82	Mr Ducarme, you do not have the floor. Mr Calvo, do you have a question for Mr Ledoux?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u83	Mr Ledoux, you have correctly outlined that something fundamental has changed throughout the entire journey, in particular the mission, which has been greatly expanded. Was the estimate of the cost, which you received at the end of September, after you had requested them for months, for you the first signal that the mission was extended or did you receive any signals about it in the meantime? Were you aware that the mission had changed? After all, it is clear that you have asked several times about the costs, but were you aware of the extension of the mission or was the increased cost the first indication that, besides you, all kinds of other things have been asked of the law firm in question? That question has not yet been answered quite clearly, which is why I am taking it back.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u84	Madam President, it is Mr Ducarme's intervention that makes me react. He states that there is a communication problem between the firm and the administration. Yes, thank you, we found out. But by pretending that it is the fault and responsibility of the head of the administration, you are bringing a case that is completely inappropriate. In my question – to which an answer was given – I indicated that Mr. Ledoux had asked the cabinet and Minister Marghem...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u85	Galant.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u86	It's an obsession!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u87	On February 6, Mr.Ledoux asked Minister Galant's office about the status of the invoices... Mr.Ducarme is on the phone. I wouldn't want to disturb him. Obviously, there is a communication problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u88	This is not a debate between you. Mr. Ledoux is still here. If you still have a question, you can ask her.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u89	On February 6, the administration asked the firm about the invoices. On May 22, it rested the question. On the 3rd of July, she did the same. At no time does the firm respond to him unless Mr. Ledoux tells us something else earlier. And the chief administrative officer would be responsible for the communication problem? Come on, Mr. Ducrame! Then there was no contract. In addition, the object has changed. As far as evaluation is concerned, I would like to bring a room to the committee. What Mr Ducarme pointed out about the Finance Inspectorate's report is not new. Indeed, the problem had already been reported in 2014. I asked Minister Galant on January 26 about the evaluation of the Finance Inspectorate's exhibits. Mr Ducrame, I will read to you Minister Galant's reply: "At the end of his examination, the Finance Inspectorate left me to assess the irregularities and, therefore, to decide on any action to be taken. I have therefore relied on the following observation to make my decision. The President has not committed any malice, malice or favouritism. Moreover, the State has not been harmed in any way. On the basis of the report of the Finance Inspectorate and the above considerations, it appeared to me that there was not sufficient evidence and I decided to maintain my confidence in the President." This is the answer to the points raised by the Finance Inspectorate at the time. President Nollet, your time has ended.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u90	The question is: Mr Ledoux, have there been any new elements that have emerged since then or has this been and remained valid?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u91	Mr Ducrame, if as I hear you, Mr Ledoux must not be at ease today, then what about Mrs Galant? I don't know if you realize, but if you don't want to, you're still pushing your minister. I summarize the findings of what we are learning today, as things are becoming clearer. One, Galant chooses the firm Clifford without a pattern displayed. Two, the rules were clear. Three, the Galant firm did not respect them. Four, there's no contract with this law firm or he's hidden. Five, the task of the law firm has been extended to air law in secret, knowing that this is not a matter of litigation but a legal opinion. Six, the Galant firm kept a radio silence for eight months. Seven, the cost of fees and invoices were also hidden for months without warrant.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u92	What's your question?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u93	I'll finish. Eight, the consequences of this non-compliance with the bidding rules, the rules to be respected, is that Clifford is the most expensive and the most void and the air law has to be rewritten from zero. There you go. I don't have a question. I have these eight observations. Things are clearer today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u94	I shall now give the floor to Mr Raskin and Mrs Matz. Then I'll close this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u95	I would like to turn to Mr Ledoux, whom I would like to thank for his detailed explanation. I hear you're critical of the cabinet and the minister. I can live with that on my own. You ask for respect for civil service, transparency in decisions, responsibilities that are not postponed. You're also asking for the opportunity and space to carry out your mission. I can follow you there for a while. Apparently, you don't have access to all the data you want to have access to today. I do wonder whether the signals transmitted in the last few days are not such that they hinder confidence. Couldn't one be the result of the other? Advice, litigants, invitations to tender, public, with or without publicity... The legal side of the matter remains a delicate issue. There is still some room for interpretation, there is still discussion. If it were all so clear, we would not have to debate this for so long today. From this ambiguity and the different interpretations, I referred to the document of the Treasury Inspectorate, not to make a statement that everything must always remain as it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u96	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u97	Mr Calvo, you have not heard, but Mr Raskin has already asked a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u98	I am not saying that everything should remain the same, but perhaps we should seize the opportunity to clarify once and for all and remove the ambiguity. If that is a change that we can all achieve, I am absolutely a candidate. Finally, I cannot get rid of the impression that the game being played today by the opposition parties is primarily used to undermine legislative work on aviation legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u99	I call Mrs Matz.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u100	Madam President, it is unfortunate to call "the game" the parliamentary control that we have been exercising today and for days on illegal, opacity-based acts. I am very surprised to hear the N-VA call it a "game", they who are the singers of good governance. I would like to reiterate our request. All the pieces are not in the file. Indeed, yesterday, not all the exhibits were transmitted. My colleague asked for the contract and we ask that all the pieces be available this afternoon in order to avoid another small game. We demand all the documents in this file. It's a minimum. That is the transparency we have wanted!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u101	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u102	Mrs Matz, the question must be put to the Speaker of the House and not to me! That's the procedure! Mr Ledoux, you have the floor to answer the specific questions that have been raised. After your intervention, I will close this meeting. The next committee meeting will begin at 2:15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take a moment of silence and to draw your attention to the last of Mr Ledoux's answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u103	Madam President, first I come to Mr Geerts' questions concerning Belgocontrol. Indeed, we are not only asking for transparency in the financial field. I think we can do better, but that's not the essence. What is essential is the dates that we need to receive in order to verify that flights are operating effectively, according to the AIPs and so on. We do not have access to this. For more than a year we have been explicitly asking Belgocontrol these questions, but so far we have not received a satisfactory answer or a satisfactory answer. I certainly wouldn't say the cabinet is obstructing it. Let us say that it has not helped so far; that is something else. We are effectively asking that we be able to carry out our legal tasks and, of course, we need more information to do so. It is not just about the information Belgocontrol is willing to give to us, but about all the information. That seems to me to be only normal, especially given the sensitivity of that dossier. For Mr. Ducarme. I probably have some lessons to learn from you in terms of communication. I therefore do not allow myself to appear as a donor of lessons from this point of view. As far as the FI is concerned, let's be clear. Am I proud of this report? Certainly not. I said it. That is why we are taking action. The Finance Inspectorate is indeed pointing to shortcomings and is telling us clearly that we have applied the old legislation instead of the current legislation. That's clear. I'm not hiding behind this. Whose fault is it? From that point of view, I'm just one with my 1,100 agents. We are at the service of government and the general interest, which does not prevent us from making misinterpretations. It is not useful to look for culprits. They're all in front of you. I'm the boss, I'm the boss.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u104	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u105	Are we going to stay that way? Certainly not. I told you in my presentation. With my services, we will draw all the necessary lessons from this report and we will take action as I mentioned in my presentation. Mrs. Lijnen, I thought I had been clear about Stibbe, but apparently I haven't. We appreciate the services of Stibbe. Nevertheless, as of course written in the e-mail, we had no more doubts about specific points, namely for a specific dossier, about what Stibbe wanted to do. I hope that answers your question. We can investigate the leaks, but how can we, frankly, check them? Especially in my own services, I do not have the means to conduct a specific investigation. Maybe we should think about that, but I do not know which way we should work. However, I do not think this is essential. When there are such leaks, it's because people internally think things are going wrong. Mr Hellings, according to the firm Clifford Chance, already in an email on October 23, it would be reported that the latter is working on the Vliegwet. I honestly admit that we didn't know about it. We had no knowledge of this fact. We had no idea what Clifford Chance was working on throughout 2015. We could have suppositions, but we had no evidence to make sure that was the case. That is why we have asked the cabinet several times. Mr Dallemagne, I do not remember precisely the subject of your question concerning the Vliegwet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u106	Clifford's e-mail referred to the issue of the overflight and the Wathelet plan. As early as October 23, Clifford was mandated. This was the first mission entrusted to him. In other words, there is no question of extending a dispute market to an advisory market. Actually, it's the other way around. From the start, advice is sought from Clifford.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u107	I cannot comment on this because I do not have any information on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u108	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u109	Mr Miller, Mr Ledoux has been given the floor and I asked at the beginning of this meeting to ensure that the proceedings are conducted with respect for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u110	On October 23, the conversation I had with Mr. Remy lasted only 3 minutes 16 seconds. Indeed, it was only about making an appointment. Frankly, I'm not aware of what you just mentioned, Mr. Dallemagne. In our view, this concerned the aid to be provided to airlines and, as you mentioned, the overflight of Brussels, but simply with a view to their possible assistance in disputes. That is what is evident from the e-mails, from the written evidence that we have at our disposal. That's all I can say at this point. I come to the question of Mr Calvo. Did we have any suspicions about enlargement? We had questions, but we did not know whether there would be an enlargement or how big it would be. Nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u111	(...) the first formal indication that the extension of the mission took place?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u112	Yeah, absolutely. Mr Nollet referred to the fact that we had not received an answer. Indeed, I can only say again, we have not received a response to all of our requests.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u113	Mr Nollet, it's the same for everyone! Mr. Ledoux has the floor. I am trying to be impartial, and that is why I have resumed this presidency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u114	In the report I submitted, there are e-mails that refer to the internal questioning of the FPS. There are e-mails on July 13 that raise internal questions between the budget officer, the legal officer and I about the fact that we still don't know what's going on. Were there any verbal contacts with some members of the administration? I can't overturn it or confirm it. I don't have any information. Mr Raskin, on confidence, I think we can always work together if there is transparency. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic263x.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can close this session here. I thank all of you, Mr Ledoux, President of the Mobility FPS, for its transparency, for the fact that he gave a well-documented presentation and for the fact that, despite some disrespect, he did not raise the tone. I thank him again for coming. Mr Ledoux, I would also ask you to give us the order that you mentioned in relation to the problem of contract and contract signature. This is fundamental to our work. Colleagues, we meet again at 2:15 p.m. with Minister Galant.
