ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u1	Colleagues, you will have seen that we have more than 80 questions on the agenda. As I did during the first question and answer session, I would ask you to abide by the Rules and I intend to enforce them. You know the exchange has to take five minutes, no more. It worked very well that way last time. For everyone to ask their questions, they must respect each other. I therefore propose that you try to go to the essentials in the formulation of your questions and your replies. The same applies, of course, to the minister's answer. Mrs Vanheste requested the postponement of her question No 457 at a later meeting. Question No 496 by Mr Geerts was withdrawn. Mr. Yüksel and Ms. Lahaye-Battheu requested the postponement of their joint questions Nos. 581 and 660.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u2	Madam President, Minister, for the past six years, work has been under way to modernize the SNCB 161-162 line. The strategic role of this line is beyond anyone's control, given its status as a link between the three main capitals of Europe (Brussels, Luxembourg and Strasbourg). A project had been launched to link Strasbourg or Switzerland directly from Brussels via Namur. However, this project is likely to flow: if things do not change, travellers who wish to join Strasbourg or Basel from Namur will have to get off the train in Luxembourg and embark on another convoy. In fact, it has come back to me that SNCF, wishing to amortise the Brussels-Paris TGV lines and the new East TGV line, proposes the launch, in 2016, of two TGV links to Strasbourg from Brussels via Lille. It also proposes to operate TGV trains between Strasbourg and Luxembourg with the possible extension to the south of France. At the same time, SNCF proposes to abolish the 90 series trains currently used on the French part on the Brussels-Bâle route, as soon as the new TGV service is in place. As a result, the international connection of the European capitals Brussels, Luxembourg and Strasbourg, as well as the service to Namur, could no longer be provided by trains without breaking the load at the Luxembourg railway station. However, the Brussels-Luxembourg line was placed as the third priority of trans-European lines in the Council of the European Union more than 30 years ago!- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Minister, what about this project? Can you make every effort to ensure the international character of the Brussels-Luxembourg line to Strasbourg? Can you also tell me what progress has been made in modernizing and renovating the 161-162 lines?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Brussels-Luxembourg-Strasbourg-Switzerland route is now served by two Eurocity (EC) trains and offers travel times from 2:55 a.m. to 3:03 a.m. to Luxembourg and from 5:05 a.m. to 5:29 a.m. to Strasbourg and from 6:33 a.m. to Basel. For the Brussels-Luxembourg relationship, 17 IC J and 3 IC+ daily supplement this offer. Unfortunately, I can only note the deterioration, from year to year, of this relationship in terms of quality, comfort and regularity. In addition, the implementation of the new transport plan as of 14 December 2014, as well as the work to improve the infrastructure on our network, on the CFL network and in France, will extend the current journey times: + 8 minutes for ICs, + 10 minutes for ICs J and + 36 minutes for ECs. On the other hand, infrastructure improvements in adjacent networks are already reducing or will reduce travel times on competing routes in the short to medium term. In addition, the supply improvement project with pendulum equipment in partnership with CFLs, SNCF and SBB did not succeed following their withdrawal from the project. If one adds to this the fact that the Swiss equipment usually used, of good quality, had to be replaced by SNCB cars dating from before 1980 and no longer meeting the current comfort criteria for long journeys, the commercial future of these international connections could not be guaranteed unless a complete overhaul of the project was envisaged. In order to prevent inter-capital traffic from yielding even more shares to the car and that longer-distance relations are gradually deserted by travellers and its partners in favour of alternative solutions via Paris, Lille, Cologne or Frankfurt, SNCB must develop a rapid relationship in correspondence with the future Luxembourg-Strasbourg TGV relationship with an integrated tariff offer and a first-class business service in line with current requirements. SNCB turned to the CFLs to discuss together the concrete solutions to be implemented. It was agreed to collect and study existing data on the use of this line and to supplement them, if necessary, with a market study in order to identify current and future demand. However, this new service could not be proposed before the new transportation plan of December 2017. International passenger transport, which opened up to free competition on 1 January 2010, must be profitable on its own funds. The lack of interest on the part of the neighbouring rail partners is therefore a major obstacle to the continuation of the direct Brussels-Strasbourg and beyond relationship for SNCB. On the basis of the analyses to be carried out, it will be determined whether the future Brussels-Luxembourg relationship still needs to be carried out on Belgian territory under public service contract with numerous intermediate stops which will deteriorate the attractiveness of the route for international customers or whether these routes should become purely commercial, in which case the level of the tariffs should allow for a reasonable commercial margin. From the point of view of the modernization and renovation of the 161 and 162 lines, Infrabel plans to set up a four-lane line 161 between Schuman and Etterbeek in December 2015, and between Etterbeek and the Louvain-la-Neuve bifurcation in December 2025. The speed on the latter section is increased from 130 to 160 kilometres per hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u4	Minister, you confirm the fears and we don't have many prospects until 2019. I must admit that it is with a bit of pessimism that I envisage the future of this case. So I am counting on you to try as best as possible to prevent these lines from disappearing altogether.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u5	Madam President, I've contacted Mrs. Temmerman. We have agreed to convert our combined questions Nos 657 and 826 into written questions if we can now get the answer. Maybe it'll go faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u6	That's good.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u7	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u8	Madam Minister, on November 12, in this same commission, you answered one of my questions about the installation by Infrabel of warning bells at crossings. You told me that the operation had started earlier this year and that it would end by the end of 2015. On that occasion, you had sent me a list of the crossings that, as of November 12, 2014, were already equipped with this new warning bell. I have read this document very carefully, minister, and the analysis of this list has asked me. On the site lesonquisauve.be, which you had advised me to visit, Infrabel mentions 1,549 level crossings in our territory, which are distributed more or less like this: nearly 1,100 in Flanders, about 440 in Wallonia and 13 in Brussels. As of November 12, 185 crossings were already equipped with this new warning bell. We can only congratulate ourselves on that. On the other hand, 162 of the 185 equipped level crossings are located in Flanders, while Wallonia has seen only 10 of its existing level crossings equipped with this new safety system. In other words, this means that almost 15% of the level crossings in Flanders are already equipped, while Wallonia is lagging behind with only 2.3% of its level crossings equipped. Today, therefore, I note a flagrant imbalance in the priorities for the installation of this safety system chosen by the railway system operator. Minister, could you give me a more specific agenda for the installation of this security system, for example in terms of the territorial coverage of each region and province. Could you also tell me the amounts invested? In advance, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u9	Colleagues, the installation of new ringtones at level crossings is undeniably a project that generates real added value in terms of safety for the rail network and road users. As part of the process of setting up this new ring at all level crossings in the country, however, it is impossible to maintain a permanent balance between Flanders and Wallonia. It is indeed more efficient and therefore also more economical to equip following the level crossings located close to each other. However, this balance between railway districts and between regions will again be respected in the very near future, as the schedule provides that all crossings across the country will be equipped with the new ringtone before the end of the year. The site lesonquisauve.be, which you have consulted very usefully, continues to be updated very regularly with the latest information in this field. The overall budget for the project is €2.5 million. Finally, the secretariat of the commission received by e-mail the equipment planning per borough for 2014 and the complete theoretical planning of the equipment of all level crossings.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u10	I will immediately request this document from the secretariat, in order to transmit it to the members.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u11	I thank the Minister for her response. I'll be very careful about it. I would like the secretary of the commission to be able to confirm what the minister said, so that we can then have this document.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u12	Madam President, Madam Minister, SNCB has just entrusted Alstom Belgium, a subsidiary of the French group Alstom, with the task of equipping 449 of its trains with the European Rail Traffic Management System (ERTMS). This is an investment of EUR 70 million for the railway group. Minister, can you provide us with the specific equipment plan for these 449 trains in the ERTMS system? When do you expect that all of the 449 trains selected will be equipped with this safety system? Do the 449 trains selected represent the totality of the trains running on our rail network? If not, what was the method used to select the trains that will be secured as a priority? In addition, is there a project to secure other trains? Can you tell us about the other projects already identified by SNCB that will be launched in the coming legislature to improve the safety of trains, traffic and thus de facto passengers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, safety is a priority of my policy brief and of my policy brief. According to the equipment plan of the ERTMS system, the 449 trains will be equipped for 2023. For further details, reference should be made to the table, which I shall submit immediately to the secretariat of the committee, indicating the number of units that will be equipped each year until that date. The 449 trains selected do not represent the entire fleet of SNCB. At the time of writing the Masterplan, it was divided into three parts: the new equipment which must contractually be equipped with the ETCS system, the old equipment on which it is possible to install the ETCS system, namely the 449 equipment in question, the old equipment on which it is not possible to install this system. These devices must be replaced to ensure capacity. The planning of the facility has adopted several criteria, including the maintenance of capacity, the capacity of suppliers, and the certification capabilities in Belgium and abroad. The Masterplan has identified all the projects to be implemented so that the entire SNCB fleet is equipped with ETCS at the end of 2023. To date, the installation on the 449 old vehicles has been launched. Migration on M6Bx pilot cars will be carried out in 2015. Migration on Type 13 locomotives and I11 pilot cars is under negotiation with suppliers. Desiro type motors are provided with the operational ETCS. Activation on Type 18 and Type 19 locomotives is scheduled for 2015. The replacement of equipment that cannot be equipped with ETCS with M7-type equipment is under negotiation with the supplier and is dependent on ongoing budgetary discussions. At the same time, monitoring of the evolution of the technical specifications issued by the European Railway Agency (ERA) and the requirements of Belgian and foreign infrastructures, following the installation of the ETCS, will ensure the migration of version 2.3.0.d to the Baseline 3 version of the ETCS. In addition, action plans developed, such as measures to reduce the number of signal exceedances, will be continued in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u14	Madam Chair, I thank the Minister for her response.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u15	A table on the evolution of car equipment has been given to us and will be distributed to the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u16	Madam Minister, ticket machines in train stations do not always appear to be accessible to people with visual, auditory, intellectual, motor or other disabilities. There is a plan to place more ticket machines and reduce the number of staff. This creates a problem for the above mentioned people. Apparently this has already been detected by the VFG and the National High Council for Persons with Disability. SNCB argued that there are sufficient alternatives to buy tickets. However, this was contradicted by the NHRPH, which gave a number of practical examples to show that SNCB was wrong about this. Madam Minister, has SNCB in the meantime developed a new policy to help the people with one of the above-mentioned handicaps, not to fine them? In my view, it is unacceptable that these people should have to pay a fine of EUR 7 on top of their ticket because of their disability.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u17	Mr Geerts, SNCB met on 4 December with the National High Council for Persons with Disability. Access to ticket machines in train stations has also been addressed. SNCB informs me that it is prepared to consider, in consultation with the FPS Mobility, the granting of an exception to the application of the on-board fare for anyone who has a specific card issued for this purpose by the FPS Social Security Office. The NHRPH was pleased that SNCB was opening up to allow an exemption from the on-board tariff in the future on the basis of that card. The NHRPH has said that it will explore how best to develop such a card, in collaboration with the FPS Mobility and/or the FPS Social Security Office. So far, however, SNCB has kept to the current possibilities of its management contract. The blind card and the card for a free companion are currently the only reduction cards included.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u18	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you and the SNCB for the opening of the debate. However, it is not so much about the reduction of tariffs as about the fine. The debate is now on whether or not an additional card should be made. It could be examined whether the existing maps could not be accepted, but this is a point for the different organisations and the NHRPH.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u19	Madam President, Minister, according to the figures from the December 2, 2014, edition of La Meuse, accidents involving cyclists are on the rise. In the first half of 2014, approximately 6,000 infringements were reported and 27 accidents involving one two-wheeler per day were reported. If these figures prove to be correct, this is quite worrying and requires some action. Minister, are you aware of this study? Do you confirm the words of La Meuse's article? Is there not an opportunity to strengthen controls?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u20	Madam President, dear colleague, the number of physical accidents involving cyclists did indeed increase significantly (24%) in the first half of 2014. With regard to offences, the figures sent to me by the police show that there were 5,996 offences against cyclists in the first half of 2014. While strengthening controls is a tool to increase the safety and accountability of cyclists, I believe it is essential to continue existing awareness-raising, education and prevention activities and to encourage cyclists to use safety equipment such as helmets or reflective jackets.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u21	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Stockem workshop currently maintains 54 Desiro motors. It comes to my mind that 20 of them could be transferred to Brussels and Flanders in order to serve the ER. There would then be only 34 automotors left to provide service on all lines and only two would act as reserve. This is a question when it is known that the maintenance of an automotor returns to its immobilization for an entire day. In addition, reducing the number of car drivers in Stockem raises concerns about the future of the workshop and the staff employed there every day. Do you confirm the transfer of 20 cars from Stockem to Brussels and Flanders? If so, why remove so many machines? Could this figure not be revised downwards and removed less? What would be the impact at the staff level in the Stockem workshop? Are jobs directly threatened? Can you inform me of the specific intentions of SNCB regarding the Stockem workshop?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u22	As of 14 December 2014, the Stockem workshop will maintain 35 Desiro and 24 Type 96 motor vehicles, representing a reduction of 10 Desiro motors compared to the current situation. The current workforce of the Stockem workshop is 142 full-time equivalents and will evolve to 123 full-time equivalents by the end of 2015 based on natural departures. According to SNCB, the sustainability of the Stockem workshop is guaranteed by the construction of a new workshop near the Arlon station, which was launched a few months ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u23	Minister, track 3 at Florenville station is currently used as a siding. It is my responsibility that it would be in SNCB's plans to delete it. The removal of this track would cause many difficulties in the event of problems with other trains within this station. Can you inform me of the actual intentions of SNCB in this regard? Is it a question, yes or no, of deleting this path 3?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u24	The track 3 of the Florenville station will be dismantled in the first half of 2016 on the occasion of the complete redevelopment of the station. There will be no loss of capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u25	I thank the Minister for her response.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u26	Madam Minister, the mobility budget is included in both the Flemish and the federal government agreements. This will enable the à la carte worker to assemble his or her mobility, which could make it a full alternative to the company car, without questioning the company car itself. The necessary condition for making the mobility budget a success is fiscal simplification. Regulations by mode of transport and the way in which they are used in the field of taxation, social and labour law need to be harmonised in order to achieve a more uniform, equitable and greener system. Of course, we welcome the government's intention to do this. You yourself announced this in your policy paper. We have already put forward a legislative proposal on it. Madam Secretary, I would have liked an answer to the following questions. Have you already consulted with your colleagues concerned about the development of the mobility budget? If so, what has already been discussed? By what time do you expect the mobility budget to be introduced? What obstacles are currently hindering the introduction of the mobility budget? What needs to be done to remove these obstacles?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have not yet had contact with my fellow Members on the mobility budget, but contacts have already taken place at administrative level. It is my wish to set up a working group composed of members of the various administrations concerned. It will cover both the mobility budget and the harmonisation of tax and social rules on mobility. No deadline was set. As stipulated in the government agreement, the government will create a legal framework for the mobility budget in the course of this legislature. It belongs to the working group I wish to set up to study the obstacles that hinder the introduction of the mobility budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u28	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I am also pleased that the first steps are being taken to make it work effectively. Madam Minister, as the Minister responsible for Mobility, I would like to ask you to pull that cart. The danger with powers held by different ministers is that one looks at the other. I therefore hope that you will really pull the trigger for this and encourage the working group to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u29	As a reminder, on February 4, we will have a great debate with the two administrators on the new transportation plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u30	Madam President, I will not intervene at these hearings. My question is indeed more focused. I allow myself to put it down anyway. Minister, since December 15, SNCB has adapted its train offer. The timetables for some trains are changed while others are removed. In the South Vietnamese region, these changes are inappropriate, whether for commuters travelling to work or for students attending nearby schools. I have been questioned by many commuters about the scheduled schedule changes on the line connecting Dinant-Beaurating-Bertrix, as well as by fifteen mayors from this area. For students, it has become almost impossible to visit their institution before the opening time – unless they leave their homes at six o'clock in the morning. So they're in a dead end. The same applies to workers who have to travel to Virton or Bertrix. I could give you several other examples, but it would be too long. Asked about the apparent abandonment of our rural area, the SNCB justifies these changes by invoking "a desire to adapt the supply of trains to the demand of the largest number of passengers". It is obvious that fewer people live in rural areas. Nevertheless, these changes are problematic. Minister, are these amendments permanently fixed or are they revisitable after assessment? More generally, can you commit yourself not to penalising rural areas, as is currently expected? What will students do if they arrive too soon or too late at their school? Will contacts be made with the directorates in order to arrange a reception for these students who sometimes have to wait an hour and a half? On the other hand, the railways in the south of our country, mainly those linking Namur to Arlon, have experienced many delays, if not the greatest number of delays, in October. Are the management, organizational and failure problems that have led to all these delays resolved? I thank you in advance for the answers you will not fail to give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u31	Madam President, Minister, a date for a hearing was indeed set, but my question had already been put before we knew it. I'll ask them anyway. The new transport plan entered into force on 14 December. The previous one was dated in 1998 and therefore a new plan was urgently needed. The aim was to improve punctuality and adapt it to the new number of passengers. I have the following questions. How was the start of the new timetable? What are the initial findings of SNCB and Infrabel with regard to the new service provision? When will the first evaluation of the new transport plan follow? Was the transport plan carried out loyally or was there any opposition when it entered into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u32	Minister, I think I understand that hearings are planned. As we know, we have discussed this on several occasions. It was obviously a plan that was expected, which was necessary and indeed, when I tabled this question on 17 December last, it was precisely two days after the introduction of this new transport schedule. We can see that the changes are not perfect overnight, but on 16 December and the following days there were many delays, including, as my colleague Mr Clarinval said, in rural areas and also in rural connections to the capital. I would have liked to know what steps were envisaged to put all this back into music so that the delays experienced could be dealt with as widely as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u33	Madam President, Madam Minister, as some Members have already said, there is a time for evaluation. It will also be on February 4th. In my opinion, the transport plan is good for larger cities, but it shows some shortcomings for rural communities. Meanwhile, I have asked written questions about Haacht, Heist-op-den-Berg, Melsele and other municipalities. How does SNCB itself evaluate the entry into force of the new transport plan? What complaints has SNCB registered? Can they be communicated to the committee? Do you have a visual on any adjustments?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u34	Madam President, Madam Minister, I would like to endorse the questions put by my fellow Members. It is too early to make an overall assessment. Even the hearing might come too soon. A new transport plan needs time to set up. However, over the last few weeks we have been constantly talking about the new transport plan and all sorts of complaints. At the ombudsdienst there were about one hundred and thirty complaints a day. That's not nothing. Are any complaints coming in to SNCB? Is the number of the same order? One of the main objectives of the new transport plan is a more robust timetable and therefore more punctuality. Can this punctuality be evaluated since its introduction? Are delays related to the transport plan itself or to incidents relating to the infrastructure and/or rolling stock or caused by third parties? It would be good if we had an idea of the distinction in that area. A further element concerns capacity. That's a new phenomenon. In the past, there were complaints about too small trains or trains in too small a composition. The purpose of the new transport plan was to use the equipment in the right places with the right capacity. There's gonna be a lot of complaints about overcrowded trains. Why is that? What can we do about it? A better amplitude and a better distribution of trains between two points was a third objective of the new timetable. On a number of connections this has certainly been significantly improved. I am thinking of Ghent-Brussels and Antwerp-Brussels. In other places, the opposite seems to be true, in the sense that there are two trains per hour just after each other. Is there an evaluation going on at this point? Are there any changes coming? When would any adjustments be introduced? What is the envisaged period for an in-depth evaluation and for adjustments?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u35	Madam President, my colleague, the evaluation with the CEOs of the new transport plan is scheduled for 4 February. I would like to point out that the last plan dated from 1998 and that, with the exception of some one-off irregularities, on Sunday, 14 December, the first day of the implementation of the new transport plan, is considered by SNCB as a successful launch day. SNCB is also pleased with the morning of 16 December, the first day of the week when the new transport plan could be implemented after the strike of 15 December. Few significant incidents are to be counted and punctuality figures can be considered normal. However, a number of overoccupations have been observed, which are closely monitored by all the services concerned. In some cases, these overoccupations are due to non-compliance with the requested composition. In other cases, as with any novelty of such magnitude, travellers still have to find their marks. Some overoccupations will therefore gradually disappear on their own as a result of a better distribution of passengers on trains. In recent days, the network has also been confronted with a number of incidents affecting the punctuality of the trains, but which were not caused by the new transport plans. In implementing the new transport plan, SNCB and Infrabel organised a joint follow-up committee on a daily basis, where all identified problems were discussed and responsibilities identified in order to resolve them. The new transport plan is therefore constantly being evaluated. No structural problems were identified during the first days. SNCB has registered 1 135 complaints, of which 7 were complaints about L69 Poperinge. Most complaints relate to the time schedule and especially to the frequency and cadence of the trains. There are also quite a lot of complaints about the duration of the journey and the hour of the first and last departure of the train. The Minister of Mobility asked SNCB to carry out an overall assessment of the transportation plan as soon as possible and to consider corrective measures that can be taken in the short and medium term. This applies to services in rural areas and those in the Gantoese region. In order to limit the influence of the yards on the start of the new transport plan, Infrabel carried out all maintenance work between 15 December and 15 January. I would like to reassure my colleagues who also come from a rural area. I have often repeated this: I will be very attentive to the fate of rural areas. I also go there with a SNCB official when the agents ask, to explain to them the novelties of the transport plan. I would also like to make it clear – but all the explanations will be given to you at the hearing on 4 February – that the delays are not solely due to the transport plan. Many infrastructure works cause delays. I will give you an example that I know well: following the work of the Mons station, we go from 7 lanes to 4. This obviously leads to delays. And since our network is a star, when an incident occurs in Antwerp, it also has repercussions in the south of the country and vice versa. I really think the hearings on February 4th will be very interesting. You will be able to ask all your questions and, I hope, have your appeasement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u36	Madam Chair, I thank the Minister for her response. I am pleased that the overall implementation of the plan has gone well. This will allow SNCB to focus on the few minor concerns that remain. Undeniably, rural areas are part of it. I am pleased that the minister is very sensitive to rural areas. I think it will not only be necessary to evaluate, but also to change certain things. Indeed, it is not necessary to make an evaluation to realize that there is a problem when students arrive either an hour and a half before the course starts or half an hour after the course starts. I hope that you will be able to go to the south of the country to see that there is a concern that needs to be resolved, as well as to the east of the province of Luxembourg. I hope that we can quickly find a solution to these ad hoc problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u37	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I am also pleased that the entry into force of the new transport plan has been fairly smooth, that it has been properly monitored and that there is a daily follow-up committee, which is constantly evaluating. I am a little surprised that there is no mention of capacity in the complaints. We often read in the newspapers or in the social media that there are overcrowded trains or that people are no longer able to access them. We therefore hope that you will also pay attention to this and that this can be resolved as soon as possible. In my view, this does not require any major intervention; it is enough to provide a few extra wagons. We are also looking forward to the hearing on 4 February and we will continue to monitor this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u38	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You say that SNCB is satisfied. That is an appreciation and I understand that SNCB says it is satisfied. You also mentioned the number of complaints, but I did not hear the figure you gave.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u39	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u40	Okay. The appreciation of SNCB will be sure that it has succeeded. However, there were other impressions, including from the passenger association. I think that there are mainly complaints from rural areas, because those passengers often have to change and often I have experienced connections myself, because the new transport plan will still have to prove its robustness. We hope that the problem can be resolved within the shortest possible time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u41	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. It is a positive element, and for that there are no other signs that the timetable seems to work in a structural way, but many other factors that work on the timetable and which are linked to the new timetable do cause problems. We must not deny and ignore these problems. Especially in terms of capacity, it will have to be considered that the right number of trains is provided for where they are needed, because there seems to be still a problem there today. We will certainly follow that up, even at the hearing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u42	Madam President, Minister, this question was tabled some time ago and I should have adapted it a bit, but I will read it as it was drafted. Many passengers still hold their breath when it comes to SNCB's new transport plan. We encourage the ambition to provide a better, more regular timetable with better switching times. That would increase the commuters' comfort, or who can still count on his trusted train line. However, reality shows more misery. What certainly doesn't increase the comfort of travellers is the trend to replace stations with glass booths and window operators by vending machines. Travelers from municipalities have the same right to good support and service as travelers from cities. The systematic removal of points of contact in the stations does not help the customer-friendliness of SNCB. Automates cannot answer questions, create subscriptions or help with the cheapest ticket. This requires well-informed and helpful staff. If the vending machines are placed badly again and the sun at noon makes it impossible to read the screen, or if they are defective, it is no good at all. Anyone who wants to take the train and cannot use a vending machine in a municipality is forced to take the car to a city nearby. In my view, this is not entirely the intention of an institution which provides for public transport. Madam Minister, as far as the points of contact are concerned, SNCB must save 2.1 billion. Will you do that by shutting down other stations, among other things? Can you investigate whether it is possible to man the window at least a few hours a day in the municipalities where the station is or is closed? In this way, SNCB can provide its passengers with correct information, help where necessary and ensure that everyone in their own neighbourhood can take the train comfortably. The vending machines are very often defective. Can you check how often there are technical problems that prevent them from being used? Can you ensure that the machines placed outside are equipped with a sunscreen, so that the screen is clearly legible at any time?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u43	The company is working out pistes for this purpose, but no decisions have yet been taken. It is therefore not correct to speculate whether or not certain measures are correct, since the analysis and the thinking exercise must be completed before a decision is taken. SNCB informs me that it will soon start providing telephone assistance for the use of vending machines. Through a call centre, the number of which will be indicated on the vending machines, the customer will be able to get help to accompany him in purchasing transactions, to inform him about the available products and to advise him, and to help him in the event of technical difficulties. September is the reference month for the sale of tickets. In September 2014, SNCB sold almost 1 million tickets via the vending machines. The average availability of new vending machines since the beginning of that year has been 96%. The average availability is even 98 % if we also consider the number of sites operated with at least one vending machine. The correct functioning of the vending machines is monitored continuously through a monitoring and incident management system. The choice for the placement of the vending machines was made after a systematic study per location. A large number of parameters have been taken into account, such as the visibility of vending machines, the accessibility of vending machines, the safety of customers and the need to avoid obstacles to the passage of passengers. The solution chosen is therefore a compromise between different commercial and operational parameters, such as security. The Sun's Sun's position was also taken into account as far as possible, but given the variable position of the Sun's position, it is impossible to always comply with it. The installation of a sunscreen does not guarantee a permanent optimum readability of the screen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u44	Madam Secretary, I do not think you are answering. I insist that the employees cannot be replaced by machines. It is very unfortunate that the passengers are operated by an automatic. They do not receive information and can only pay with change, not with notes. In case of a malfunction, the vending machines are indeed synchronized in the morning. However, if the defect occurs around ten or eleven o'clock in the morning and customers do not have the possibility to pay via the vending machine, they still have to pay 7 euro extra on the train. I don't think that's very customer-friendly. You're saying no decisions have been made yet. You say that a sunscreen does not help, but what are the solutions? I have not yet received an answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u45	Madam Minister, at the end of 2014, a petition was launched to improve the service provided by SNCB for persons with disabilities. Today's services are inadequate. For example, persons with disabilities are required to submit an application for assistance at least 24 hours in advance and to indicate which trains they wish to take. In addition, SNCB is not flexible enough and does not take into account unforeseen circumstances. Anyone who misses his reserved train and wants to get on another train sometimes has to wait a long time for the necessary assistance. I have the following questions. Firstly, why do people with disabilities have to book in advance for so long? Can't that be shorter? In the Netherlands, for example, they only had to apply three hours in advance. In the meantime, they only have to book one hour in advance in 2015. Secondly, all travellers with disabilities are subject to the same reservation rule, although they do not all need the same assistance. To assist a blind or hearing impaired traveller requires less preparation than to provide assistance to persons in wheelchairs, for which mobile ramps or staircase climbers must be used. Madam Secretary, do you think it is appropriate to make the reservation rule dependent on the type of assistance requested? Thirdly, is SNCB's staff sufficiently trained to assist people with disabilities? What does their training look like? Finally, unforeseen circumstances, such as delays, may cause the passengers concerned to fail to catch their reserved train. How does the follow-up work in such cases? Will they be helped quickly and appropriately?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u46	Madam Minister, Mr Raskin has already outlined the context. The petition reads: "Choose yourself when you take the train." However, for those who have to decide 24 hours in advance, freedom of choice is much more limited. I have just asked a question about the accessibility of vending machines, to which a partial positive response has been given. In your policy paper, you yourself stated at a certain point that the objective of travel without obstacles must become a reality in the medium term. What concrete measures will you develop? What timing will you use to make it possible to travel without obstacles, including in terms of reservation but also, for example, in terms of accessibility? On this point, I would like to remind you of the following. We in Parliament once adopted a resolution proposing that Infrabel should produce an annual report on the accessibility of stations. For 2014 and, I believe, even before 2013, that report has not yet been submitted. Could you ask Infrabel to submit that report to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, all this will be examined in the context of the negotiations on the next management contract. In accordance with the management contract concluded between the Belgian State and SNCB, SNCB shall make every effort to continuously improve the accessibility of trains and stations and to facilitate the movement of persons with reduced mobility. The 24-hour period is set out in Article 44 of the management contract. This 24-hour period makes it possible to assist persons with reduced mobility at the station of departure, the station where they have to change and the station of destination. In addition, if assistance is needed when boarding and exiting the train, this reservation period makes it possible to check whether the equipment and staff are available and whether a wheelchair space is available in the desired train. SNCB wishes to maintain a standardised organisation which does not require it to operate on different schedules, depending on the type of person with reduced mobility, on the journey travelled or at the time of the movement. However, practice shows that passengers with reduced mobility clearly take into account that they may experience difficulties when travelling without a prior reservation. They know the flexibility that SNCB testifies to every day. SNCB shall provide station staff responsible for assisting persons with reduced mobility with specific training in order to learn the right actions to assist persons with reduced mobility. The trainers themselves followed an initiation at the Charleroi-Sud, Antwerp-Central stations, at employees of the Oeuvre Nationale des Aveugles or at Blindenzorg Licht en Love. If a person with reduced mobility does not arrive in time for reasons outside his will to receive the reserved assistance and take the planned train, an alternative will be organised by SNCB in real time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u48	Madam Minister, I understand that you say that SNCB is doing everything possible to serve people with disabilities. Allow me to say that the current context is not satisfactory. Anno 2015 should be more focused on tailor-made services, rather than on a uniform arrangement to which you refer. I am pleased to hear from you that this could be looked at in the context of the management contract. I would also like to refer very briefly to a number of initiatives that have already been taken at Flemish level. That is where we are trying to reduce the obligation to make reservations. De Lijn, for example, will work on a permanently accessible system of priority lines that no longer require a reservation obligation. They also want to introduce a simple system of reservation. Today one can refuse a traveler with a restriction when another traveler is already receiving assistance. We can use new technologies, such as apps, to assist people with disabilities in their use of public transport. As a civilised society, we are obliged to go further down that road. A reservation obligation acts stigmatizingly and inhibits a normal social life. I think that our starting point should be that a transport which is not public is not public transport for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u49	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I think Mr Raskin is certainly right about the criteria for public transport. We must be more ambitious in this and public transport must be accessible to all, especially to those who do not have many mobility alternatives. Yesterday, as a municipal mandator, I had the same debate with representatives of De Lijn regarding the accessibility of the bell bus. Today we are talking about the same thing. Of course, I also know Article 44 and I know that it is not clear to the staff of SNCB to ensure that accessibility. It used to be the case that people were helped by the train when there were staff available. In the meantime, this can no longer be done, because this is what we want to professionalize. I also understand that reservations must be made in advance in order to be able to send a mobile team. In 2015, we have communication technologies that, in my opinion, can reduce the 24-hour reservation requirement. If that is possible in other countries, we need to look at how this is organised, so that we can learn from these best practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u50	Madam Minister, my question was made following the publication of the report of the investigating body on Laws on 3 December. A number of matters fall within the competence of your colleague Borsus. However, some of these questions are also for you. According to the investigating body, there were four causes: firstly, an unadjusted speed; secondly, two successive short turns of switches in a given radius and an S-shaped shape; thirdly, the excessive centre of gravity of the fully loaded wagons, which were, by the way, properly loaded; fourthly, the emergency braking applied. The report also states that the driver was not aware of the works on the line. The driver's attention was probably reduced by monotony, causing fatigue. The driver was an employee of DB Schenker Rail Nederland. The path was at that time assigned to SNCB Logistics. So something may have gone wrong in passing on the information about that line. It is also said that the Memor function is inadequate, but we already knew that. It's already been spotted. Has the aspect of the two turns been discussed in the consultation between the DVIS, Infrabel and the operators? How did the flow of information from SNCB Logistics to Schenker go? What about the liability for the accident?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u51	The rail configuration has not been addressed in the consultation with the DVIS and the railway undertakings. That element was not discussed at any time either, but is included in the investigation report as a factual element that contributed to the course of the accident and not as a cause of the accident. The report issued by the rail regulator in May examined whether or not there was a capacity transfer from SNCB Logistics to DB Schenker Rail Netherlands. On that occasion, the railway regulator wanted to verify who was in control of the operation of the train on the basis of a number of parameters. In his report, the regulator showed that SNCB Logistics exercised effective control over the train during its transit in Belgium and had informed the driver of the details of the line. It can also be emphasized that the driver concerned had been used for 13 years to drive over the Belgian network and had sufficient experience and knowledge of the line concerned. The driver in question knew the speed limit for his type of train, ninety kilometers per hour, and knew that he had to reduce his speed to forty kilometers per hour after passing the signal RXW6. As an infrastructure manager, Infrabel informs railway operators operating on the network of activities and speed limits. Railway operators shall inform their own train drivers and/or railway operators who have sub-contracted trains. In turn, the railway operators involved in subcontracting inform their own train drivers about speed limits. The Safety Investigation Report of the Investigation Body for Accidents and Incidents on the Track reports in connection with the accident that all legal obligations and agreements were respected by the railway operators concerned. As regards liability, it should be recalled that, in accordance with Article 119 of the Spoorcodex, the investigation is conducted independently of investigations and judicial investigations and cannot in any case concern the determination of errors or liability. In order to know which parties may be prosecuted, it is necessary to wait for the public prosecutor to complete his investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u52	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You say that the driver was indeed aware of the works that took place on the line.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u53	Madam Minister, you have already had questions about this, but I have been urged to ask questions about the situation of the Vilvoorde station. Everyone agrees that this is in a very bad state. It was previously said that the renovation of the station would start at the end of 2014. You have now said that this would not be the case. They will therefore have to wait. You also do not know when a renovation is possible. The platforms and stairs are poorly maintained. Accessibility for people with disabilities is also problematic. The mayor of Vilvoorde said he'd shut down the station if it got too dangerous. That would be a great pity for the five thousand travellers who pass there every day. It has been waiting a long time for the second phase of the renovation works. The postponement of work is therefore regrettable. Madam Minister, is it not desirable and/or possible to take a number of measures to address the greatest needs and prevent accidents? I am thinking, for example, of accessibility for disabled people, which is now a serious problem. We heard from the press that the mayor is threatening to shut down the station for security reasons. What will happen then? Do you foresee something like this or is this not at all at issue? Or are you saying he can't do that? At the end of last year, Uplace's CEO stated in the press that a building permit will soon be issued for the new train station in Machelen, 150 metres from Uplace, which will resolve mobility problems quickly, while you did not really say so in your reply to the question from the Mayor of Vilvoorde. You said at that time that there is no immediate perspective for Machelen. However, this was an important element in the Uplace organisation and building permit. That is why I am asking what the prospects are there?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u54	SNCB informs me that the mayor's orders do not yet exist. This is a tough decision that needs to be thoroughly reasoned. The potential impact on rail traffic should also be taken into account. In any event, SNCB's security services and legal service shall examine the situation of a possible closure of the station. SNCB and Infrabel will make every effort to prevent the situation and will take all the temporary measures necessary to ensure safety and avoid closure. I'm following this file closely. That's why I'm going to visit on Wednesday 25 February 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u55	I hear you saying you're investigating the scenario of closure. You also say that you already want to take temporary measures. Do you have a concrete idea about that? You didn't say anything about Machelen. May I assume that nothing will change there? Uplace said it would be all right soon. Well, that's not gonna be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u56	Madam President, Madam Minister, this question concerns the subsidiaries of SNCB and Infrabel. I know that specific questions have been asked about other subsidiaries, but this is a more general question. You say that you intend to reduce the number of subsidiaries of SNCB and Infrabel. As a boltade, you spoke of a wood processing plant and a business restaurant. I have been informed and the wood processing plant used to be necessary for the trains, so it has historical reasons. I believe that these statements were in stark contrast to the statement made by your colleague De Croo, who says that he is not going to interfere with the day-to-day management of a company, when you say which companies should leave. I have no objection in principle to reducing the number of subsidiaries. I have said this in the past. Those subsidiaries do have to operate in full transparency in the account numbers, they can be flexible and sometimes have advantages for the consolidated whole. In some cases, there is a legal obligation to set up new subsidiaries to carry out projects in cooperation with other partners. Madam Minister, which companies do you specifically mean by your example of the farm restaurant and the wood processing plant? What were these subsidiaries set up for? What's their balance? Which other subsidiaries do you consider unnecessary, which do you say you want to delete?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u57	Madam President, the wood processing plant refers to the WoodProtect SA, a subsidiary of Infrabel with an indirect holding of 51%. WoodProtect specializes in the creation of new wooden sleepers and the hacking and destruction of old used sleepers. Where the first activity is reduced by switching to concrete sleepers, the processing of out-of-service wooden sleepers appears to be a necessary activity, requiring specialization. WoodProtect was founded in December 1990 and had a balance sheet total of EUR 2 831 288 on 31 December 2013. I would refer you to the answer given to Question No 1, by Mr Seligman, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats As part of the general reflection on the modernisation of SNCB, the subsidiaries will be examined in depth.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u58	Madam Minister, I have no problem with the reduction of the number of subsidiaries and the need for added value. With my question, I would just like to point out that I believe that a number of subsidiaries also add value. I therefore hope that the abolition of subsidiaries will not become a new fetish, because then the child will be thrown away with the bath water.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u59	A new compensation scheme was developed to transpose the European Directive. However, this system does not appear to be more user-friendly for many travellers. Keeping a form to record the impact of delays is a brake for many travellers. The fact that the Ombudsman is no longer competent to act and to mediate also appears to be an additional barrier. Madam Secretary, I come to my questions. How do you evaluate this compensation system? What figures are available on the number of train tickets distributed for compensation? Can the Ombudsman be more closely involved in this task in order to improve the provision of services? Does SNCB intend to adjust the current compensation procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u60	Madam Secretary, my question is similar. Train passengers are entitled to compensation if their train is repeatedly delayed or cancelled. However, in order to claim compensation for this, they have to go through a very complicated and time-consuming application procedure. This, of course, causes annoyance. My questions are as follows. Firstly, the application procedure for compensation for repeated delays is very complicated and forces individual travellers to keep detailed data for a period of no less than 6 months. Does SNCB have plans to simplify this procedure? Can new technologies be used to make the procedure simpler and more customer-friendly? Secondly, SNCB refuses to pay passengers compensation in the form of cash. However, the European regulation on the rights and obligations of passengers in rail transport does so. How does SNCB justify its decision not to pay compensation in cash? Is this not contrary to the European regulation? Thirdly, are you prepared to give passengers a greater choice as to the form in which they wish to receive compensation when submitting their application for compensation? If not, what are the reasons for this? Fourthly, and finally, as Mr Geerts has already pointed out, the ombud service for rail passengers is no longer competent for the compensation procedure. What was the reason why this authority should be withdrawn from the ombudsmen's service? Do you not think it would be appropriate to reassigned this power to the ombudsperson? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u61	Madam Minister, provincial strike days took place in November and December, including for SNCB. On the initiative of Test-Achats, TrainTramBus and Navetteurs.be, an action was launched in which stranded travellers were made aware of their right to compensation in the event of announced strikes. The compensation must be requested by the stranded traveller within 15 calendar days of the strike. If the traveller has a subscription, he is always entitled to compensation in the event of announced strikes. In the case of a traveler with a one-off ticket, compensation can only be provided if the ticket was purchased before the strike notice. Compensation may also be provided in the event of delays. If a train is delayed for at least 60 minutes, the value of a single journey shall be refunded at 100 %. In the event of at least 20 delays of at least 15 minutes or at least 10 delays of at least 30 minutes over a period of six months, the journey shall be partially reimbursed. Madam Secretary, I have a few questions about this. How many travellers have applied for compensation for the different action days? How much will this cost to SNCB? Secondly, how many passengers have applied for full or partial compensation in response to the delays in 2014? How high will the cost be? Thirdly, how many passengers were compensated for strikes and delays in 2014? So it is actually the sum of the answers to the first two questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u62	The data for 2014 relating to the number of applications for reimbursement and the amount of compensation, including the number of files refused, can be found in the annual report of SNCB's central customer service. This report is not expected for April 2015. The compensation scheme will be evaluated and may be adjusted under the new management contract or possibly in an addendum to the current one. The ombudsdienst is indeed competent if travellers ask to mediate on compensation files submitted to SNCB. The European Regulation does not provide for a specific minimum compensation for repeated delays. For this reason, for repeated delays, SNCB does not provide for compensation via bank transfer. In addition, SNCB's aim is to prevent even greater proportions from being assumed by the abuse of the compensation scheme today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u63	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The positive thing is that the ombud service can be involved. At that time, SNCB itself decided not to be competent over that ombud service. Madam Minister, there is indeed abuse when people count all the minutes of delays, even when they have not taken the train. Some see this as a sport, apparently. I believe that there are indeed simpler ways of giving that compensation, for example for subscriptions. A proposal that once circulated was simply to extend the subscription by one day, for the day of any delay or the day that would be compensated. In my view, the system used today is far too complex and administratively too cumbersome.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u64	Madam Secretary, I agree with Mr Geerts. Indeed, I think it would be beneficial for the customer friendliness to reconsider this. This must be done in the context of the liberalisation of the market. I am pleased to hear that you are leaving an opening for a possible adjustment in the context of a new management contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u65	Madam Minister, I understand that the information is being collected, but I would appreciate it if it were not for the committee, but I could also be informed in writing that you are giving me those figures to avoid having to wait until April for those figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u66	Madam President, Minister, my question concerns the use of train equipment. Mr Van den Bergh has just stated that one of the starting points in the new transport plan is to use train equipment correctly. Now it appears that on the line Antwerpen-Centrale (Centrale) Charleroi-Zuid, one of the longest lines in our country, Desiro trains were used instead of M6 double-deck trains. That happened all the time. Desiro trains, however, are not suitable for this and also offer less comfort than the trains that were originally purchased for this purpose. A second observation is that the IC line Turnhout-Brussels has not yet taken a position on the deployment of train equipment at the latest road shows. At that time, the M6 double deckers were deployed, because that was necessary for the capacity. What's going on with that? I have a few questions. Is it true that Desiro... are being deployed on the long axles? Will this be perpetuated or will other train equipment be used for IC lines? Can you give an update on the Turnhout-Brussels line with regard to the existing M6 double deckers? Are they gonna be saved? Finally, what is the state of play regarding the renovation of the 80-83 Break motor vehicles? Is the renovation still on schedule?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u67	(...) deploying Desiro... on IC connections. On a working day, since 14 December 2014, there have been in principle no Desiros on the Antwerp-Charleroi connection during peak hours. With regard to the Brussels-Turnhout line, some busy trains are planned with M6 sets. A limited number of trains in the off-peak hours are also used with four-wheel motor sets. In this way, sufficient capacity is offered. As regards the modernisation of the Break 80-83 vehicles, nine, nine and fifteen vehicles were modernised in 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. The end of the modernisation is planned for 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u68	Madam Minister, I note that the end of the renovation from 2016 to 2019 has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u69	Madam Minister, metal thefts along our railways have been a problem for SNCB and travellers for years. Travellers are still regularly confronted with delays due to copper thefts. A number of actions were taken in view of this problem. In 2008, the working group on metal thefts was set up. The problem analysis identified thirteen judicial districts in which 90% of the facts were committed. In these arrondissements, in cooperation with local and federal police forces, actions were taken by the security services of Securail. In a very specific action in April 2013, even a helicopter with a thermal camera was used to detect copper thieves. Nine arrests were made. A national action plan with the following characteristics was drawn up in 2013: strengthening police operations in the fight against metal thefts and a hundred additional agents for the Railway Police. Railway staff will also be given a partial police authority by a royal decree. Finally, it is no longer possible to pay with cash in the scrap trade. That measure, of course, was intended to deter the thieves. More than a year after the National Action Plan, it is good to look at the impact of these measures. Madam Secretary, has the number of copper thefts decreased since then? Did the number of thefts occur in the 13 districts mentioned as a result of the targeted actions? Is there a shift to be observed? How do you evaluate the national action plan? Should changes be made to the plan? Since April 2013, were actions with helicopters equipped with heat camera dynamometers carried out? What is the result of these actions? Is the working group still active? If yes, what output has it produced recently?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u70	Madam President, first of all, I should like to apologize for my lateness. However, I could not leave the Justice Committee. I would therefore like to thank Members for being prepared to wait. Madam Minister, in 2013 there were an official 810 copper thefts, 40% less than in 2012, the "Old Point" with as many as 1 362 cases. Copper theft was then a real plague, which had everything to do with the high price of copper and the fact that thieves could easily sell their stolen cables. The national action plan was then drawn up, from which the previous questioner explained a number of measures. I just want to mention that there will be stricter penalties for theft from now on. The cables are also dug in by Infrabel and possibly replaced by aluminium cables. These are the measures contained in the action plan. Your predecessor's answers show, among other things, that 90% of those buyer thefts are committed in thirteen judicial districts. It is therefore very specific arrondissements that are sensitive to such copper thefts. Madam Secretary, is the decrease in copper thefts continuing in 2014? Do you have numbers per arrondissement? What is the evaluation of the action plan to date? Where is the execution of the intention to place invisible markings on the buyer? Are any other new measures envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u71	The various measures taken in the fight against metal thefts have led to a sharp reduction in the number of thefts. 1 362 facts were established in 2012, 810 in 2013 and 202 from January to October 2014. A symposium was organised on 23 May 2013 to launch the national action plan against cable thefts. The measures include the sensitisation of scrap merchants, the burrowing of cables, the marking of cables, actions in cooperation with the federal police and prosecution of thieves up to their country of origin. The technical working group will continue to step up the actions. Solutions developed by infrastructure managers abroad are being investigated. Companies that develop and offer new solutions will contact you regularly. The aim of the working group is to develop a solution for any type of equipment that could be desired by thieves. Three principles remain important for the development of the solutions. Firstly, the number of cables is reduced; secondly, the cables are no longer visible and, thirdly, the cables are protected and are therefore more difficult to access. The next few years will be devoted to the roll-out and follow-up of the various technical projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u72	Madam Minister, I note from the figures that there is a significant reduction in the number of copper thefts, and that is a very good thing. My main concern is the delays caused by copper thefts. The three principles on which you want to apply are, of course, very good. The sensitization, which you also spoke of, is important. I would like to come back to one element. Is the working party still following up on the buyer thefts? The next question is a question of detail. In the meantime, has the railway staff been given a wider competence or police authority in connection with copper thefts?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u73	Madam Minister, I would dare to mention the results spectacularly, from 1 362 cases in 2012 to 202 last year, if I have noted that correctly, though figures until the end of October. The action plan is therefore a success. I had also asked about the spread of thefts by arrondissement, but I don't know if you have that information in your possession.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u74	The Minister proposes to provide you with the data.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u75	Madam President, Minister, bus and truck drivers must have a certificate of professional competence from 10 September of this year and 10 September of next year respectively. In order to obtain these basic qualifications, a 35-hour course is required, followed by a continuous training system. All this is defined in a European directive which was transposed into Belgian law. In the previous legislature, questions were regularly asked to your predecessor. This was mainly about meeting deadlines, and informing the persons and bodies concerned sufficiently. There is a lack of clarity in the field as to who should and who should not have this certificate. Meanwhile, there are a number of new elements. In your answer to a question from colleague Van den Bergh in this committee on 5 November 2014, you confirmed that the basic qualification and continuing training examination, which allows the driver to renew his professional skills, remains a federal competence. However, there are still other voices on this issue. The coalition agreement provides for the following. I quote: 'The government, within its own powers, will make the necessary legal adjustments to make the training hours of lorry drivers as training hours.' When a driver finally meets all these requirements, he is given the code 95 on the Belgian driving licence. Only then will it be valid in principle. However, there are also Belgian transport companies, especially in the border region, which employ French workers who have taken the necessary training in our country. Even if these drivers have followed all compulsory hours of instruction, their professional competence and training certificates are not recognised in the country of origin. In France, the code 95 is not applied to the driving licence, but a separate qualification card is issued. Within the FPS Mobility last year a design of KB was prepared to introduce a Belgian qualification card that can be issued to drivers who are in such a situation. A number of things remain unclear about this. In any case, it should be avoided that properly trained drivers will be left without a valid driving licence next year. I have five specific questions. Firstly, will you take any further initiatives to provide adequate information to the persons and bodies? Can an information campaign be launched for the time being? What is the status of the working group working within the European Commission? Will there be any clarifications on the exemptions? Secondly, how many of the drivers to be trained have already followed one or more modules? Thirdly, can you confirm once again that the basic qualification and continuing training examination remain a federal competence? Is there a judgment of the Council of State on this? Fourthly, how do you see the implementation of the passage contained in the coalition agreement? How many hours of ADR training, which lasts five days, will count for the 35 hours of continuing training? Fifthly, on the mutual recognition of training certificates, has the mentioned KB now entered into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u76	The FPS Mobility and Transport has drawn up a list of frequently asked questions related to the scope of the regulatory requirement of competence. He will publish this list on his website in January. In the current Belgian legislation, the exemptions from the requirement of professional competence listed in the European Directive are almost literally taken over. Within the framework of the European Commission's Committee on the initial qualification and periodic training of drivers, a note clarifying the exemptions in the Directive has been drawn up. However, the Commission stresses that that note is not an official interpretation of the Directive. The note shows that the FPS Mobility and Transport has interpreted the exemptions in the same way so far. At the moment my administration is in the process of asking the training centres about the number. What is known is that for passenger transport more than 80% of drivers are already in order. As far as freight transport is concerned, there has also been a rapid increase in the number of drivers undergoing continuing training in recent months. I confirm that the competence remains a federal jurisdiction. There is no judgment of the Council of State on this. It has not yet been decided where ADR training will take place in the five-year continuing training and the 35 hours for the renewal of the certificate of competence. Other topics such as exceptional transport, vehicles for slow transport, garbage collection, etc. are not mentioned in the course content, but this does not prevent certain specific elements relating to these issues from being addressed in the context of the training courses on loading and controlling the vehicle, the blind spot and so on. The Royal Decree of 21 July 2014 introducing the driver qualification card introduced qualification cards for drivers who work in Belgium and are therefore able to follow continuing training here and whose home country does not recognise the Belgian continuing training certificates. At present, only drivers from France have been trained in vocational training in Belgium. The qualification card is recognised in all Member States and is issued to these drivers by the FPS Mobility and Transport. This Decision entered into force on 1 December 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u77	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for her comprehensive reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u78	Madam President, Minister, my colleague Sabien Lahaye-Battheu also asked a question about lost objects a few years ago. There would be a hundred declarations per day and according to the procedure, items that are not collected after 50 days will be given to equipment aid. The newspapers published a list of the ten strangest objects and the most frequently forgotten objects. It's hilarious, and I'll get them to you later. My question concerns the procedure. If you lose something on a train you must not contact the train manager anymore and you must fill out forms. It could be said that things can be found more quickly if the train attendant is allowed to be contacted because they are still on the train. Is the communication on the declaration and removal of lost objects going well? Is anyone really contacted when finding or not finding the stuff? Why does SNCB choose not to entrust train escorts with this task? Sometimes this can lead to a quick solution. How many declarations did SNCB receive on average per day in 2014?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u79	Madam President, Minister, I agree with the question put by my colleague David Geerts. It is reported that about three thousand declarations of lost property are registered per month, of which 60% are registered on the website. Slightly more than 37 % of the found objects would be returned to the owner. It was announced that the procedure to which one is subject should unfortunately lose something on the train or at the station would be evaluated. Madam Secretary, has the procedure been evaluated in the meantime? If so, what are the results? If not, when will it be? Secondly, are changes being considered, such as a larger role for the train attendant at the moment? Thirdly, what is the evolution of the number of items registered and recovered in recent years?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u80	Madam President, in 2012, SNCB transmitted a report with findings on the new procedure relating to lost property to the then custody minister. A new evaluation is planned in the second or third quarters of 2015. The principle is that each customer has to report a lost object to prove that he or she wishes to recover it effectively. With each declaration, the customer receives a confirmation email. Each time the owner is found of an introduced object, a contact is made to find out how and where the customer can collect this object. If the item was still not recovered 50 days after the customer's declaration, the customer concerned will automatically receive an email in which it is notified. All brought in objects the owner of which is not found after 50 days shall be transferred to Stuff Help. SNCB informs me that its procedure for lost objects is in place for its train escorts and that no changes to this procedure are planned in the near future. However, the train supervisor still plays an important role in the handling of a found object. The number of registered items for the years 2012 and 2013 and for the remaining 11 months of the year 2014 was 37 237, 36 260 and plus minus 33 000 respectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u81	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The most striking thing that was found, but with STIB, was a leg prosthesis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u82	I too thank the Minister and I do not wish to replicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u83	Minister, the European Commission has launched an "ambitious" investment plan, called the European Fund for Strategic Investments, which is expected to mobilise €315 billion in three years. According to the press, Infrabel and SNCB have requested, through the Belgian State, the examination of various projects including the finalization of the RER, the Diabolo or access to the port of Antwerp. Given that the 28 countries of the European Union would have deposited together more than 2 000 projects subject to selection for implementation via this fund - a total of 1,300 billion, i.e. four times more than the 315 billion mobilised - can you confirm that the Belgian State has actually deposited the projects mentioned? If so, what are the modalities, what is the follow-up? Do you have any recent information on the attention paid to these projects? Have any other projects been filed in connection with rail transportation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u84	Madam President, Minister, Mr Cheron has already mentioned in his speech the 315 billion that the European Commission would make available to boost the economy. It is important that it was stated that it could include new, but also existing, infrastructure which would have to bring added value. The Diabolo connection and renovations in the port of Antwerp have already been mentioned. In particular, what projects have Belgium submitted in relation to railway infrastructure and by what criteria? What is the timing to know which projects will be eligible for funding? What impact does this have on the multi-annual investment plans?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u85	Madam President, Mr Cheron, Mr Geerts, I can confirm that the Diabolo project, the GEN and improved access to the port of Antwerp were integrated into the European Investment Plan, as were nine other Belgian railway-related projects. These 12 projects representing investments amounting to €1.84 billion over the period 2015-2017 were stepped up by the Mobility and Transport FPS, in collaboration with Infrabel and SNCB. To carry out this work, five criteria set by the European authorities were used: European added value, economic value, maturity, project size and the possibility of mobilising other sources of funding. The result of this work was then forwarded to the Finance FPS, which was responsible for preparing a consolidated list for Belgium. Other investment projects were also forwarded to the FPS Finance by other federal and regional public authorities, but also by private sector actors. Some of these projects were indirectly related to rail transport. After consolidation, the list of Belgian projects was transmitted to the European Commission in November. This list was included in the investment plan presented to the European Parliament by Mr Juncker on 26 November. This investment plan is now available on the European Commission's website. At this stage, it seems important to recall that the investment plan does not impose any obligations on the Member States, in particular with regard to the implementation of the projects included in the plan. It is important to bear in mind that there is no guarantee that the projects, re-entered in the European Investment Plan, will acquire European or private funding in the coming years. This depends to a large extent on the interest shown by the private investors in the Belgian projects, included in this plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u86	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I will not fail to return to the matter in the light of the Commission's deadlines. In any case, I will consult the Commission's website.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic059x.u87	Madam President, Minister, thank you for the answer. I was not aware that these other projects had been published, which is why I only made two reports in my written submission. We'll look at the website.
