ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Vanheste's 6009 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u2	Madam Secretary of State, an annual poverty barometer is published to see how far we are still getting from the targets to be achieved by 2017. Some of the federal objectives in terms of health are to halve the health inequalities between the poor and the rich compared to 2007, to halve the number of families in which no one works, and in terms of income for each family, whatever its composition, at least an income that reaches the European poverty threshold. What does the barometer indicate about these objectives? Actually, not much good. As a mid-term review of the first objective, we read in the decision that the affordability of health care has deteriorated dramatically compared to 2012. The number of people who have to postpone health care for financial reasons has increased from 8% to 14%. On the second objective related to work, we read that the proportion of adults in a family with no income from paid work in 2013 was higher than in 2012 and higher than in zero measurement. For the third income objective, we see little or no difference from zero measurement, in particular about 11% of the risk of poverty. With two more years to go, it seems certain that the targets for 2017 will not be met. This is, of course, not only due to the current government's policy, but nevertheless the poverty barometer is not very positive about the new policy. I quote from the decision of the poverty barometer: 'We are disappointed because of the labour market policy pursued by the current and previous governments. Despite an ever-growing gap between low-skilled and high-skilled, despite the apparent lack of full-fledged jobs for opportunity groups, despite rising youth unemployment, the job seeker is often identified as the culprit for his situation." I also read that the cost of recent savings weighs the most heavily on families with the lowest incomes. Social corrections are often absent. In this way, a counter-redistribution is organised, which threatens to increase inequality in Belgium. Finally: "It is clear that different governments will not achieve their own objectives with current policies. On the contrary, instead of a necessary reduction in poverty, poverty is likely to increase." I think this should appeal to you as Secretary of State for Combating Poverty and Equal Opportunities, just like your colleagues. Madam Secretary of State, what is your response to the poverty barometer? What do you think about the statement that your government will not achieve the objectives of poverty and the elimination of inequality? I have already pointed out that recent savings would weigh most heavily on families with the lowest incomes. Are there any plans to make any changes to that? Finally, I have a question which is also addressed to your colleague, Mr Kris Peeters, but I would also like to put it to you. What concrete measures will you take together with your colleagues to eliminate the growing inequalities in the labour market between high and low-skilled people, between people with and without migration backgrounds, between young people and older people?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u3	Thank you for your question, Mrs Willaert. The figures you quote from both the barometer and other studies are indeed familiar to me. In terms of inequality, the ratio of the equivalent net disposable household income of the 20 % richest compared to that of the 20 % poorest, i.e. the S80/S20 indicator, based on the EU-SILC, is 3.8 for Belgium. This means that the 20 % richest have 3.8 times more income than the 20 % poorest. However, despite these figures, Belgium does not score so badly for inequality in Europe. The inequality is also fairly stable. According to the EU-SILC, the method known to you, the Belgian social welfare system reduces the risk of poverty from 43% to 55%. This is, of course, an important dam against poverty and social exclusion. In order to escape poverty, the federal government also focuses on the social activation of those who are furthest away from the labour market. As Secretary of State, I have a coordinating role and I must ensure that the various ministers take action. Today, the layout of the third federal plan to combat poverty goes to a final phase. This plan has been drawn up with the relevant trade ministers with a view to taking specific, specific and structural measures. It includes a broad view of poverty, in which we want an inclusive and preventive policy, which promotes self-reliance and ensures that fundamental social rights are guaranteed. These consultations are under way, both with the ministers concerned and with civil society. The automatic granting of rights, the fight against child poverty, the people with a migration background, the single-parent families and the raising of the lowest social security benefits are my priorities. In concrete terms, the use of the welfare envelope is at 100 % and the living wage amounts were increased by 2 % from 1 September. However, we all know that it is a multidimensional problem. Different actions are needed in different areas. This also requires consultation with the various federated entities. On the basis of strict respect for the division of powers, I would like to continue addressing poverty and social exclusion, especially with a migration background, at the next Inter-Ministerial Conference on Integration into Society to tackle this issue together with the Länder. However, I cannot and cannot do so alone. Important levers are not only work, but also education and integration, which are state powers. I myself pay particular attention to single women with children. For this I work together with the Women's Council, the Conseil des femmes francophones de Belgique and the Karel de Grote Hogeschool. I have allocated EUR 400 000 to the MIRIAM pilot project, which started in 2015, which provides coaching and guidance for single women, i.e. empowerment. However, I do not like to hear that word. I think it's a bizarre word. It is about supporting and guiding people to self-reliance and finding out where they find it difficult to get certain help. This pilot project will provide intensive and gender-sensitive guidance to increase social and socio-professional integration in society, with the aim of breaking poverty and isolation. This benefits the children in the family and hopefully breaks the vicious circle of children who grow up in poverty. These pilot projects were launched in Antwerp, Ghent, Charleroi, Namur and Sint-Jans-Molenbeek. In the light of recent facts, this is now even more true. However, that takes a lot of time. I am well aware of this, but I am working with the regions on the national action plan on child poverty. As I said before, child poverty is a wrong word for me. It's about family poverty. I also focus on other target groups, such as poverty among people with disabilities. For this purpose, Handiflux, the automatic fee allocation of DG HAN, was launched in June-July 2015, and instead of several certificates with one certificate, it was possible to obtain an automatic fee allocation. I am using this as an example in order to be able to roll out automatic rights over the next few months. Another target group is those with mental disabilities. For them too, we started a project study. All actors are involved: persons with mental disabilities, the Antwerp and Liège management schools and the companies themselves. The persons concerned can themselves carry out a study into why difficult access to the labour market for people with disabilities. This project started in October. Companies are also reminded of their responsibilities. They are also asked to help find a solution. This study is currently ongoing with two persons with mental impairment. They will conduct this study in the coming months. We hope to find out where the thresholds are and what the difficulties are. I hope to receive the first results after six months. It's supposed to run this project for a year, so I can roll this out over the next few years. They are indeed projects, but they are projects with a purpose. These are very specific target groups with a very specific problem. That way, I can then go to the government with an action plan. I started this plan after asking for it from a political point of view. I leave the initiative to the ground, but I myself have also provided a number of initiatives so that I can go to my fellow ministers with those findings and present them with a number of action points.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u4	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, I think you have raised a number of fine projects. I hope, along with you, that your fellow ministers will listen to you and respond to your questions. I look forward to the third federal plan on the fight against poverty. I am very pleased to hear once again that automatic allocation of rights is one of the priorities. It is a coincidence or not, but tomorrow we will have a motion for a resolution on the agenda of the Committee on Social Affairs. I hope that a joint proposal can be drawn up across the borders of majority and opposition. We're willing to talk about this. I also assume that the majority will respond to this question, as you consider it very important. Prime Minister Michel has explicitly mentioned this in his State of the Union and this is demanded by all poverty organisations. I hope that majority and opposition can work together on this. Of course, as you yourself say, poverty has to do with income, apart from projects for target groups. The story of raising the lowest benefits we follow closely, as you know. There is, of course, still a huge gap to close in this respect. We fear that closing it will not be for the present legislature and that we will be fundamentally closer to the poverty line. After all, this poverty line continues to increase itself. On that point, I have a specific question for your colleague, Mr Borsus, about living wages tomorrow. What does the 2 percent increase mean for people in poverty? So I will not dwell on that. The project on single mothers sounds good. I'm glad it's being rolled out in my own city of Ghent. It is a pity, however, that it is again about income, for example, that the income of mommies who work part-time involuntarily because they stand alone, but also because employers often need people who work part-time, has been reduced by the measures taken by the current government. We continue to denounce this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u5	Madam Secretary of State, I have already had the opportunity to ask you several times about the fight against poverty, and I will continue to do so in the light of your policy notes or plans or comments to make. As you know, according to the fifth Federal Yearbook on Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion, just over 15% of Belgians still live below the poverty line. There is no question here of the European poverty line, because in this case the 15% threshold would be far exceeded. It seems to us more than ever necessary to make the fight against poverty a real priority: combating poverty among pensioners, workers, unemployed people, women and children. You will agree that the socio-economic reforms adopted by your government are far from meeting this objective, quite the contrary. As you told me before the holidays, you were considering the development and presentation of a third plan to combat poverty in the second half of 2015. Here we are! I hope that we will get it before the holidays, otherwise we will create a serious political problem. In addition, last May, a motion for a resolution on the fight against poverty was adopted by the parties of the majority of this assembly. Although my group did not support it, considering that it really lacked ambition and that it was far from meeting the expectations of people in precarious situations and those of actors on the ground, we welcomed some requests addressed to the government. One such request was to instruct the Court of Auditors to examine the quality, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the second poverty reduction plan (2012-2014), but also to verify whether sufficient account had been taken of the recommendations contained in the report on the first federal poverty reduction plan submitted by the Court of Auditors to the House of Representatives. Madam Secretary of State, you will agree with me that it is essential, before we begin discussions on a third plan, for Parliament to have access to the report of the Court of Auditors. Could you tell me whether this request was actually made to the Court of Auditors? When will the Commission be able to submit its report, as mentioned in the resolution? If the Court of Auditors has not been brought before it, will Parliament have to do so? If that is the case, I hope that you will be in favour of it and that this item can quickly be set on the agenda of our committee. In doing so, you will be able to take into account any recommendations for which the urgency has been requested in the development of the next plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, before giving the floor to the Secretary of State, I should like to point out to you that any request made to the Court of Auditors must come from Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u7	Madam President, it was with this clarification that I intended to begin my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u8	Madam President, the government or the majority, charged by the latter, could have made the request, which is not the case today. I therefore await the reply of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have no problem with the Court of Auditors carrying out such an audit, quite the contrary. But, as has been pointed out, it is up to the House of Representatives to make such a request. Like the federal government, I am not competent to do that. However, if the House decided to mandate the Court of Auditors, it was clear that it would have my support. Furthermore, the recommendations made by the Court of Auditors will be taken into account. But I repeat that the initiative belongs to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u10	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, but you will easily understand that opposition groups do not want to take this kind of initiative and then be defeated by the majority. It therefore seemed important to me that, through you, the government signify its support for this request. I shall now make this request quickly, hoping that the majority will vote on it when it is submitted to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u11	Madam Secretary of State, you know that the UN Anti-Racism Conference in Durban has been behind us for more than 14 years. We still do not have an inter-federal action plan against racism, racial discrimination and all forms of intolerance. However, this is one of the pillars of the action programme adopted in Durban, including by our country. Just before last year's elections, the Inter-Federal Equal Opportunities Centre called on the parties who would be elected to work on this at last. In its 2014 annual report, the Centre refers once again to that promise. This is necessary because all indicators indicate that people of foreign origin are still under-represented in our labour market and that our society is still little inclusive. Racial discrimination continues to exist in all areas, often in a sneaky way, making it more difficult to combat. The debate on the subject is becoming more and more culturalised. As a result, the focus has been removed from those areas which are ideally suited to promoting equal opportunities and participation, namely employment, education and housing. My questions are as follows. Will you work with your fellow Members on an inter-federal action plan against racism? An action plan covering all social areas, with both repressive and preventive elements? We consider these repressive elements to be important in this regard. To this end, the federal government, the authorities of the Regions and the Communities and local authorities must develop a joint strategy, as they did in 2013 to tackle homophobia. For example, Belgium will finally deliver on the promise it made at the Durban anti-racism conference in 2001 and which has since repeated it several times, unfortunately without result. In 2014, our country has already been called to order twice by the UN Commission for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination and by the Council of Europe's Commission against Racism and Intolerance. I am very much looking forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u12	Mrs Willaert, I am indeed very aware of this Belgian promise which will soon be celebrating its 15th birthday. We see that promise popping up over and over again. If it is not here in Parliament, it is in the numerous reports, to which Belgium is indeed internationally obliged. As you yourself have said, we were reprimanded by the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination and the ECRI, the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance. Also in the context of the Universal Periodic Review we are certainly aware of this. Civil society will also play its part in this. There is certainly a social need, which is hard to deny. I want to investigate this emergency, identify it and see how we can respond to it. Racism is a destabilising factor in every society, limiting people in realising their full economic and social potential. That is why I started a study, together with an external academic centre of expertise, which is now mapping out the existing anti-racism policy, which will identify the gaps and provide an overview of good practices from other countries. On the basis of the conclusions of this work, potential policy initiatives can be examined. We must not rush this either, of course, but I will consult with my fellow Members, both at the federal level and in the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u13	Madam Secretary of State, this study is a good thing, although we already know a great deal, but in order to objectify a number of things, I think that is a good thing. We are particularly looking forward to the potential policy initiatives in this area. I hope that we can land with an inter-federal action plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u14	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, in February 2015, I asked you about the evaluation and possible revision of the anti-discrimination law and asked you about the state of play in the positive action dossier. Because of my maternity leave, you answered that question in writing at the beginning of July. That answer leads me to the following questions. When our country introduced anti-discrimination legislation in 2007, it also provided for a royal decision on positive action. Eight years later, that royal decree is still not there. This morning, it was also quoted on the radio by the director of the Inter-Federal Equal Opportunities Centre following the results of socio-economic monitoring, which are currently being proposed at the Employment Office. There is an improvement in the employment of people with a migration background, but the well-known points remain, namely that they often have less attractive jobs, often not full-time and so on. We shall hear more about these results today. The director put that on the map again this morning, and this also confirms my question about the positive action. You mentioned in your answer to my previous question that several consultations had already taken place in the case of positive action. Madam Secretary of State, is there already agreement with your fellow ministers on the conditions of action and, if so, what conditions? What is the timing to complete the consultation round? When will the conditions to enable positive action for certain groups of workers be transposed into a royal decree? We already have legislation banning and punishing discriminatory behaviour, but targeted actions are not allowed or encouraged by the absence of that royal decision. That is a clear gap in our legislation and I very much hope that you will be able to speed up that dossier more than your predecessors. With regard to the evaluation of the anti-discrimination law itself, you spoke about a committee of experts to be set up. Is the royal decision to achieve this, as you promised, brought to the Council of Ministers before the summer recess? Has that committee been set up in the meantime? At what time will it be able to submit an evaluation with recommendations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u15	Madam President, Mrs Willaert, thank you for your very valid question. We are following that file very closely from the cabinet. From the start of this legislature, it is clear that many people, both members of parliament and equality bodies in civil society, are hungry for legislation on discrimination. Your question in February is an example of this. The file combines two elements. On the one hand, it concerns the implementing acts of the laws of 10 May 2007 and, on the other hand, it concerns the evaluation of the same law. At the beginning of the legislature we examined this issue in detail and we entered into consultations with the Inter-Federal Equal Opportunities Centre and the Institute for Equality between Women and Men. With this background information, it was chosen to carry out the evaluation required by the law, which is already three years too late. That is why I have worked over the past year on the composition of the committee of experts, which is a necessary condition for this evaluation. The KB, which forms the basis for this composition, was approved by the Council of Ministers in July and is currently with the King for ratification. The KB will then be published in the Belgian Official Journal. I'm expecting this the next day. Three weeks after publication, the committee will be set up. It will exceptionally submit an initial evaluation report within a period of six months. So the committee is really on the scaffolding. In 2016, I will aim to implement this evaluation and adapt the legislation where necessary. We also support the findings of the Committee of Experts to draw up the necessary implementing decisions, including those aimed at positive action. The introduction of such implementing decisions before or during this evaluation does not seem logical to me. We must wait for the evaluation and only then take the implementing decisions. I hope I have answered your question. I'm gonna keep this under review anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u16	That is a very good thing, Madam Secretary of State. I assume that after the evaluation and the implementing decisions, the positive action will also follow?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u17	The establishment of a committee of experts was discussed and approved at the Council of Ministers. The KB in this matter is currently with the King for signature. It's only after that that I can officially set up the committee of experts. They may then start their evaluation and report exceptionally after six months. The implementing decisions will then be taken. In fact, therefore, we are speeding up the procedure because it has taken so long.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u18	Madam Secretary of State, my question concerns a sub-problem which is less in the interest. Official rape figures are hallucinatingly high in our country anyway. We have talked about this before in this committee. In 2013, an average of eight complaints were submitted per day according to police statistics. However, 90% of the victims of sexual violence do not report it. Rape is still in a taboo atmosphere. In other words, the real figures are even higher. Rape is by definition a violation of human rights. It is a profound impairment of the victim's physical and psychological integrity. It is therefore important that we come up with a comprehensive plan, a set of measures to deal effectively with rape. Sensitising victims and encouraging them to break the silence is certainly valuable and necessary. The fact that you, Madam Secretary of State, are doing a great deal of work on a comprehensive plan of action is an excellent thing. I would like to talk today about a partial problem. Although women are the largest group of victims, men are also victims of sexual violence. I think there is even less known about this. It is clear that the taboo on this issue is even greater and that the percentage of this is much lower than the real figures. For this reason, a Swedish hospital, of which I will not try to pronounce the name, recently opened up a department dedicated to male victims in addition to its existing facilities. It is very important not to ignore male victims. Anyone who is the victim of sexual violence must be able to count on proper assistance. Hence my questions, Madam Secretary of State. Do you also work specifically on the rape of men? In what way will this aspect be taken into account in your plan of action? Do you have any statistics on male victims, or is there any need for further investigation? In what way do you intend to deal with this? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u19	Mrs van Peel, as you said, rape is also effective in men, but the taboo is even bigger there, so it hardly comes out. Most victims of rape are, of course, women, but that does not mean that we should leave some of the victims in the cold. A study by the Institute for Equality between Women and Men on the experience of partner violence already shows that men share their experiences with partner violence less often than women, 64.8% of women compared with 39.2% of men. So we see a clear difference there. That is all the more true of sexual violence. In that study it is suspected that this is due to the stereotype of men, who must be strong or always enjoy sex, which makes the threshold to seek help or complain much greater than that of women. Therefore, attention should certainly also be paid to violence suffered by men, as this is more often hidden than in women. That is why I have indeed started a study, based on foreign figures, because we ourselves do not have that material, to identify the prevalence of male victims of sexual violence, the circumstances in which this happens and by whom, how best to reach them and what their specific needs are in terms of reception. We will, of course, be very close to Sweden's example. On the basis of this study, I will look into whether there is a need for a specific prevalence study in Belgium or whether we can rely on these foreign figures. In other words, can we extrapolate those figures? In any case, this study and the recommendations for reception will be taken into account in the feasibility study and in the launch of the three pilot projects of multidisciplinary reception centres for victims of sexual violence. In this feasibility study, I specifically requested that male victims should be taken into account for these multidisciplinary centres and, therefore, that specific reception should be provided for men, for additional training or for any other type of psychological assistance, so that both female and male victims could go to those centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u20	Madam Secretary of State, in the meantime you are known to deviate from the beaten track. This too is an example, because you dare to look at subgroups that have not always been given sufficient attention in the past. We must not ignore this problem either, which is why I think it is a very good thing that you take it with you in the pilot projects that you will launch. I am, of course, curious about the results and the specific points or measures. I assume that we will come back to this at a later date, if you come up with your full plan of action.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u21	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, the opinion committee of the Parliament of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation responsible for examining issues relating to equal opportunities for men and women was asked on 6 October 2015 to deliver an opinion on the intra-French-speaking plan to combat gender-based and intra-family violence. This 2015-2019 intra-francophone plan, comprising almost 176 measures, was initiated by Isabelle Simonis, Minister for Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities, in collaboration with the governments of the Walloon Region and the Joint Community Commission. While the 2010-2014 plan aimed at partner violence and domestic violence such as forced marriages, female genital mutilation and honour-related violence, the new 2015-2019 plan presented today extends its scope to sexual violence, namely rape, sexual harassment and prostitution. This consideration of sexual violence is also provided for in the new national plan of action to combat all forms of violence against women under your control today. Madam Secretary of State, we hope that you will present your new national action plan on this important topic as soon as possible. In a previous oral question, you expressed your wish to finalize it before the summer break. Could you inform us of the status of the case? What is the new schedule of work that has been set? When will the federal Parliament really get to know this new plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u22	Ms Winckel, the 2015-2019 National Action Plan to Combat All Forms of Gender-Based Violence is indeed complemented by an important chapter on sexual violence. The plan is also fully in line with the Council of Europe Convention to Combat Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. Before the summer, I submitted a proposal for an action plan to my colleagues in the federal government and federal entities. I am pleased to announce that we will launch this action plan on 24 November, International Day to Combat Violence against Women. The plan will be available for consultation in Parliament next week, starting on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u23	Minister, that's good news! Seeing that the federated entities were moving forward, I was wondering, because this is a theme that needs to be addressed at all levels of power and by all the actors involved. We look forward to this plan. It will be with pleasure that we will also be able to discuss it in the Social Empowerment Opinion Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u24	This item will be on the agenda of the Council of Ministers of the federated entities this week.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u25	Because of the time taken by your colleagues to get to know it, I hope that you have been able to identify ways to achieve the important objectives in this area. Given the numbers, it is essential to combat this violence against women and men, in other words, domestic violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u26	Madam Secretary of State, in the Advisory Committee on Social Emancipation, we have already done an extensive reflection on the issue of rape. This made it very clear that a comprehensive policy is needed and that it is particularly important to deal with victims in integrated centres. You have looked at a number of foreign examples and I would have liked to ask you a few questions. What are your first impressions of what you saw there? Have you seen any elements that would apply to us? Are there things we could do better or else? How does this relate to the pilot project already launched in Ghent today? Have you learned new things with a view to any adjustments?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u27	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, you said last May that you wanted to develop a program to deal with rape victims. This project would enable more people who have suffered sexual violence to emerge from the shadows. According to the figures, only 10 per cent of rape victims would have the courage to file a complaint, while an overwhelming majority took refuge in silence because of fear, shame or guilt. To encourage them to file a complaint and report their abuser, you proposed the establishment of a multidisciplinary team specializing in the reception, support and psychological support of these rape victims. The aim of this project would be to complement the work of doctors and police officers in charge of these sensitive cases and to centralize all the aids available in competent medical centres. Madam Secretary of State, some time ago you cited the example of the Netherlands and the United Kingdom which have such multidisciplinary centres and mentioned a visit which could be the starting point of a feasibility study on the establishment of these multidisciplinary centres for the care of victims of rape. You know that the opinion committee is responsible for this subject and that it has organised numerous hearings in this regard. At last week's study, we learned that this study had been launched. My questions will be specific. Could you give us an account of your mission abroad? What are the work practices and tools that could be replicated at home? Have you associated the representatives of the federated entities? As with my previous question, I believe that this subject should concern all levels of power. Has this project ever been discussed with your federal colleagues and federal counterparts? Could you inform us about the progress of this project?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u28	As I have already announced, I intend to launch a number of pilot projects to improve the reception of victims of sexual violence. Victims now have to go to the different services themselves: police, hospital, justice, counseling and psychologists, and do their own story several times, which helps to revitalize them. They become victims for a second time. I would like to centralise services in multidisciplinary centres so that victims can be helped in one place by the various bodies and be given psychological assistance. These structures already exist abroad. That is why I launched a feasibility study at the beginning of September, which will take a year, in order to check how these foreign models can be adapted to the Belgian context. We are working in collaboration with the University of Ghent because it has already begun similar work. To this end, we visited Great Britain and the Netherlands on a study visit with a delegation of researchers, prosecutors, federal and local police, gynaecologists, paediatricians, psychologists and social workers. I did not go to London but to the Netherlands, but the whole team visited both centres. The reception centre in Great Britain, however, accepts only a small number of people, which has forced us to limit our delegation to about 20 people. In the Netherlands, only two Members were able to accompany us. We therefore invited two members of the Advisory Committee. My firm has also forwarded all the relevant documents. The experience at both centres was also very different. The reception centres in Britain have been in existence for many years, some even for twenty years, but are also somewhat outdated. They no longer provide shelter as is expected in modern times. In the Netherlands the reception centres were only started in 2012. The laws and the police and judicial system are different than in Belgium. So it is not possible to copy the form of the reception centres to Belgium. It is therefore not easy to say what is and is not applicable in Belgium. We have discussed this very much, the various laws, during the meetings. It was very useful to see how they deal with the problem. We will certainly have to adapt their approach to our own legislation and see how we can implement it. These aspects are part of the feasibility study and will be discussed and evaluated with the Steering Committee tomorrow. In addition to the field staff, the offices of my colleagues from Health, Justice and the Interior are part of the steering group and also participated in the study visit. Exchanges are therefore constant. My colleagues from the federated entities are also aware of my plans. I have already informed them of my intention to consult with them as soon as the feasibility study is finalized, in order to be able to launch, together, the three pilot projects (one in Flanders, one in Brussels and one in Wallonia) at the end of 2016, at the beginning of 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u29	Madam Secretary of State, there are a lot of studies in the scaffolding and measuring is known. So I think it would be good to carry out studies, of course, with the intention of landing. Several people have already said it, but I would like to stress once again that we must work hard to reduce the threshold for victims, women or men who have been raped. The integrated work in a center can help with that, I think. Today, the victims have to go to the police to do their story before they are given any care, both physically and psychologically, let alone in the field of justice. It is a double or even triple agony, and we must try to avoid that. I therefore hope that the study will produce results and that we can effectively change some things on the ground, so that we can ensure that more and more women report and, in particular, finally, that the number of rapes is reduced. I am still amazed that in a country such as Belgium, in a western society, so many women still suffer from sexual violence. I find that unacceptable. We must use all our resources to continue fighting and fighting against it. Now there is one possibility for this and we hope that we will be able to achieve results quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u30	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. It is true that the figures are worrying. In fact, 30,000 rapes are registered annually and it is estimated that only 10 per cent of victims file complaints. Seven rapes are committed every day in Belgium. You know, Madam Secretary of State, that the opinion committee supports your thinking. Indeed, it is important to organise better care for victims, in particular to encourage them to file complaints. You talked about the visits. I do not wish to argue here, but I should like to know that the members of the opinion committee of which I am a member have been informed only a week before. In doing so, it was difficult to determine who could participate in these visits, especially since they took place in August. However, the committee was unable to meet and no Member of Parliament was able to accompany you while many members of the committee were interested in the subject. As far as the study is concerned, it is, in my view, a good way to take the problem with arms-to-body. Indeed, the hearings that were held within the committee allowed us to realize that the situations are very different depending on the area in which we are located. Trying to harmonize procedures is already an interesting step. It is now necessary to consider whether a multidisciplinary centre such as the one in question can be an answer. The study you have initiated will allow us to determine whether such a centre would effectively address this issue. We will therefore wait until the end of 2016 and the beginning of 2017 to launch your three pilot projects since our country has three Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u31	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u32	These pilot experiments will therefore be carried out in hospitals in the three regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u33	In hospitals that have already organised a specific reception...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u34	It is the study that will determine the criteria, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u35	She'll figure out what to do, what we need. Then we will decide which of the hospitals and centres in the three regions are the most suitable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u36	Question No 6918 by Mrs Schepmans is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u37	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, it has now been more than three months since Tournai took his share of responsibility for welcoming refugees. Since the beginning of September, the Red Cross, the communal authorities, local associations and many volunteers have been working daily to ensure that everything is done for the best at the Saint John barracks, where, for the moment, nearly 800 refugees live, compared to 520 two months ago. While the government was also committed to fulfilling its responsibilities in this context, I must note today that these were just words that have not been translated into action. The government had thus assured that, in parallel with the reception of refugees, homeless people could still benefit from accommodation at Saint John's barracks during the winter, as was the case in previous years under the cold plan. Today, however, it seems that the government has not kept its promises. I informed Mr Franken of this problem in a letter dated 27 August. After two months of waiting, I received his reply explaining to me that this subject "had been dealt with with with you before the decision on the assignment of the barracks to the reception of asylum seekers", i.e. before 6 August. At the end of his reply, Mr Franken said that he would keep me informed once the solution had been found. I also learn that Defence has also decided to pay for the provision of military infrastructure as part of the 2015-2016 cold plan, which my group strongly disagrees with. Madam Secretary of State, do you confirm that you discussed the problem of homelessness in Tournai with Mr Franken before the Council of Ministers on 6 August 2015? What emerged from this discussion? What solutions are envisaged to provide shelter for homeless people this winter? While it seems to me essential to be able to receive refugees on our territory with dignity, it also seems to me that we must be able to continue to provide adequate responses in the context of the reception of the homeless.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u38	Madam President, honourable Member, in reply to your first question, I can confirm that our firm has worked with the offices of Mrs Marghem, Mr Vandeput and Mr Franken to reach a solution. In the end, however, it turned out that the City of Tournai had itself proposed a place to accommodate these people this winter. The case was therefore considered closed and no communication was made in this regard. With regard to your second question, I should like to inform you that the local winter reception in Tournai does not fall within our remit. We are only competent for front-line reception in the following five major cities: Ghent, Antwerp, Liège, Charleroi and Brussels. Within this framework, we allocate €50,000 of subsidies per city. In addition, we are also responsible for second-line reception in Brussels. With regard to these measures, I refer you to the local and regional authorities. For Brussels, this is more than EUR 1 million for second line reception.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u39	Madam Secretary of State, I suppose you also know that I am the mayor of Tournai. So, when you tell me that the city of Tournai has found a solution and that the firm hasn't been looking for. I think it's making fun of people! Really! Why was the city of Tournai trying to find a solution? Because precisely, we have never received an answer from anyone! When I wrote in August to a whole series of people, who answer me three days before November 1st, just before the start of the Great Cold Plan, I think fortunately that the city of Tournai has thought of doing something! Of course I have a lot on the potato when I'm told that we tried to get together and we tried to find other solutions. No, no solution has ever been proposed to the urban social relay. The only ones who got wet in this story is the city of Tournai! And I regret it. In addition, I was talking about 520 refugees and 800 refugees. Maybe I'm a little off the question and I'm already apologizing for it. But I can assure you that from the start, I always said that putting 700 people in a jar was doing everything to make it go wrong. I have always said that we do not put the assets on our side to ensure that integration goes well and that would promote communalism. In Tournai, when there were about 530 refugees, it was going well. Right now, I can tell you that it's starting to get more difficult, because of promiscuity. Some are trying to tell me it's because of the joint presence of Sunnis and Shiites. No, the problems do not come from there but are due to promiscuity, in a place where we continue to add them again and again. If I wanted to make a sense of humor, I would say that I have the chance to have a delegated official who has always refused flat roofs in Tournai, otherwise we would put people on the roof too!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u40	Question No 7210 by Mrs Hufkens was withdrawn. Ms Lanjri was absent but could ask questions in the discussion of policy notes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u41	Madam Secretary of State, another topic that has been picked up and deepened by some media in recent weeks is that of the loverboys. It seems that Belgium is increasingly confronted with the phenomenon of loverboys. In addition, young girls who are mostly in a socially precarious situation and are therefore particularly vulnerable are often seduced by young men and gradually made dependent and then forced into prostitution, among other things. In order to better highlight the complex issues, the Myria Centre devoted a full chapter to this issue in its 2014 annual report. Today, victims of loverboys are often taken care of in one of the centres for victims of trafficking in human beings. Because the problem is actually very diverse, these centres are not always sufficiently equipped to provide the appropriate support. Moreover, Belgian victims are not always regarded as victims of trafficking in human beings, which means that they are at risk of falling apart. There are separate reception centres for the reception of minor victims, but there appear to be gaps in the follow-up of the assistance when the victim reaches the age of majority. In his report, the centre of Myria refers, among other things, to the expertise that the Netherlands has built up in the meantime with regard to prevention, care and guidance. You have already announced your intention to work on specialised centres for the reception of victims of sexual abuse. We have already talked about this, but I had the following questions specifically. Will you also take a specific look at this issue? Do you have any relevant studies? Are you familiar with the Dutch approach? What concrete steps do you intend to take? Is there also a specialized reception for victims of sexual abuse within the centres or is it appropriate to develop separate care and guidance for victims of loverboys? To what extent is cooperation with other policy areas, such as Justice and Police, and with the Regions (youth care, education, etc.) in order to achieve a comprehensive approach to the phenomenon? For example, Flemish Minister of Welfare Vandeurzen has asked Child Focus to map the phenomenon for Flanders. Are you planning consultations on this, for example, or have you had any consultations on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u42	The problem of the loverboys is also taken very seriously. It is, of course, primarily a competence of the Minister of Justice, who controls the policy on trafficking in human beings, with the various ministers concerned. I am there myself, as are the relevant ministers of the Länder. We have close consultations on this, through the interdepartmental coordination group. Given the coherence of this issue with everything related to gender-based violence, we have launched various actions. These are described in the National Action Plan to combat all forms of gender-based violence. In doing so, we took into account the policy recommendations made on a study day organised by the VZW Zijn. The actions are coordinated by the Minister of Justice, in cooperation with the Minister of the Interior and the Flemish Minister of Welfare. One of the actions is the prevalence study led by Child Focus, to which you yourself referred. I look forward to the policy recommendations that will result from that research. I can assure you that there is consultation and coordination between the various departments concerned, both within the framework of the National Action Plan to combat all forms of gender-related violence, and within the framework of the Inter-departmental Coordination Group on Trafficking in Human Rights. As far as the reception centres for victims of sexual violence are concerned, the intention is, of course, that those victims should also be able to go there. The centres will be open to the victims of loverboys, but of course it is a very specific problem. It's usually about conditioned and vulnerable young people. Probably more specific help will be needed for them. I therefore hope that the study by the Flemish government and Child Focus will shed light on this, so that we can apply their findings in our reception centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u43	Madam Secretary of State, I do understand that your colleague, Minister None, is the leader in this. As you yourself say, this problem also affects a great many of the plans you are working on. It reassures me that you will take this with you and keep an eye on it, so that it does not become one of those forgotten sub-categories. This is about young people, at a time when their character is being formed. It does not seem unimportant to me that we should intervene in a proper manner and in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u44	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, the ratification procedure of the Istanbul Convention is finally coming to an end after about four years. To this end, we have all pulled the cart. This is a very important instrument that has been worked out very well. It is the first binding instrument in Europe to combat domestic violence and violence against women. An important innovative element in the Istanbul Convention is the role that parliaments are given as one of the three partners alongside GREVIO and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I recently attended a meeting in Sarajevo on the role of parliaments in the Istanbul Convention. Representatives of the Institute for Equality between Women and Men were also present. You have indicated that the new NAP against violence for the period 2014-2019 will follow the logic of the Istanbul Convention. Hence my next questions. You have already answered a parliamentary question from me that you think the new NAP is important and that you are working on its elaboration. Is it already clear what priorities you will put forward in order to implement the Istanbul Convention? I have a specific question about genital mutilation. In your policy letter, you indicated that you would develop a protocol to protect women at risk of genital mutilation. What's the progress on this protocol? What measures does this protocol contain to combat genital mutilation? When will this protocol be made public? As already mentioned, the Istanbul Convention attaches an important role to national parliaments, on the one hand, in monitoring the implementation of the Convention; on the other hand, GREVIO will request their reports directly from national parliaments and ask for consultation with parliaments. My specific question concerns Article 70 of the Istanbul Convention, which needs to be implemented. What initiatives can we expect in this respect? What budget will you provide in the coming years to implement the Istanbul Convention? Has this Article 70 already been included in the new NAP that you are preparing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u45	Mrs Van Hoof, on 13 November 2015, last Friday, the Council of Ministers took note of the national action plan to combat all forms of gender-related violence or, in short, the NAP 2015-2019. The plan will be launched next week. It focuses on the following forms: partner violence, female genital mutilation, forced marriages, so-called honor-related violence, sexual violence and prostitution. It shall follow in full the preparation of the CAHVIO. The following overall objectives in line with CAHVIO were defined: an integrated policy; quantitative and qualitative data collection of all forms of violence; prevention of violence, victim protection and support; investigation, continuation and adoption of protection measures; taking into account the gender dimension in asylum and migration policies and combating violence at international level. The aim of the National Action Plan is to pursue a coherent and coordinated policy, in which both the Federal State and the Communities and the Regions work closely together to implement 235 measures. In particular, the Action Plan aims to increase the focus on a victim-oriented, multidisciplinary approach. As you say, this is about collecting statistics broken down by gender. It also aims to improve legislation and regulation, to raise awareness of the general public as well as different target groups, to focus more on training professionals, to pay more attention to early detection of risk factors, to provide better protection for victims and so on. As soon as the plan is launched, I will deliver it to Parliament. As far as genital mutilation is concerned, as we see in the NAP, we will continue to monitor the problem, with a particular focus on prevention and the care of victims. In February of this year, an effective prevention kit was developed by civil society, partly funded by the Institute. This kit serves as a tool for all professionals who are confronted with such practices in the context of their profession. This kit will be distributed and there will also be a new circular on honor-related violence, including female genital mutilation. With regard to the development of the protocol on the prevention and protection of women at risk of genital mutilation, I would like, as part of my coordinating role in the action plan, to call on the various associations, which have already done a great deal of preparatory work, and the Länder to further concreteise this. It will be sent to the Länder to develop this further. With regard to Parliament's involvement in the follow-up to measures implementing the Istanbul Convention, the National Action Plan provides for a specific monitoring system. As the action plan was drawn up according to the CAHVIO, the follow-up of the action plan coincides with the follow-up of the CAHVIO. As in the previous Action Plans, an interdepartmental working group will be set up, representing the administrations of the various administrations under the direction of the Institute. They will prepare progress reports which will also be sent to the Steering Committee. The Steering Committee will consist of the Cabinets of all ministers involved in the Action Plan. The Steering Committee will draw up an evaluation on the basis of the progress report of the working group and will also deliver it to Parliament. This will also be reflected in the National Action Plan. GREVIO, the executive body, will also request regular implementation reports once the ratification procedure is completed, which will soon be the case. It is also intended to deliver these reports to Parliament. It is difficult to set a global budget for four years. We are talking about annual budgets, involving dozens of ministers. That makes it impossible to put a fixed budget on this, given the distribution of powers. Not all measures require a budget either. It is the responsibility of the various ministers concerned to translate their commitments in the Action Plan into action and to make the necessary budget available. Of course, the possible budgetary scope has already been taken into account in the implementation of the actions in the action plan. I cannot, of course, determine the budgets for Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-17-54-commissie-ic268x.u46	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. If the national action plan is to be launched next week, it is important that we set a date with the advisory committee to submit the action plan for discussion. It is an obligation under the Istanbul Convention. That Convention is a binding provision and Article 70 states that it should be consulted with the parliaments. It is important to set out how Parliament is informed annually, including by GREVIO. Article 70 states that GREVIO provides the evaluation reports directly to whom they are interested. It should be planned when this is discussed in the Advisory Committee on Equal Opportunities for Men and Women. This is binding and Parliament must play its role in this. In connection with the protocol, GAMS and INTACT, the only two organisations in Belgium that have built up so much expertise, are underfunded. I believe, however, that they are very competent and know a great deal about the problem in Belgium. This was also demonstrated by a seminar that they organised here in Parliament a month ago. The problem of genital mutilation is very difficult to grasp, as you know. However, they have all the information and expertise in their hands. They also made the kit. Because they are underfunded, they are also limited in their potential, while migration is increasingly determining the phenomenon. We won't be able to dig that in unless we hire those experts. So I think it is important to check, in consultation with the Communities, how who finances or supports what. I realize that there is always a lack of resources, but if we want to do something effectively, it will have to come from these organisations. And they have proven several times, even with the kit itself, that they are really very well educated and know the theme. So I'm making a plea to involve these associations in your policy. It is also a good thing that there will be a debrief for the Attorney General on genital mutilation. The phenomenon is still far too little known, no case is yet brought before the court, lawyers are not sufficiently sensitised. So a lot of groundwork is still needed to ensure that genital mutilation is digged in. You also mentioned GREVIO. It is good that a Member State is sending experts to GREVIO. However, until ratification was completed, we could not send experts there. It would be a good thing that Belgium is late to be interested in being in GREVIO, to also have an expert on that body on behalf of the Belgian government.
