ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u1	Madam Minister, we heard from the press that the government would be working on the removal of sickness benefits for persons residing in prison. The initiative is taken because it is difficult to defend that criminals who are taken up in prison at the expense of society can continue to benefit from health insurance benefits. Can you confirm that the government will shortly take an initiative to deny sickness benefits to persons residing in prison? If so, will the sickness benefits be denied to persons without and with a family burden and will the sickness benefits also be denied to persons in pre-trial custody? Do you have knowledge of persons who abuse the possibility to benefit from sickness benefits during captivity by submitting a declaration of incapacity for work just before the period of imprisonment? Can you estimate the number of persons using this option? Is there a difference in frequency in the follow-up of the disabled person who is in prison, on the one hand, and the disabled person who is not in prison, on the other hand? Is there a data exchange between the FPS Justice and the payout institutions of the sickness benefit with a view to its cessation during a period of imprisonment? If not, how will the data exchange be set up and within what time?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u2	First of all, Mr Spoorje, I would like to point out that the current rules provide that the entitled person who is not dependent and who is in the period of pre-trial detention or deprivation of liberty is entitled to a benefit limited to half. It already is. However, the full benefit shall be granted again to the beneficiary from the first day of the conditional release or from the provisional release and once he has been admitted to leave the institution for an uninterrupted period of at least seven days from the first day of that period. The possibility of removing sickness benefits for persons in effective detention in the short term is currently being investigated by my services. I am not aware that abuses could be distinguished as regards the granting of disability benefits during a period of imprisonment. The person concerned, like the beneficiary who is not in a period of pre-trial detention or deprivation of liberty, will, at the start of the incapacity for work, have to fulfil the applicable conditions of insurability and meet the necessary criteria of incapacity for work before he can claim benefits. So it's not that early. The person resident in prison who is unfit for work must also continue to fulfil the conditions of incapacity for work. In addition to relevant medical certificates and reports, the assessment of this state of incapacity may eventually be carried out by means of a physical examination carried out in prison itself. The medical adviser may request the medical inspector of the Medical Evaluation and Control Office of the RIZIV to carry out an on-the-spot examination. The Medical Council on Invalidity may also order that the state of incapacity for work be examined in prison. You're asking for the data exchange. There is no systematic exchange of data through a specific electronic flow of data between, on the one hand, the FPS Justice and, on the other hand, the insurance institutions which serve as a means of payment of disability benefits. However, by means of a certificate of imprisonment issued by the penitentiary institution, the insurance institution may verify the exact period of detention. I'm fine, but it's not a two-way street. For that period, benefits shall be adjusted. That certificate shall also include periods of penitentiary leave. Each recognised beneficiary has an obligation to notify the insurance institution immediately of any change occurring during his incapacity for work. There are, therefore, measures already in place, but what is now being examined goes even further.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u3	Madam Minister, the conditions for eligibility are actually the same, as are the methods of evaluation. The amount is already lower, probably because certain services are available. I also remember that there is already cooperation, but that we intend to extend it. I'm glad to hear that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u4	Mr President, Minister, the government agreement states that the prosperity envelopes for 2015-2016 and 2017-2018 will be spent at 100%. However, it has become clear from the budget table that the Sibillin phrase 'the calculation of envelopes will be adjusted to take account of the transfer of family benefits to the Communities' simply means that they will be removed from the calculation basis. This means that some 212 million euros will be withdrawn from the envelope over the period under consideration and a further 78 million euros will be deducted in 2018. We are told that the government intends to grant the remaining wealth envelope by fiscal means. We have talked about this on several occasions. As you know, the law of 15 May 2014 implementing the Competitiveness Pact has now entered into force, which provides in Chapter 5 that part of the envelope will automatically be allocated as of 1 January 2015 according to the so-called legal parameters. According to that law, the NAR and the CRB could deliver an opinion on the basis of a government proposal for the use of the remaining part, which mainly concerned resources linked to the application of the parameter to family benefits. I can also conclude from the coalition agreement that the government would continue to give the social partners the opportunity to issue opinions on the use of envelopes. For thousands of benefit recipients, it is now a big question of what they can count on in 2015 to get their benefits to follow the welfare evolution. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Does the law of 15 May 2014 continue to apply and will some benefits be increased as from 1 January 2015 according to the legal parameters? As you know, the intention of this law was to inform the social security institutions in good time so that the adjustments could be granted without any problems. Has this already happened or will a tax technique be applied for the 2015 and 2016 envelopes? Can you clarify this tax technique for me? With this technique, will the beneficiaries of a social benefit already in 2015 see their income adjusted, as would be the case with the current law? Is the advantage one wants to allocate equal to the advantage according to the application of the aforementioned automatic mechanism? How does the tax technique used ensure that the vast majority of the entitled persons will still receive the benefit and the amount that they would receive under the existing technique of increasing benefits?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u5	Mr President, Mrs Kitir, the programme law of 19 December 2014 has indeed adapted the calculation of the wealth envelope by taking out the increases in family allowances, in particular in Articles 181 to 184. After all, we have transferred that power. Moreover, as you know, the decision-making process on prosperity was adapted in Articles 185 to 187. On 15 January 2015, in the context of the social dialogue, the social partners were instructed to propose an implementation based on the specific objectives. The size of the welfare envelope for the three systems of employment, self-employed and assistance or social assistance for 2015 amounts to 319.5 million and for 2016 to 627.2 million. The social partners are now meeting on the use of this wealth envelope. I think I know that this will be done as it used to be in the classic way. The use of the welfare envelope proposed by the social partners will have to be carried out in accordance with the principles laid down in the coalition agreement. On the one hand, this is a first step in the implementation of a measure under the government agreement, in particular the measure aimed at gradually increasing the lowest social security and social assistance benefits to the level of the European poverty line. Priority is given to benefits for those at greatest risk of poverty or the lowest income, as I have already said in the press. On the other hand, two concerns are given in accordance with the coalition agreement. We need to ensure that unemployment falls and inactivity are avoided. The envelope of 127 million committed by the government under the 2015 budget is intended for the social assistance measures related to the index jump. So it's actually an envelope that's linked to whether or not to run an index jump in 2015. That envelope will be used on the basis of the timing of the index jump. You know that it is still uncertain whether there will be an index jump at all in 2015. This use will therefore be decided in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u6	Madam Secretary, I am glad that you want to give the social dialogue every opportunity. If I understand correctly, you give priority to the lowest benefits. My additional question is how much time the social partners will have to give advice on this matter. I understand that the question was dealt with in the social dialogue on 15 January.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u7	On January 15th there was social consultation. On 30 January, the government and the social partners will reconvene.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u8	On the basis of that advice will the welfare envelope be provided?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u9	I hope so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u10	You have already answered the question concerning the 127 million. That's linked to the index jump, you say. For this year it is indeed doubtful, as far as the index is concerned. If there is no index jump this year, there will be no social corrections, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u11	Not normally, as it was planned, but that still needs to be discussed. We have to wait and see if we are going to make an index jump.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u12	Mr President, excuse me for being late, but among my many questions, I chose the ones that seemed to me to be the most interesting. Minister, when a person, as a result of a serious accident or illness, experiences the painful experience of an amputation, then has to undergo a long journey to re-establish his or her life as normal as possible. The most crucial step is the installation of a properly adapted prosthesis to enable it to resume certain activities. In order for the person to resume his professional life or even a sporting activity, he will need a very advanced prosthesis, designed according to the principles of modern technology, with a very high basic price. However, the Minister, INAMI only partially reimburses the most basic prosthetics; it does not intervene at all for the more advanced models. Only amputees with significant financial resources can therefore afford to use it: according to information obtained from well-informed associations, the price of a highly advanced prosthesis is equivalent to that of a small car. That is what creates obvious social inequalities in the face of this ordeal of amputation. Minister, I have already asked these questions to your predecessors. Are you aware of this situation regarding the reimbursement of prosthetics? If so, what is your opinion on the matter? Do you not think that the reimbursement should be extended to the most modern prosthetic models in order to promote better integration into society, whether from a professional, social or sporting point of view, of people who have been amputated? Should not the regulations on the reimbursement of prostheses be gradually adapted as technological developments in this field are taking place? That is the most important question I wanted to ask you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u13	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, the prostheses of the lower and upper limbs are reimbursed by compulsory insurance. This reimbursement includes, on the one hand, basic prostheses and, on the other hand, parts of higher technology such as the electronically controlled knees of these prostheses. This is a partial reimbursement for these prosthetic parts as the available budget was insufficient at the time of its introduction in 2004. In addition, reimbursement of the leg prosthesis type and therefore also parts of higher technology is also related to the patient's level of activity measured by a walking test. With regard to upper limb prostheses, the reimbursement of myoelectric prostheses has been adapted since 1 October 2014 to the technological developments in this field, so that the reimbursement of these high-tech prostheses corresponds to the real progress. Currently, the introduction of a price transparency system for prefabricated equipment services is being considered under the Orthotic and Prosthetic Nomenclature. Possible means to be released may be invested in particular to improve the intervention of high-tech parts for leg prostheses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u14	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I am pleased to hear that there has been a change in reimbursements in the light of technological progress. Perhaps it would be wise to meet with the associations concerned? I'm glad I don't need to use this type of prosthesis. I think we could have a situation as reliable as possible with regard to the problem. I will send you a letter, Madam Minister, hoping that the people concerned will be able to explain their problems to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u15	Minister, the Liberal Mutuality has drawn my attention to the fact that dental expenses are often very high because of insufficient reimbursement through mandatory insurance. Orthodontic treatments, for example, as well as implants and prostheses for the elderly, entail a high additional cost. In this context, more and more private insurers and mutual funds offer insurance to cover these costs. If this trend continues, there is a risk that there will be a gradual gap between those with small means and those who can afford to make financial use of such insurance, which would unfortunately run counter to the principle of accessibility to health care for all. My questions about this are therefore quite simple. Are you aware of this problem? Can you tell me more about the current dental reimbursement measures? If so, are you considering amending the terms of mandatory dental insurance to make it affordable for all?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u16	Mr. Chairman, Ms. Jadin, mandatory health insurance provides for reimbursement of a wide range of dental care. As a result, there is an important, if not integral, intervention for preventive and conservative care, and dental consultations and x-rays also receive almost total reimbursement. Other dental sub-domains such as orthodontics and periodontology, dental extractions and removable prostheses are targeted for target groups most in need of dental care. For orthodontics, treatment is provided to young people up to the age of 22, while prosthetic treatment can be provided from the age of 50. However, a significant part of dental expenditure remains private individual expenditure or to a lesser extent the expenditure covered by supplementary insurance. In 2011, this share rises, according to health accounts, and the source is the Social Security FPS, to some 43%. Depending on the budgetary possibilities, I am committed to considering an agreement with the National Dento-mutualist Commission on improvements in dental reimbursement. Look at the Dento-mut agreement, which is very recent: there has already been a development in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u17	Minister, you're making my reply! Indeed, I am also aware, and I said this morning in the Committee on Infrastructure, that our questions sometimes date and do not always stick to the current situation. Fortunately, Minister, I see that the government is working well and taking on some problems with the body, including this one, for which, of course, one can expect to see as positive a development as possible in terms of the accessibility of health care for as many people as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u18	Mr President, Minister, the right to increased compensation is a financial scheme that makes health care more accessible to low-income people. Nevertheless, it is estimated that hundreds of thousands of Belgians do not take up this right, partly because of the administrative burden on the application or often simply out of ignorance. However, the increased allowance is an essential mechanism to ensure financial access to medical care. The patients to whom the increased allowance is granted see a significant decrease in their annual invoice for outpatient care. In 2012, 1.8 million Belgians benefited from this increased concession. I'd like to highlight a few projects. Within the socialist mutualities of West- and East-Flanders, in collaboration with the Network Against Poverty, in recent months a project has been running to visit potentially entitled single-parent families personally to alert people to their rights and to lead them to the health insurance fund. In this way, one in four families acquired the right to an increased allowance. I'll give you another example During my mandate as deputy of the province of Flemish Brabant, a similar project was set up by the OCMW of Halle with the support of the province. In the short term, some 70 people obtained the Omnio Statute, with the right to the increased allowance. In my view, these two projects show that the threshold is extremely high. However, such projects are too labour-intensive and too expensive to apply on a large scale. From 2015, we have understood, the mutualities will have more information to proactively remind families of their rightful status. The procedure seems rather cumbersome to me. The sickness funds shall communicate to the RIZIV the names of persons who are not entitled to the increased insurance meeting, the RIZIV shall transfer those names to the tax authorities and the tax authorities shall then communicate to the RIZIV the information available to them. The RIZIV will provide the sickness funds with a code that will indicate whether or not the income is lower than the applicable limit amount. It is then up to the sickness funds to decide, on the basis of that code and the information, whether contact should be made with the families concerned. I believe that this will certainly be a step in the right direction, but I believe that this approach does not offer a 100% guarantee that all families entitled to the increased allowance will be reached. Moreover, the procedure seems particularly complicated to me. The coalition agreement states, inter alia, that the government intends to pursue the automatic allocation of rights in the context of further modernisation and computerisation of processes and data flows in health insurance and the use of eHealth services. That's a quote. Madam Secretary, that is why I have the following questions. Have you already considered the problems of the many families who fall next to the boat for increased compensation? Do you have an estimate of the number of families that miss this right? Do you wish to continue with the procedure that should be launched in 2015, with the responsibility from now on being with the mutualities? That procedure is, as I said, quite complicated. Or are you planning initiatives to grant the increased compensation automatically? If so, how long do you see these plans in practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u19	Mr President, Mrs Jiroflée, I am aware that not all families who are eligible for the increased allowance are actually receiving them. As Secretary of State for Combating Poverty, I was also confronted with this. It is not simply that this problem has been the subject of continuous reflection for several years and has led to the reform of the increased concession that entered into force on 1 January 2014. In the light of that reform, the exchange of information between the FPS Finance, the RIZIV and the sickness funds, which you mentioned, was intended to allow the sickness funds to detect potential beneficiaries in order to enable the increased allowance to be granted as soon as possible. Moreover, in order to minimise the threshold for a social insured person, the application form has also been substantially amended. This reform also led to a new information campaign by the RIZIV and by the sickness funds. There are no figures of the number of families who miss the right to an increased allowance. The introduction of the Omnio Statute, which was intended to grant the increased allowance to all low-income families, made an estimate and it was assumed that 800 000 people would be eligible for it. By the end of 2013, around 285 000 persons had the Omnio Statute. During the interim period, however, the regulation on the classic increased allowance has been amended several times, giving families who initially belonged to the target group of the Omnio Statute a right to the increased allowance in the classical way. So those are some communicating vessels. The League of Christian Mutualities estimated that they should contact about 118 000 families in the framework of the proactive flow. It is difficult to estimate how many of these families will also effectively meet the income conditions. Experience also shows that not all persons potentially eligible for the increased allowance wish to apply. The reasons for this are different. Some have little health expenditure and do not see the benefit of it, others do not want to receive a social label. Good management of social security resources requires some caution in the granting of rights. A balance must be struck between, on the one hand, a simplification of the formalities for the social security system and, on the other hand, the necessary control of the conditions of award entrusted to the sickness funds. Before carrying out full automation, it should be ensured that the target group meets the conditions for the increased benefit, which is intended to ensure access to medical care for a family in a precarious financial situation at the time of need for medical care. In that light, the new Royal Decree on the increased allowance provides that the sickness funds shall provide the RIZIV with certain information on the beneficiaries of the increased allowance. The RIZIV will analyse and evaluate those data every year. On the basis of this information, new profiles may be established, where appropriate, of insured persons to whom the right may be granted or automatically granted. The first analysis based on 2014 data will therefore be carried out at the beginning of 2015. The RIZIV must first have all the data if it is to be possible to carry out a proper analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u20	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I also understand that it is a difficult matter. I insist that the procedure worked out with the sickness funds is a step in the right direction, but that it is quite complicated. I note that there will not be a general automation of the increased allowance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u21	It may lead to this, but it will have to be done step by step.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u22	Mr President, Madam Minister, since April 29, 1994, there has been a law recognizing the profession of an educator specializing in psycho-educational accompaniment. It comes to my mind that, at present, this law has never been the subject of an implementing order, which poses a real problem for all students in this field because their status is not protected. This also poses difficulties for them in their search for adequate employment. Madam Minister, would it not be possible to finalise the recognition and protection of the status of teacher specializing in psycho-educational accompaniment, so that the holders of this diploma, who have, at least in the French Community, completed higher education, can finally find a job more easily in relation to their qualification?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, according to the information available to me, these are professionals who provide psycho-social and educational support to individuals in difficulty, such as adolescents with socially inadequate behaviour. These professionals are also often used to assist persons with disabilities in carrying out activities of daily life. They are therefore not health professionals, but rather people with Community competence: support for people and education. In doing so, I would be grateful if you would excuse me, but I cannot answer your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u24	Mr. Chair, Minister, your answer has the merit of being very clear. I would simply like to know what was the situation with regard to the taking of implementing orders. This request is made by the students concerned. The important thing is that the situation can be clarified at some point and to know who to turn to. Of course, this does not change the substance of my question, which focuses on the deplorable situation of students pursuing studies whose interest is justified. They must be able to make good their achievements. Colleagues will relay this problem at the level of the French Community. In any case, minister, thank you for answering my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u25	I hope that your colleagues will be more successful than you when they question the competent minister at the level of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u26	Mr President, Madam Minister, as you know, adoption leave is obviously a major factor in relation to the integration of the child who is adopted into his or her new family, the relationship that must be established between the child and his or her adoptive parents. The development of the necessary security and affection for the development of the child takes time, especially since these adopted children have also suffered, in a large number of cases, a break in relation to their country of origin or even in relation to the place where they were housed. Today, the current system is obviously very poor for adoption leave since in the self-employed scheme it is a ‘adoption' premium. Under the employee scheme, adoption leave is 6 weeks for a child up to 3 years, 4 weeks for a child 3 to 8 years and 0 days for a child over 8 years of age. These are some of the shortest deadlines in Europe and it is extremely challenging. I have already mentioned this long-standing problem and have re-tabled a text under this legislature. You yourself have been questioned by the "Maternity Leave for All" collective who sent an open letter to the federal government asking for adoption leave to coincide with the leave granted to biological parents. Minister, I am asking you about your position with regard to adoption leave and, above all, about the huge differences between it and maternity leave. Have you responded to this open letter from the collective and what concrete answer can you provide in the interests of the child? It is also known that the number of adoptions is very small and is declining in recent years; in 2013, 235 adoptions were made in Belgium. Consequently, what, in terms of budget, can be represented by the extension of adoption leave; I think this is particularly weak. I do not know whether a budget projection has already been made. If that is the case, I would like to know the content.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u27	Mr President, Minister, I agree with Mrs Fonck, in particular because the collective Mother's leave for everyone sent an open letter to the federal government some time ago asking for the different deadlines of adoption leave to be adjusted. Depending on the age of the child, adoption leave is now different. For a child under three years of age, it is six weeks, for a child between three and eight years of age, four weeks per parent. For a child over the age of eight, there is no right at all to adoptive leave, as if suddenly there is no need to take care of that child. That's a very bizarre arrangement. My first question is therefore what plans you have for changing adoption leave. Do you see possibilities to harmonise this, so that it no longer depends on the age of the child? You will find in us a supporter. We ourselves have a bill that we want to provide for six weeks for every underage child, regardless of age. In addition to adoption leave, I would like to draw attention to foster care leave for foster parents. The demand for foster parents is enormous not only in Flanders, but also in Wallonia and Brussels. We must not underestimate the role of foster parents. In Flanders alone, more than 6,000 foster parents receive children. Minors and caregivers are also taken care of in foster homes. This requires a great deal of effort from parents and foster families. There is not much leave for this either. Today we give up to six working days, which is very little. Moreover, these six working days are limited to the foster family and not to the foster parent. It is necessary that both foster parents can establish a good relationship with their foster children. Madam Secretary, as you know, both foster parents are very often asked to go to the juvenile court and not just one. It is therefore also important that both foster parents should be able to take leave at a certain time. That number of days is very limited, six days. That's not much. We would like to add a few days to that. What opportunities do you see to extend the foster leave and grant it to both foster parents rather than to the foster family? Do you have any proposals or are you prepared to cooperate with Parliament on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u28	Mrs Fonck, I assume that your question concerns parents who are not biologically related to the child, i.e. the situation in which two parents are applying for adoption of a child. Currently, under the paid scheme and the independent scheme, each non-biological parent is entitled to adoption leave of up to four to six weeks depending on the age of the child. The maximum duration of such leave shall be doubled when the adopted child has a disability. The extension of this right, as proposed in the legislative proposal submitted by you, thus also has an important impact on labour law, in particular the longer suspension of the employment contract, for which my colleague, Mr Peeters, as Minister for Employment, is indeed competent. As Minister responsible for employee benefit insurance, I can tell you that this proposed extension, according to the draft law on the right to adoptive leave for the budget of this benefit insurance, represents a multi-issue which is estimated at a maximum annual rate of 1.3 million. It should also be noted that in these proposals total leave is higher than for traditional parents. There is therefore a need for further research and at least negotiations with my colleague. Finally, as regards the question of foster care, my colleague, Mr Peeters, as Minister for Employment, has the power to determine the various arrangements for this leave, since the right to leave for foster care is governed by Article 30c of the Law of 3 July 1978 on employment contracts and compensation for the leave to foster care is provided by the National Employment Office. Mrs Fonck, we read the letter opened by the media, and then we welcomed the Collective "Maternity for All" last week. We are now considering the possibility of changing the adoption leave. For the rest, this concerns the Minister for Employment, with whom I will have to consult.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u29	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I note that you are not at all - and I would even say: on the contrary - opposed to the possibility of obtaining advances in terms of the length of adoption leave. You recalled the change from four to eight weeks, and that's important. However, parents of adopted children over the age of eight are not granted leave. And there are many cases. Therefore, I will support you as much as possible and will try to press for progress on this adoption leave issue. If we want to be honest about the budget, we must remember that this represents a financial mass of less than 1%, or even 0.5%, of the budget allocated to maternity leave. It is therefore possible to take action in this area. Second, adoption leave, taking into account the links it makes possible to weave with the child, would in some cases avoid resorting to sick leave in a second stage. That is why this could be relatively neutral in terms of budgetary impact. In terms of quality and health, this measure would result in net added value, including for children. I hope, therefore, that we will be able to make progress in this area and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u30	Mr President, Minister, I did not really want to replicate, I just want to ask if you have actually answered my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u31	Your question was what the plans are. People are looking at it. The budgetary impact has already been calculated. It is also necessary to consider whether we are going to harmonise this, whether we are going to take a step forward and whether we are going to take account of the age of children. I'm not going to anticipate that. In Flanders there is now an application stop for adoption, which was communicated this week. I would like to do my part of the work, but I would like it to be done on that side. It is a right to adopt a child in order to raise a child, while a candidate stop for adoption is now being introduced because there is too large a waiting list. What are we doing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u32	Madam Secretary, you did not mention my name once in the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u33	I've started by mentioning your name.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u34	Then I didn't hear it right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u35	Then you really haven't been paying attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u36	You say that it is a responsibility of Minister Peeters, and we will ask him about it. You are now saying that everyone has to take responsibility, and that is not a problem either. However, you say that there is an adoption stop in Flanders. There is a stop to the registration for domestic adoption because parents have been waiting for 15 years now. That's not about all the adoptions, because fortunately there are also foreign adoptions. This does not mean that there will be no adoptions in the coming years; there will still be and there will be. I have also spoken about the more than 6,000 foster homes, and we must look at them as well. We need to see what is best for the child: those children also have a right to a good home. Those foster parents should have the necessary time and the six days they have now is absurdly little. We should work on that. Are you saying that you are not at all competent for this enlargement?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u37	Foster care leave is the responsibility of the Minister for Employment. I repeat what I said earlier, because you say that you have not received an answer. I repeat my answer. It is the Minister for Employment who is competent to determine the various arrangements for this leave, since the right to leave for foster care is governed by Article 30c of the Law of 3 July 1978 on employment contracts and the reimbursement of foster care leave by the National Employment Service. So I had nothing to do with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u38	I'll ask the Minister of Work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u39	Mr President, Minister, this question has been in the pipeline for a long time, but you have actually already answered it. At the hearing on your policy paper, you already replied to the question concerning the postponement of the third-party payment scheme. I already got an answer back then, while my question was still in the pipeline. So I don't want to bother you with that again. I maintain my question, but the answer was clear. It was postponed to 1 July for technical reasons. Will it stay that way? You're gonna make it to the 1st of July? You do not need to repeat your answer entirely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u40	I told you that we had to postpone it for practical reasons. In the meantime, we have also taken the necessary steps, so that we will be there on 1 July. You can also convert your question into a written question; then you have the answer again on paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u41	We'll do it like this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u42	As Mrs Caprasse is not present, I shall pass the floor directly to Mrs Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u43	Mr.President, Madam Minister, a first step in the recognition of close caregivers has already been taken under the previous legislature, with the passage of the Act of 12 May 2014 on the recognition of close caregiver helping a person in a situation of great dependence. This law defines the caregiver as "the person who provides continuous or regular assistance and support to the aided person"; the aided person is the person who is recognized in a situation of great dependence. The Act also sets out the conditions that must be met in order to be recognized as a close caregiver. This was obviously only a step and we cannot leave it there, since it would then only be a symbolic law. The recognition of close caregivers must be able to continue by introducing a specific thematic leave for close caregivers, assimilated to the level of the pension, by determining access to social rights for close caregivers in the areas of health care, compensation and unemployment, and by improving the consideration of the burden of dependency at the tax level. These are the main areas on which concrete answers can be given to these people. During the discussion on the general policy note on persons with disabilities, your colleague Mrs Sleurs, who was asked by a colleague, replied that the government would focus on continuing the recognition of close caregivers. I interviewed her recently in this regard and she sent me back to you. Minister, beyond their recognition, what concrete progress can be envisaged for close caregivers and within what time frame? I am fully aware that several ministers are competent, given the various facets of this problem. But it seems to me important that a minister seizes it and mobilizes his various colleagues. I thought it would be Mrs. Sleurs; but it's also very good that it's you. Of course, there is always the budget question, but if we were to quantify the voluntary investment of these people, it also represents an extremely important budgetary economy for the State's finances, beyond all the qualitative contributions of the assistance provided by close caregivers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Fonck, for your question. Close caregivers play a vital role in our society. Through the help they provide, they alleviate the difficult situation of the people they attend. By adopting the Act of 12 May 2014 on the recognition of close caregiver, assisting a person in a situation of great dependence, the federal authority wanted to show its appreciation for the tireless efforts of close caregivers. Indeed, the aim of this law is to allow recognition as a close caregiver through mutuality. Recognized caregivers may be entitled to certain benefits from the federal authority. However, these benefits still need to be defined. Four royal decrees are necessary for the implementation of the law of 12 May 2014. First, it is necessary to establish who can be recognized as "a person in a situation of great dependence". Secondly, it is necessary to define the minimum time to be spent on close assistance activities. Thirdly, pathologies should be identified which are taken into account in the context of regular assistance and assistance from a close carer. Fourthly, the maximum number of close caregivers recognized per person in need must be determined. An exchange of views with the Communities and the Regions on the content of these four royal decrees is in any case necessary. As you have already mentioned yourself, several contacts must be made. The Communities and the Regions have already taken many initiatives with regard to close caregivers. It is preferable that the federal authority seek to link these initiatives. Indeed, different definitions and procedures should be avoided depending on the authority granting the advantage, since a proliferation of procedural definitions would certainly not help close caregivers and dependents. I hope that the social partners will pay the necessary attention to the specific situation of close caregivers when they look at the new career model, offering more opportunities and flexibility for workers. The social partners are invited to do so by the agreement of the federal government and, depending on the results of the social dialogue, the federal authority will be able to create certain advantages for close caregivers, which will give meaning to the continuation of the implementation of the law of 12 May 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u45	Minister, we agree on the added value of close caregivers. Of course, the four royal decrees must be made in a concerted manner. I have no problem with that. The fact is that once this stage is reached, there will be recognition, but there will of course not yet be any concrete measures to help them. I would therefore like to stress all the other issues because, recently, the government has gone back twice in relation to the reality of close caregivers: on the one hand, unmotivated time credits and, on the other, income guarantee allowances, while many close caregivers worked part-time and had this income guarantee allowance, which allowed them to devote time to the helped. We have to be creative. I really think that some things can be achieved, for example in terms of motivated time credits and in line with the various proposals I have just made. Madam Minister, if concrete answers and measures could be put forward, it would be just as important as the four royal orders that must be made, of course, but that will not be enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u46	Mr President, I propose to turn my question No 1427 into a written question in order to save time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u47	I'll take note of that. Mrs. Fonck, we thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u48	Mr. Chairman, my question may give rise to a smile. Probably it will relax the atmosphere if necessary. Nevertheless, this subject deserves our attention. In a recent press article, a veterinarian denounced an apparently increasingly common practice observed in some doctors whose patients own domestic animals: the prescription of drugs intended in reality for their pet. As animal medicines are obviously not reimbursed by social security, owners of domestic animals find in this alternative practice a privileged but illegal way to benefit from the reimbursement to which they cannot claim. These facts are also a source of unfair competition, denounced by some veterinarians. Minister, in addition to being illegal, these facts are particularly scandalous. Can you therefore confirm to me the existence of such practices? If so, to what extent have your services found it? Can you tell me what device you intend to deploy to eradicate this phenomenon? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u49	Mr Clarinval, if a health care provider knowingly drafts or issues such prescriptions, he commits an infringement of Article 2 of the Royal Decree of 21 December 2001 on the intervention of insurance in the cost of proprietary medicinal products. If so, this is a serious ethical error to report to the Order of Physicians. In addition, he commits a forgery in writing. So there are three offences. The administrations that are under my supervision have so far not received any communication or complaint in this regard. It is therefore impossible to confirm the existence of this phenomenon or to measure its extent. As regards the possible detection of the phenomenon, I can make it clear in general that an analysis of the prescription profiles via the data banks for the reimbursed pharmaceutical products would not provide any information in this regard. In the event that the administration is informed of such facts, the competent authorities would conduct appropriate investigations and, where appropriate, verbalize and forward the files to the judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u50	Madam Minister, thank you for this very clear answer. However, some veterinarians complain about such events. Further investigation should therefore be carried out, in particular by interviewing veterinarians who complained in the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u51	As long as it's not the animals...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u52	Yes, it would be more difficult. I am reassured that you have not detected such facts. But that's the kind of information we don't invent. There must be some clever little ones who act like that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u53	As I said, then we must inform the administration. Without a complaint, she cannot intervene. In addition, there are risks to animals. In fact, doses are always calculated for an adult of seven hundred kilos. Few animals reach this weight.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u54	We'll put Gaia on the case!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u55	For animal welfare.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u56	Madam Minister, my question concerns the fight against fraud in health care. Regular media reports of health providers who shuffle or turn big, e.g. kidney specialists or dentists, appear. Recently, home care also came with some fraud cases in the media. I would like to place that in a broader perspective in my question. Of course, the cowboys have to get out. Let us be clear, however, that we are talking about a minority. I would like to know your opinion on a more structural approach to fraud-sensitive cases in our system. One can focus on practical registration, financing and control rather than chasing down the individual cowboys. Sharing and comparing health data would also help us move forward. What concrete measures will you take to combat health care fraud? Are you in favour of practical registration and, above all, of practical financing and control? Do you intend to enable the sharing, comparison and better use of patient health data?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u57	Mrs Dedry, the RIZIV is at the heart of the fight against fraud in the health sector. It has already taken several concrete measures to tackle health fraud. These tasks are primarily undertaken by the Administrative Control Office and the Medical Evaluation and Control Office. They shall consult with the Medical Services. Measures to combat fraud can be found in the respective annual reports of the two departments. New initiatives are also planned in the framework of the RIZIV anti-fraud committee on health care set up in 2014. This is defined in Article 13 of the Law on Insurance for Medical Care and Benefits. The committee shall be composed of members of the RIZIV and the insurance institutions. The main objective is to strengthen coordination between RIZIV and insurance institutions in various areas. This allows specific actions by target groups, the detection of fraud and the necessary regulatory adjustments resulting from these actions. In recent years, the Medical Evaluation and Control Service has increasingly carried out thematic controls rather than individual ones. To this end, national projects are being carried out in the Cellule d'Equipment Nationales of National Survey Cell (CENEC), of which the 27th project has recently been launched. In addition, the department of Expertise/Evaluation also expands to analyse global studies, larger collections of the nomenclature and the behaviour of groups of caregivers and, if necessary, to adjust them in different ways, from information provision, advice, benchmarking to confrontation and interplay. The Health Section of the federal government agreement contains a separate chapter, the enforcement policy. This lists the various measures which should lead to a much closer monitoring of the health sector. One of the final objectives is indeed precisely the structural monitoring of the sector with all its target groups, in addition to tackling possible individual cases of fraud. Several initiatives will therefore be taken to obtain validated, rapidly available billing data on the RIZIV. This requires intense cooperation with insurance institutions. The consultations are planned for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u58	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u59	Madam Minister, my question was actually addressed to Minister Peeters, but apparently it was passed on to you, which surprised me. On 24 July 2014, the KB published the paper meal cheques, which will be abolished from 1 January 2016, unfortunately only the paper meal cheques. The National Labour Council delivered a unanimous opinion on this subject. The last paper meal cheques that may be issued to employees will relate to the performances of September 2015. All paper meal cheques issued in 2015, i.e. since 1 January, will, by way of derogation from the basic validity period of 12 months, be valid until 31 December 2015. I, together with Mr Clarinval, tabled a legislative proposal at the time to extend that deadline to one year. When I read that, I did not understand why it was decided to limit the validity of all paper meal cheques until December 2015. Experience has shown us that just the short period of validity gave rise to a lot of lost meal cheques and a lot of lost money. I do not think that this regulation is transparent at all, either for workers or for employers, who cannot recover the cheques either. This will give rise again to the loss of meal cheques. The validity date of many cheques will have expired. When offering meal vouchers outside the period of validity, they are thus lost, both for the employee and for the employer. So they're actually disappearing into the portfolio of the issuing company. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Why do we not respect the validity of 12 months when the paper meal cheques are abolished? Perhaps you have made arrangements with the issuing company of the meal cheques to make the abolition as optimal as possible? In that case, I would like to hear what appointments have been made. How is the shift from paper meal cheques to electronic? The electronic ones remain in existence. What is the number of paper meal cheques issued in the last three years, per month? So we can see the evolution of the decline. What is the number of electronic meal cheques issued over the past three years, including a month? In this way we can see to what extent one system replaces another. It would also be logical for the definitive abolition of the paper meal cheques to provide for a much longer transitional period in which the paper cheques can continue to be used. Will you extend the validity of the paper meal cheques? How will you avoid a lot of paper meal cheques being lost or can no longer be used? As you know, I am in favour of the complete abolition of meal cheques, both paper and electronic, and their addition to pay, under the same conditions as those to which the meal cheques are subject today. I have tabled a legislative proposal on this matter. It was co-signed by my colleague Van Quickenborne. What's your opinion on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u60	Mr President, Mr Vercamer, I remember your passion for meal cheques from when you laughed at us during an intervention in plenary. All madness on a stick, it is indeed an important matter. Since the introduction of the meal cheques and until August 2013, the period of validity of the paper meal cheques has always been three months. Following a parliamentary initiative that led to the law of 14 April 2013, the period of validity was increased from three months to twelve months. The Royal Decree of 29 June 2014, published in the Belgian Official Journal of 24 July 2014, provides for the full generalisation of the electronic meal cheques on 1 January 2016. That decision states that the paper meal cheques will still be delivered for benefits in respect of September 2015 and that the meal cheques issued in 2015 on a paper carrier will only be valid until 31 December, i.e. for three months. This is the result of the view expressed by the social partners in Opinion No. 1902 of the NAR, on 25 March 2014. As regards the number of cheques, my services do not have this information because meal cheques which meet the criteria laid down in Article 19a (2) of the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969 are not considered as wages to be subject to social security. Only the various publishers of meal cheques have this information. The relevant KB was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 24 July 2014, giving the various actors plenty of time to take the necessary measures. As already mentioned, a comprehensive study was carried out on how the transition could best be organised. A short transitional period is preferred by all parties concerned and was thus planned at the request of the social partners. I have heard that they have studied various transitional and exchange systems, but those slopes were not stopped because they would lead to even more red tape, while the measure fits in with the agreement on administrative simplification. The replacement of the meal cheque with a direct payment of the benefit along with the wage, but where the award is made under the same conditions, so not subject to social security contributions or else we would have problems, is a slope that could in principle lead to more administrative simplification. The government can investigate this slope. And this could, indeed, not only fall within my competence but also within the competence of several ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u61	Madam Minister, it is strange that we now want to shorten the period of validity, while the period has just been extended, precisely because the experience and the facts have taught us that keeping the period of validity so short meant that much money was lost to millions of euros for employees and employers. That seems to me to be a very peculiar reasoning. Secondly, you are talking about administrative simplification. Now, the best administrative simplification is the total abolition of the system. Madam Minister, perhaps we should open up the exercise. In addition to the paper meal cheques that are being abolished, we are still left with the paper ecocheques, with all the gift vouchers, and I am not talking about the other 80 extralegal benefits to compensate people. Would it not be appropriate to make the exercise whereby employees and employers may agree to convert these benefits into a kind of savings account, career savings account or whatever, using the amount saved to finance their own periods of inactivity and the like? I am thinking, among other things, of the unmotivated time loan. It could also be a deposit in a group insurance scheme. Such a system seems much more useful to me than compensating for work through cheques and vouchers. I believe that we should take this road to abolishing these things.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u62	The new programme law provides, among other things, for a doubling of the waiting period before an invalidity allowance can be applied. The waiting period is increased from six to 12 months. Is there now more clarity when the new conditions will apply? The Programme Act merely states that it would be as soon as possible in the course of 2015. I assume that the new conditions apply only to people who become disabled only after the new measures have been introduced and who do not work retroactively. What happens to someone who is already receiving disability benefits but has not worked for 12 months before being entitled to benefits? The programme law doesn't say anything about that. Is there any estimate of the number of people who are no longer entitled to an invalidity allowance because of the new conditions? Is additional funds provided for the OMCWFs to cover long-term ill who will be excluded from a benefit from this year and for the rest of the legislative period?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u63	Amendment No 33 on the raising of the waiting period was adopted at a December meeting of this committee. It states that the date of entry into force of this measure will be determined by a Royal Decree. This measure will not be introduced retroactively. As soon as the measure comes into force by law, it regulates the situation of the risks of incapacity for work which may arise from that date. The exact budgetary amount is difficult to calculate. It is necessary to examine the number of beneficiaries who effectively open up a right to benefits after the waiting period has been completed. This information is currently not available. In addition, many exceptions should be taken into account, such as the reduced waiting time and the exemption from waiting time. These latter situations do not lead to any savings in raising the regular waiting time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u64	It is reassuring that it will not happen retroactively. We hear disturbing reports from people in that case. It is still a difficult measure for us. The comparison is made with abroad, but it is only invoked when it suits the government. One should only be working for 11 months in the job of one's life and then get cancer. It's a tough case to knock on the OCMW's door.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u65	That's not a good example. If you get sick, you're entitled to health insurance. People with cancer aren't waiting at the RVA.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u66	Mr President, I asked the Minister of the Interior about this last week, but he sent me back to the Minister of Health. Minister, absenteeism at work because of illness is a constant concern of private and public companies. The police forces have not escaped the phenomenon and have recorded record numbers in terms of absenteeism for many years. In this regard and since 2004, the Federal Police has developed an action plan to reduce absenteeism at work. Medical checks have been optimized. Initiatives have been taken to provide more adequate medical and psychosocial guidance to staff and to maintain them in good physical condition. Specific trainings related to absenteeism have also been set up. In the context of this fight against absenteeism, the police area Houille-Semois, which covers the commune in which I serve as mayor, recently requested the services of Medex, a specialist in the field of medical expertise. Medex responds to requests from two types of clients, which correspond to two different types of controls: on the one hand, the administrations affiliated with Medex for the control of absences from health care; and, on the other hand, the administrations of the Federal Public Service. Workers who belong to the first category are checked by doctors who come to their homes or to whom they are led to surrender themselves. Those in the second category must go to the medical centre on which the administration depends. Desirous of optimising its absenteeism control system, the Houille-Sémois police zone expressed its will to obtain affiliate status, but was denied by Medex who declared that he was not "temporarily interested in obtaining such approval". The Minister of the Interior, for his part, told me that all requests made by police areas were systematically refused. So we were not the only police area concerned. Minister, why does Medex refuse to take over police control? They are nevertheless part of the public service... In addition, can you tell me the exact nature and reason of the difference made by Medex between the so-called "affiliated" administrations and the others?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u67	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Clarinval, within Medex, there are two control systems: one for non-federal clients and the other for federal clients. With regard to the non-federal administrations affiliated with Medex, the monitoring of sick absences of public servants is currently carried out in the Medex medical centres by the Medex doctors. Given that the number of doctors available in the centres is limited and that the doctors must carry out other tasks (expertise in the context of accidents at work, pension schemes, road safety), the only solution available to him is to summon the officials in his centres for a check, according to the schedules of his doctors. In 2006, another control system was established. In doing so, monitoring missions are assigned electronically, according to rules pre-determined by the federal authority, to a network of independent physicians under the supervision of Medex. Currently, this system applies only to federal governments. Due to organizational, budgetary and technical reasons, it is not possible at this time to consider extending this system to Medex's non-federal clients. In order to be able to carry out the check on sick absenteeism in the local police area, in accordance with the ministerial circular of 9 January 2007, Medex should apply to the Director of the Medical Service of the Integrated Police. Given the limited availability of its doctors, Medex decided not to apply for this approval because it would not be able to respond to the requests for control and guarantee the necessary medical quality.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u68	We must go through foreign service; this is what we do in Charleroi.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u69	This is also the case with us, but external services are far less effective than Medex.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u70	Depends. Make a deal
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u71	We made a deal...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u72	Quality control must be provided. Would you like me to pass on the technical clauses to you?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u73	With pleasure! But I sincerely believe that police areas are public administrations. I can understand that for budgetary reasons and the lack of doctors, Medex does not want to broaden its scope. However, in this particular case, Medex's support would be particularly appreciated. As far as we are concerned, external services are not sufficiently effective, and the rate of absenteeism is alarming. So I would like to draw your attention to this and ask you to encourage Medex to reconsider his position. But I imagine that a budgetary debate is behind this question. Thank you for your answer and I also thank the President for his assistance in preparing the specifications.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u74	Madam Minister, during the discussions on your policy paper, we have repeatedly stressed that social security can only survive financially if there are more people at work. Therefore activation of those who do not work is essential. Job seekers therefore need guidance to work, because they do not automatically get a new job. I was lucky to attend a meeting recently where the RIZIV and the reintegration services evaluated their cooperation agreement. The cooperation agreement between the RIZIV and the VDAB dates back to 2012, that of the RIZIV and AWIPH respectively Actiris. Everyone agreed that the agreements work very well and that there is a return on investment when the money from the benefits is spent on route guidance. How many reintegration pathways have already been implemented under the cooperation agreements? Is there a difference between Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels, taking into account that they have been closed at different times? If there's a difference between the Regions, is there an explanation for that? Since everyone is very optimistic and enthusiastic about the agreements, are there any concrete plans to increase the number of reintegration pathways? Are the necessary resources available for this, because these are, of course, funds transferred from the RIZIV to the reintegration services in the three regions? According to the staff of the reintegration services, they can offer a larger number of routes if they receive sufficient resources to do so. Are we thinking of some kind of framework agreement for funding, so that the reintegration services have some insight into this and can we recruit and train staff who can process the larger volume?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u75	On the basis of the expenditure invoiced to the RIZIV by the insurance institutions for the years 2012 and 2013, it can be established that 631 and 1 671 reintegration pathways were paid through the RIZIV respectively. The breakdown by region was made on the basis of the connection of the person concerned with the insurance institutions. For the category of employees there were 50 in Brussels in 2012, 441 in Wallonia and 132 in Flanders. That gives a total of 623. The figures for 2013 are as follows: 117 in Brussels, 483 in Wallonia and 987 in Flanders, a total of 1 587. I will also give you the figures for the self-employed: 8 in 2012 and 84 in 2013. I don't know if that difference is significant; you can get the figures. The difference in expenditure between the regions is due to the fact that in Flanders only the orientation module was invoiced for a large number of dossiers, but not yet the cost of the entire route. The duration of the journey also depends on the personal situation of the beneficiary concerned. The duration and cost of the re-integration project depend to a large extent on the person concerned's disability to work. Moreover, the method of invoicing differs between regions. For example, in Flanders the VDAB has opted for a flat rate, while in Wallonia it is billed per hour of service. This makes it difficult to compare the differences in regional expenditure. On the basis of the amounts charged, it can be established that 920 cases were accompanied by the VDAB. As from 1 January 2015, the Government has decided to make the offer of a reintegration plan compulsory after three months of primary incapacity for work for the persons for whom reintegration into the labour market is possible. The measure will lead to an increase in the number of routes covered by contracts concluded by regional employment offices. It should also be noted that the number of reintegration projects launched both in Flanders and Wallonia exceeds the number initially envisaged in the cooperation agreements. Contacts with both the VDAB, the specialized section guidance (GTB) and the specialized training, guidance and mediation service (GOB) have shown that there is still a certain scope for increasing a number of projects. The RIZIV budget for 2015 provided the necessary resources so that more reintegration files can be financed. In fact, an amount of EUR 15 037 000 was registered for the scheme of employees and EUR 137 000 for the scheme of the self-employed. The RIZIV finances the reintegration projects of individual disabled persons. The services of the GTB and the GOB should provide the necessary staffing framework from the resources made available to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u76	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I am pleased to hear that the agreements in the three regions are well used and lead to more routes than planned. What works well must be further stimulated. The necessary funds will also be provided for 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic062x.u77	I think they will be more than enough.
