ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic085x.u1	Mr President, thank you for your punctuality. I have to go to another committee for some questions, so I appreciate that we can start on time. I will also put a few questions to the Minister in the Defence Committee after ten o'clock. Minister, Copernicus reform dates back some time ago. Then Article 43b was inserted into the language law in administrative matters. Paragraph 7 of that article provides, inter alia, for managers to prove their functional bilinguality at the latest six months after their appointment on the penalty of termination of their mandate. The measure was introduced more than 12 years ago but has still not been implemented. We were unhappy then, because the obligation was limited to functional bilingualism. We still believe that a thorough knowledge of the second language is an absolute requirement at such a level. This opinion is also shared by the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring, which at the time stated that functional bilingualism is actually a step backwards and absolutely not sufficient to perform those functions properly. Even this weakened functional bilingualism appears to be problematic in this country: paragraph 7 has not yet entered into force. At the time, the legislator decided that this should be done by royal decree, established after consultation with the Council of Ministers. There the shoe is pinching: after more than 12 years, that has still not happened. Because it threatened to create a legal vacuum, the King issued a royal decree to extend the old regime on 16 May 2003. The temporary measure would run until the end of 2004, the time deemed necessary to issue a real KB that could give practical effect to functional language skills. That time was also considered necessary to allow all FPSs time to prepare themselves a royal decision to designate the functions that ensure the unity of justice. A draft Royal Decree was completed in May 2003 and was sent to the Permanent Commission for Language Monitoring for advice. We must note that until today that general royal decree was not issued. The transitional measure has already been extended ten times. The latest extension dates from 26 May 2011 and runs until 31 December 2011. After that, no extensions were issued, but the problem has still not been resolved. I will not say that no attempts have been made. There have been several interim attempts to solve the problem. In 2008 and 2009, there was an inter-kabinets working group. The then Minister wanted paragraph 7 of Article 43b to enter into force very quickly. He literally stated: "I wish to bring into force the famous paragraph seven of Article 43b of the language laws for at least two reasons. Firstly, I am convinced that managers should be able to communicate directly with their employees in the language of those employees and, secondly, I assume that a law adopted by the representatives of the people should be implemented. In the meantime, that was seven years ago and it all turned out to be nothing. In the previous government, Secretary of State Bogaert inherited the file. He also stressed that the transition situation would finally be brought to an end. He attempted to do so and in any event refused to extend further the Royal Decree of 16 May 2003, which extended the temporary measure. Eventually he also had to lay his thumbs, because the problem was not solved under him either. My colleague, Annick Ponthier, at the time, was very regular with him about this. It was clear that a solution to the file in the previous government was linked to other dossiers, including language examinations for local authorities in Brussels. That's very disturbing. Even if the issue has been on the agenda for 12 years, it remains a very serious matter. Article 108 of the Constitution states that the King makes the regulations and takes the decisions necessary for the implementation of the laws, without ever being able to suspend them himself or to grant exemption from execution. However, that is exactly what successive governments have been doing for 12 years by refusing to take the necessary measures to enable paragraph 7 of Article 43b to enter into force. So, Minister, I have a whole series of specific questions for you now that you have inherited the file. Firstly, how many officials are currently covered by the provisions of Article 43b (7) of the Language Law in administrative matters, if that article had entered into force? How many Dutch and French-speaking officials are involved? How many Dutch and French-speaking officials covered by the article have proof of an adapted knowledge of the second language which can comply with the provisions of Paragraph 7 of Article 43b? Secondly, how many bilingual assistants have been appointed in accordance with the transitional provisions created by the Royal Decree of 16 May 2003? Thirdly, are the bilingual assistants still in office as a deputy, given that the royal decree of 16 May 2003 was no longer valid? Doesn't there exist a legal vacuum now? Can the unity of justice and the evaluation of officials still be ensured in these circumstances? Fourthly, were managers still appointed after 21 December 2011, when the extended interim measures came to an end? How many have been appointed? What about their language skills? Fifthly, what is your position on functional bilingualism, given the criticism of the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring and also of your party colleagues in the past, namely that functional bilingualism is not enough? Sixthly, do you share the analysis of your fellow Minister in the Flemish Government and fellow party Ben Weyts, who addressed the issue in question during the previous parliamentary term in the Chamber? During the Committee of 7 February 2012, he stated that functional bilingualism already applies, because the law itself anticipates the absence of a royal decree, by providing that, if no decision is issued, the level of linguistic knowledge by definition defines the concept of functional linguistic knowledge. Does it therefore fall back on the level of language knowledge for grade 13 and above? If so, will that be applied? Seventh, how do you feel about a stop to the appointment of managers, as long as that provision has not yet entered into force? That is a justified remark that your party colleague Ben Weyts advocated at the same committee meeting in 2012. Eighth, what measures will the government, and you in particular, as the competent minister, take to effectively address this functional bilingualism? Is the file considered by the government on its own or will the file, as in the previous government, be linked to other files? If that's the case, what other files are we talking about? I would have liked to have gotten a motivation for that. Ninth, when can we finally expect the royal decision after 12 years? When will paragraph 7 of Article 43b of the language legislation finally be put into effect by the government? I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic085x.u2	Thank you for your questions. In any case, it is good that you stress that the long history preceding this is beyond my responsibility. I've only been in charge of the matter since I became a minister. In the federal and programmatic public services, 75 Dutch-speaking and 58 French-speaking mandate holders are currently working. 37 % of Dutch-speaking mandate holders and 26% of French-speaking mandate holders have proof of language skills, in accordance with Article 7 level A or Article 12. At present, the appointments of the mandate holders are covered by the recruitment stop, as decided at the Council of Ministers on 19 December 2014. As regards the appointment of mandate holders after 2011, a total of 74 mandate holders were appointed, 41 Dutch-speaking and 33 French-speaking, of which 39% and 27% respectively have proof of language competence in accordance with Article 7 level A or Article 12. Your concern about the evaluation of officials is unjustified. I can confirm that it must be done in the language of the evaluated person. If the evaluator does not have the same language role or the necessary language documents, he or she may never have interviews alone in the context of an evaluation. The evaluator must then be assisted during these talks by a legally bilingual person, who thus holds a language certificate Article 7, level A or Article 12. The legal bilingual should ensure that the evaluator and the evaluated understand each other well during the evaluation interview and that the report reflects what was agreed. With regard to the transitional measure on the appointment of bilingual assistants in 2003, the Royal Decree has not been renewed since 31 December 2011. There is no record of this anymore. For example, the legal basis for the payment of the annual fee to the bilingual assistants expired. The current situation is and remains artificial. Your last two questions relate to timing, Mrs Pas. I can tell you that the coalition agreement gives me a mandate to introduce functional bilingualism for the mandate holders during this term of office. I think this is important: this functional bilingualism must and will be realised. For me, functional bilingualism is self-evident. For the sake of efficiency, they should be able to communicate directly and intelligibly with all employees. They also need to be able to properly evaluate them. I will therefore faithfully implement the coalition agreement and its provisions. I confirm that there is no link to any other files.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic085x.u3	In November, a month after I submitted my interview, I read in an interview in De Standaard that you are indeed looking for an elegant solution to the problem. You made it clear that the only French speakers in the government also regard bilingualism at the top as a sign. I am partly reassured that the dossier is not linked to other dossiers. It would still be wrong. The laws must be implemented. All the preparations have already been made by predecessors who were also of good will and wanted to amend the legislation. The royal decree is ready. Your timing is this legislature. In this you can be much more ambitious, as all preparations have been made, all internet cabinet groups, all opinions are ready and ready. I'll ask for a state of affairs on a regular basis. With a motion of recommendation, I myself will urge some urgency to support you in your question to the government. In the past, we found that your fellow Members with the same authority were given a great deal of opposition and, despite all good will, they were not able to do so. I am therefore tabling a motion for a recommendation in support of you, so that you can get the KB on functional bilingualism through to your government as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic085x.u4	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of the Minister for Defence, with responsibility for Civil Service, - having regard to Article 43b (7) of the laws on the use of languages in administrative matters, coordinated on 18 July 1966, on the knowledge of the second language for officials to evaluate other officials, on officials to ensure the unity of the case-law and on the language skills of managers; - having regard to the Law of 12 June 2002 amending the laws on the use of languages in administrative matters, coordinated on 18 July 1966, in particular Article 8 thereof, which states that Article 43b (7) of those coordinated laws shall enter into force on the date determined by royal decree after consultation of the Council of Ministers; - whereas there was a risk of a legal vacuum in the absence of the entry into force of Article 43b (7) of the Language Law in administrative matters following the absence of a royal decision adopted after consultation in the Council of Ministers; - having regard to the Royal Decree of 16 May 2003 on the appointment of bilingual alternates as a transitional measure in the central services of the federal administrations, - whereas that Royal Decree provided for a transitional arrangement, limited in time, pending the entry into force of Article 43b (7); - having regard to the Royal Decrees of 1 February 2005, 15 December 2005, 25 February 2007, 7 June 2007, 7 October 2007, 4 March 2008, 28 August 2008, 23 January 2009, 1 October 2009, 17 September 2010 and 26 May 2011 amending the Royal Decree of 16 May 2003 on the designation of bilingual alternates as a transitional measure in the central services of the federal administrations, - having regard to the fact that this transitional measure has been extended to 11 times; - whereas since then no extension of this transitional measure has been issued; - whereas this is likely to create a further legal vacuum; - whereas the preparation of a solution in this dossier in the previous government was linked to the relaxation of language legislation in Brussels, but this is unacceptable to the Flemings and there is absolutely no Community price to be paid for the application of the law; - having regard to Article 108 of the Constitution which states that the King makes the regulations and takes the decisions necessary for the implementation of the laws, without ever being able to suspend the laws themselves or exempt them from their implementation; - whereas the absence of a royal decision adopted after consultation of the Council of Ministers in order to bring into force the abovementioned Article 43b (7) effectively amounts to the suspension of a democratically voted provision of law, asks the government - not appoint top officials or managers as long as Article 43b (7) of the Language Act does not apply in administrative matters; - not to renegotiate this dossier and certainly not to link it to the relaxation of the language law in Brussels or to any other Community sensitive dossier; - to issue the Royal Decree referred to in Article 8 of the Law of 12 June 2002 within the month." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the response of the Minister of Defence, in charge of the Public Service, - having regard to Article 43ter, § 7, of the Laws on the use of languages in administrative matters, coordinated on 18 July 1966, with regard to the knowledge of the second language for officials responsible for evaluating other officials and for officials responsible for ensuring the maintenance of the unit of case law and the linguistic knowledge of managers; - having regard to the Law of 12 June 2002 amending the laws on the use of languages in administrative matters, coordinated on 18 July 1966, and in particular Article 8 of that Law, which provides that Article 43ter, § 7, of these coordinated laws shall enter into force on the date fixed by Royal Decree deliberate in the Council of Ministers; - Whereas a legal vacuum may arise since Article 43ter, § 7, of the laws on the use of languages in administrative matters has not entered into force because of the absence of a deliberate royal decree in the Council of Ministers; - having regard to the Royal Order of 16 May 2003 appointing bilingual assistants as a transitional measure in the central services of the federal public services; - Whereas that royal decree provided for a transitional regime limited in time pending the entry into force of Article 43ter, § 7; - having regard to the Royal Decrees of 1 February 2005, 15 December 2005, 25 February 2007, 7 June 2007, 7 October 2007, 4 March 2008, 28 August 2008, 23 January 2009, 1 October 2009, 17 September 2010 and 26 May 2011 amending the Royal Decree of 16 May 2003 designating bilingual assistants as a transitional measure in the central services of the federal public services; Whereas this transitional measure has thus been extended eleven times; Whereas since then no further extension of this transitional measure has been promulgated; - Whereas a new legal vacuum may thus arise; - Whereas the preparation of a solution in this case has been conditioned by the previous government to a relaxation of language legislation in Brussels, but such a solution is unacceptable to the Flemish people and that the application of the law must in no way be remunerated at Community level; - having regard to article 108 of the Constitution, which provides that the King shall make the regulations and orders necessary for the enforcement of the laws, without ever being able to suspend the laws themselves or exempt them from enforcement; - Whereas the absence of a deliberate royal decree in the Council of Ministers to bring into force Article 43ter, § 7, referred to above is in fact tantamount to suspending a democratically voted provision of the law, asks the government - not to appoint senior officials or managers until Article 43b(7) of the Law on the use of languages in administrative matters has entered into force; - no longer engage in further negotiations on this matter and in any event no longer make it conditional on a relaxation of language legislation in Brussels or on any other sensitive issue at Community level; - to promulgate within one month the royal decree referred to in Article 8 of the Law of 12 June 2002." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Koen Metsu. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koen Metsu. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic085x.u5	Mr President, Minister, in 2012 your predecessor took an important step towards a true reflection of society in terms of the participation of women in the government and our political system. He noted at that time that 16% of managers were women in the federal government, while at a certain point 25 % of women had succeeded but only 15% were appointed. That made him decide that there was a glass ceiling in the federal government. We see enormous progress in the Federal Parliament, 40% of women. The coalition agreement also states that the federal government is committed to sustained efforts in this area. We also ask listed companies to commit to fixed quotas. We have also recently been able to see in a media report in De Standaard that people are doing well in this area. Indeed, a study shows that listed companies are evolving towards more women on the board of directors. Your predecessor has also appointed six women to the 15 top nominations he has made. Despite these positive elements, we must also note that there is a glass ceiling on the cabinets, because of the heads of the cabinet at the time there were only two women and they were still appointed by women ministers. Recently, the European Commission Commissioner responsible for Civil Service stated that she wants to move towards 40% women at the top of the European Commission. So there is clearly a trend in our society. This is also the reason for my question. The evolution we are seeing is twofold: on the one hand, steps forward, on the other hand, many points of interest. Firstly, what evolution does the Minister expect regarding the implementation of top positions in the government by women? Secondly, what measures can we expect in this respect to meet the commitment you have expressed, both in your policy statement and in the coalition agreement? Thirdly, what is the time frame within which this Parliament can observe your first steps to shape this commitment?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic085x.u6	Ms Van Hoof, the Royal Decree of 2 June 2012 amending the Royal Decree of 2 October 1937 on the status of state staff introduces a quota. For the terms of office, both "N' and "N' and "M', as well as for "M', "A', "A', "A' and "A', "A', "A', "A', "A' and "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A' and "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A' and "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A' and "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A' and "A', "A', "A' and "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A', "A' Both the coalition agreement and my policy paper indicate that the quota will be maintained and realized. With regard to the evolution of the implementation of top functions, I can tell you the following. Since June 2012, 36 appointments have been made in mandate positions, of which 15 are women, or 42%. This brings the total number of female mandate holders to 24%, while in 2007 it was only 16%. In the middle frame, degrees A3, A4 and A5 are 32%, while in 2007 it was only 23%. On the basis of the overall figures, I can therefore say that for the middle framework the objective has been almost achieved. For the top functions there is an evolution towards the goal. A number of measures are also being taken in connection with recruitment and selection. For example, there is Top Skills, a project to encourage more women to apply for management positions. There is also an adapted standard CV for management functions which equates the valorisation of part-time experience with full-time experience. In view of the evolution of recent years and the initiatives taken, I expect the current trend to continue so that the target set is achieved effectively. However, if you have any recommendations, I should like to hear them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic085x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for the clear answer and the confirmation of the commitment from the Central Bank. Indeed, we note that today we have already reached 24% instead of 16% in the past. In the middle framework, a third has even been achieved. There are recommendations on this subject particularly in the Scandinavian countries where women are very consciously guided to top names. They are recruited in advance and made clear that it is their chance to qualify. The guidance is very conscious in the Scandinavian countries, they are far beyond us. However, I welcome the fact that you have the Top Skills project, which probably includes some of it. I'm sure you'll have to do that very consciously. It is a pity, however, that those who have to set an example, namely the Cabinets, do not succeed. A recommendation on this could be to work on it as well. A European Commissioner I cannot come under the name of an Eastern European country has also stated that it wants to evolve to 40%. You might want to look at how she's handling things.
