ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u1	Minister, following Operation Triangle conducted by Europol's Cybercrime Centre in early June, 58 searches were carried out and 49 arrests took place. It is the results of the extensive police action that led to the arrest of criminals from Cameroon, Nigeria and Spain, as part of the fight against phishing. Thanks to stolen personal data, criminals intercepted communications allowing them to hijack some six million euros, notably from medium-sized and large European companies, through a sophisticated money laundering network. The dismantling of the criminal network was the result of coordinated action between Europol and Eurojust, as well as the police services in Italy, Spain, Poland and the United Kingdom. In particular, the operation was supported by the Belgian, English and Georgian police, and once again demonstrates the importance of broad cooperation in such cases. Finally, I shall quote a somewhat disturbing figure. Indeed, I quote one of the observations made by IBM in the 2015 edition of its Cyber Security Intelligence Index: "Phishing is not experiencing the crisis since the rate of spam trapped compared to all unsolicited commercial emails is 4% at the beginning of 2015, when it had never exceeded 1% until the summer of 2013". Mr Minister, this operation has demonstrated that European institutions and national authorities can successfully combat one of the most difficult forms of modern crime to detect. Can you tell us how this coordination took place between the various actors? What was put in place for this operation and not previously? The results of this operation are positive. Do you think that this type of initiative should be extended? The number of spams trapped is exploding. What are the concrete measures put in place by the government to deal with this sharp increase? What measures are being taken at European level? And what is the coordination at this level between the federal authorities and the European institutions? Finally, I would also like to address the issue from the perspective of the risk that cybercrime poses to businesses. It would seem that many companies do not know where to go to report a cyber incident. They would also not have sufficient information on the legal framework and would need assistance in developing a security policy and processes. Companies need a proper and concrete framework in this area. Minister, what measures have been taken in this context and which could still be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u2	Mrs Schepmans, the Federal Prosecutor's Office has given me the following information. As far as your first two questions are concerned, it was only indirectly that Belgium was involved in Operation Triangle, under which the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, on an ad hoc basis, facilitated a request for mutual legal assistance from Italy to various Belgian prosecutors' offices, as well as a European arrest warrant which was sent to the Courtrai Public Prosecutor's Office for execution. A cross-border approach to phishing, or more generally to computer crime, between the various countries concerned, with the support of Eurojust and Europol, makes it possible to destabilise organised crime groups more radically and to disrupt criminal activities in the longer term. The Federal Public Prosecutor's Office is involved in this struggle to the extent of the means available. A recent example is Operation Blackshades, where, in May 2014, searches and arrests were carried out simultaneously in 15 countries, including no fewer than 70 searches in our country alone. This operation focused on the hacker tool Blackshades which was marketed worldwide via the Internet. The criminal organization's servers were seized in the United States and the organizers intercepted. In Belgium, in the meantime, prosecutions have been brought against buyers of this tool and a user of this malware package has been sentenced to 15 months' imprisonment. Another example of close collaboration with Eurojust's support is the federal case known as Operation Belfi. A joint Belgian-Dutch investigation team arrested a person suspected of being at the sum of an organisation responsible for phishing from the Netherlands to the detriment of the clients of four large Belgian banks. From mid-2012 to February 2014, the organisation raised a loot of around €7.2 million. After the intervention, phishing figures fell by 85%. The criminal trial is under way. Your last two questions go beyond the realm of justice. This problem of cybercrime requires a broader approach. Security and cybersecurity prevention are at least as important to combat it. The Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium, created by the Royal Decree of 10 October 2014, under the authority of the Prime Minister, is in particular responsible for supervising, coordinating and ensuring the implementation of the Belgian strategy in this field, ensuring coordination between the services and authorities concerned and crisis management in the event of a cyber incident.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u3	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u4	Mr President, Minister, the League for Human Rights has made a request that an investigation be opened following the attack on Verviers, which led to the death of two persons suspected of committing a terrorist attack. The League did not question the operation, but it wanted clarification of its modus operandi. His concern is based on the testimony of a survivor who claims that no warning was given prior to the intervention of the law enforcement agencies, including the GIGN. My question does not tend to prejudge the conclusions of the possible investigation. However, "if death is not considered to be inflicted in violation of Article 2 of the European Convention on Human Rights, in cases where it results from the use of force absolutely necessary to defend everyone against unlawful violence", we cannot ignore that "any use of force must be reasonable and proportionate to the objective pursued". This is clear from the Police Function Act. That's what's at stake in this case. However, the terrorist threat cannot justify any reversal of these principles. Nor can it legitimize the lethal use of weapons on the basis of presumptions without due process. Minister, could you remind us of the rules that mark the use of weapons in similar assaults, a fortiori deadly assaults? Is Summation still mandatory? Is the lethal use of weapons marked differently depending on whether the intervention is based on suspicions of terrorist or terrorist-related acts or on serious indications of terrorist or terrorist-related acts, knowing that in both cases the persons concerned are still presumed innocent?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u5	Mrs Özen, it should be pointed out that the use of firearms in the operation in Verviers is currently under judicial investigation. So I can't comment on it. The rules that mark the use of coercion by police officers are reflected in the Police Function Act of 5 August 1992 and are identical, regardless of the framework for intervention, including terrorism or major banditry. Article 1, paragraph 3, of the Act stipulates that "in order to carry out their duties, the police services shall use the means of coercion only under the conditions laid down by law." As a means of coercion, the use of firearms is subject to compliance with article 37 of the Act, which states: "In the performance of its administrative or judicial police duties, any police officer may, taking into account the risks involved, use force to pursue a legitimate objective which cannot be achieved otherwise. Any use of force must be reasonable and proportionate to the objective pursued. Any use of force shall be preceded by a warning unless it renders such use inoperative." In addition to the principles of legality, subsidiarity and proportionality, article 38 of the Act also provides for cases in which police officers may use firearms against persons. This article states that: "Unless in self-defence, the use of weapons shall be effected only after a warning given aloud or by any other means available, including by means of a warning, unless it renders such a remedy ineffective." Finally, articles 49 and 50 of the Code of Ethics of the Police Service, enshrined in the Royal Decree of 10 May 2006, recall these principles and specify, inter alia, that police officers must seek the least violent means of intervention and that a certain degree of differentiation and gradation must exist in the procedures for the use of force and that they must receive appropriate physical and mental training and adequate equipment in this regard. The use of weapons is therefore marked with great precision. From a strictly operational point of view, the use of coercion in general and of weapons in particular is obviously on the basis of the information available and, on the other hand, of an inconclusive assessment in accordance with Articles 37 and 38 above.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u6	Minister, thank you for your very precise answer, as well as for the rules that mark the use of weapons. They are very clear and unambiguous. My fear was that the presumption of innocence would be flouted in the special and dangerous context that we know, especially with level 3 alert. As far as the attack on Verviers is concerned, the investigation will provide us with the answers and I hope to prove to us the validity of this approach and compliance with the relevant rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u7	Minister, can you stay until 5:00 p.m.? We will allow Mr Hellings to ask his question, and then we will suspend. After going to plenary, do you agree to come back here in such a way as to empty as many questions as possible today? I assume that the "HIV" proposal will be dealt with quickly. [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u8	Deputy Prime Minister, Belgium has not yet ratified the Optional Protocol to the United Nations Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (OPCAT). The Convention was ratified by 157 countries and entered into force in June 2006. In particular, it provides for a system of regular visits by independent national or international bodies, including prisons. This non-ratification raises questions. According to Amnesty International, this means that there is no international monitoring mechanism in Belgium to prevent torture and ill-treatment in places of deprivation of liberty. Deputy Prime Minister, in January 2016, Belgium will have to report on its commitments to respect fundamental rights to the UN Human Rights Council. Will you, by this important deadline, do all you can to ensure that the OPCAT is ratified?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u9	Mr Hellings, people who are deprived of their liberty are in a vulnerable position simply because of their imprisonment. Because of this vulnerable position, independent monitoring of places where people are deprived of their liberty is of great importance. In direct connection with the objective of establishing an independent national human rights mechanism for our country and, as far as our prisoners are concerned, with the plan to improve, inter alia, the independence of the Central Prison Supervisory Board and prison monitoring commissions, the Government Agreement refers to the project to establish an independent national human rights mechanism. I have already explained to the Committee on Justice how this challenge will be met and I therefore refer to my reply to this committee on 6 May 2015, which is still valid. At the end of October 2015, our country will have to submit a report in the framework of the Universal Periodic Review of the UN Human Rights Council. The objective is that, by then, significant progress can be reported in the form of a first political consensus. The monitoring of places where people are deprived of their liberty, as is also provided for in OPCAT, goes beyond the context of our prisons and internees. The question of when the OPCAT protocol will be ratified therefore does not depend solely on the federal level. However, we hope to learn more about the intentions of the federated entities before the end of October, as part of our report for the Universal Periodic Review. With regard to closed centres, the issue is being discussed in the office of Secretary of State Theo Francken in the context of inter-cabinet discussions. This state of play and the timetable were fully transparently explained to civil society at a meeting on 12 June 2015. Amnesty International was also present at this consultation with civil society and seemed to be able to find its way into the proposed timetable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u10	I thank the minister for his response. If I understand correctly, there are two blocking elements. Within the government, you have to consult with your colleague Franken on closed centres. I hope that there will be a strong dialogue. You also pointed out that the federated entities also block because it is a shared jurisdiction. I don't see what level, perhaps for the houses of justice, but they're not lock-up centres. Obviously, we must reach agreement as soon as possible. Beyond what you can initiate at Belgian level, namely the establishment of the Central Prison Supervision Council, it will be very important for Belgium to be able to ratify OPCAT as soon as possible, as a sign of goodwill, at the risk of being once again condemned by the UN Human Rights Council. This would be regrettable in terms of image, but especially for the situation of people locked up in Belgium, whether in prison or in closed centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u11	Mr President, Minister, the prisons we know are often overcrowded and the process of re-integration is flawless. Those who see something other than a vacuum-free separation communicate with the public and life, regularly review the role of the prison and the individual supervision it requires to work towards reintegration. I am one of them, and in that I encourage the projects of detention centres. One of the aims of these houses is to be able to accompany individual prisoners who find themselves there in a small number, about ten. Also, do not relocate them or deprive them of any contact with society. On the contrary, with these houses, infrastructure sharing is encouraged with the neighbourhood, such as sports grounds. The inmate is no longer dehumanized, he doesn't just have a name or even a number. It should be stressed that these prisons do not constitute a financial burden for the State. Hans Claus, who is one of the promoters of this project, estimates the daily cost to 203 euros, although of course they are long-term. Changing the vision and care of our inmates would effectively combat recidivism. The figures in other European states where these structures exist show this. This would also make it possible to empower and offer our inmates a greater chance of re-integration as a result of their time in prison. In addition, it would provide much more humane and dignified places of detention for our society. Minister, aren't individualized accompaniments conducive to the reintegration process? Are detention centres not more suitable than our current prisons for this purpose? Could human-sized structures constituted by these detention centres be considered in the long term? Could these structures not at least be considered at the end of the sentence in order to facilitate reintegration? Or as a means of differentiating the execution of the sentence? Does your plan envisage a pilot project of this type of detention facility?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u12	Minister, you announced this weekend that you are in favour of setting up prison houses. It is a solution that seems attractive for better support of inmates and perhaps to finally achieve positive results in relation to recidivism. The possibility of introducing in the plan of prison houses is a new fact which satisfies me particularly. It obviously calls for a broader reflection on the problem of prisons. No later than this morning, Mr. Brotcorne referred to him in a discussion that will take place at the beginning of the year. You have indicated that for this project to succeed, collaborations with non-profit organizations are required. What are you doing in your possible discussions with non-profit organizations? To what type of non-profit organization did you turn? Currently, how many prisons exist on Belgian territory? How do you intend to include in the masterplan Let's put this rather innovative proposal of prison houses?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u13	Minister, in December and March I also asked you about the possible introduction of small-scale detention homes. This is an idea that has already been launched under the heading "The Houses'. One would work with 900 smaller house prisons where inmates would be supervised more customised and where they would be individually prepared for their return to society. This is, of course, much more difficult in large prisons. You stated in your reply that you were indeed open to an appropriate form of detention. But, in addition to this project, the Houses are said to have other organisations with similar initiatives, such as transition homes. You also said you didn't want to take your point of view on mini-prisons because this summer, and the temperatures are beginning to notice it's summer, with a modified Master Plan 3 for the prisons. Apparently, in the meantime, you've formed an opinion on mini-prisons. Through the media, we were told that you want to introduce it effectively, first as a pilot project and then, if they were successful, also in general. Hence my questions, Minister. Can you provide more information on your intention to work with mini-prisons? What concept will work? How many mini-prisons are you thinking of? What budget will be needed for this? Is there cooperation with the Communities in this respect? When do you think you can start the pilot project? How many mini-prisons will it include? Are you working out your own system of mini-prisons or will public support be given to well-known initiatives such as "The Houses" or the system of transition houses? When will you present your Master Plan 3 to the Council of Ministers and to Parliament? I heard yesterday on the committee that it would be before September, or before the autumn? Perhaps you could mention a specific date? Finally, what changes will be included in your Master Plan 3? What impact does your intention to sustain the prison population among 10 000 inmates on your Master Plan 3? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u14	Mr President, Mrs Özen, mevrouw De Wit, I am naturally aware of Mr Klaps' project to which you are referring. An informal meeting had already taken place to hear his idea and proposal. A number of other organizations are also involved in similar initiatives and have also explained their plans. These were exploratory discussions to find inspiration. Once a decision is made, a mission will be launched, to which all interested parties will be able to register. I am certainly open to other forms of detention. I can only welcome projects or initiatives that can facilitate reintegration into society, because they ultimately benefit inmates and society as a whole. I therefore see this especially for prisoners who, for example, can be accommodated there at the end of their sentence, with the aim of being better prepared for a return to society. But I don't see any contradiction with the Haren project. Other institutions will remain necessary and there will be only a small minority who may be eligible to stay in such a house. We are currently busy finalizing a new adapted masterplan 3. I would also like to refer to my Justice Plan under point IV.1.4 "Modernisation of prison infrastructure", in which I explain that the existing masterplan is adapted to submit for approval a new masterplan 3. The principle has yet to be approved. For example, in Haren, we are already planning housing with an open regime for women. It will therefore only be at the time when the Master Plan is finally approved that the details of all the projects, including this project, will be communicated in terms of both timing, budget and procedure. But I think I've already made it clear which direction I'd like to go. I will make a proposal to the government, together with Mr Jambon, to launch a pilot project on small-scale detention. Once this is evaluated positively, additional projects may be envisaged if necessary. As far as the other projects of the Master Plan 3 are concerned, I will be able to give you more information very soon. I am currently finishing the dossier together with Mr Jambon, who is responsible for the Directorate of Buildings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u15	Minister, I am pleased to hear that reintegration into detention is also one of your priorities. It is true that this reintegration requires, in particular, the transposition as much as possible into a normal life, with contacts with society, opportunities for training, empowerment, etc. With regard to detention homes, mini-houses or transit houses, I read an article that appeared after the writing of my question, where your spokesman said that they would be transit houses that could be made available to people who, after a selection at the end of the sentence or under electronic supervision, could stay to prepare for their reintegration. I think it could in any case adequately meet that objective, which I have summarized to you. So I am delighted to see that the government is focusing on the issue that is really important, as you said, for both inmates and society.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u16	A society honors itself to be able to debate this type of problem. In particular, the Government's declaration provides for a partial review and appraisal of the law of principle and an open reflection on the problem of prisons, recidivism and how detention should be conducted, which is obviously a good idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We will have to wait for the specific information. I look forward to that. It's something that's been going on for a while. We have long been raising awareness of a different approach. I certainly think that if you want to achieve the reintegration and the handling of recidivism, as is also stated in your Justice Plan, this could be a means of doing so. I hope you will also find the budgetary means to make that happen. I think there is another important step to be taken. But I look forward to the information you promise around the Master Plan 3. Dank u.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u18	Mr President, Minister, we recently learned of the Belgian State's condemnation of the suicide of a young boy suffering from mental illness and depression. He hanged himself in an isolation cell, behind a fence and an armored door in Lantin. This young man had learned that his transfer to the Paifve social defence institution had to take between 6 months and 3 years, which he could not bear, making him unmanageable to hysterical. Hence the disciplinary regime which had been applied to him with authority. He had suffered from schizophrenia and despite the decision of the Social Defence Commission, he had been placed in a cell in Lantin, a situation which was totally inadequate for his mental situation. For reasons: a "waiting list" of some 40 inmates. The court found that the Ministry of Justice had failed to comply with the Human Rights Convention and the Social Defence Act because of its structural shortcomings. This decision is probably a relief for the family that has been heard but remains unbearable in a rule of law like ours. Minister, could you tell us how many prisoners are still in prison, awaiting a transfer to the institution determined by the Social Defence Commission? In the meantime, are adequate care provided in prison for those persons who have a specific problem? How can we overcome the "structural flaws" highlighted by the court so that the requirement of the social defence law is no longer dead letter? What means do you have to achieve this goal? How long will it be possible to compensate for the pointed deficit? Is the waiting list still long or is it being resolved?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u19	Mr President, Mrs Özen, unfortunately the problem of internment is not new. This matter has been neglected for a very long time with the result we know. This conviction for acts dating back more than five years is an illustration of this. I think, however, that the last few years have shown a real willingness to take up the problem at arm-to-body level, but we need patience. We cannot solve this problem in a few months. From a numerical point of view, here are the data to date: - Psychiatric annex: Flanders (142), Wallonia (94), Brussels (104), for a total of 340; - Social Defence Section (EDS): Bruges (31), Merksplas (243), Turnhout (108), for a total of 382; - Paifve EDS (200); - Total for public institutions for integration (EPI): 922. This figure shows a significant decrease from 2014. At the end of June 2014, there were 1,081 internees. For Francophone internees, the waiting list for the Paifve ESD today includes 62 internees deprived of their liberty. The oldest placement decision was dated 30 June 2013. The waiting list for the Tournai ESD - The Marronniers - included, in early June, 94 internees deprived of their liberty. The oldest investment order was dated February 20, 2014. For the women of the EDS of Mons (the Oak of the Haies), this list is 8 internees and the oldest placement decision is dated 11 September 2014. For Dutch-speaking internees, there is no formal waiting list for placement since the social defence sections are in prison. The Social Defence Commissions therefore formulate their decisions in another way: keeping in prison pending external care. With the opening of the Ghent FPC, this reality will nevertheless change. Pending the execution of a placement decision, the psychosocial service of the institution provides psychosocial support to the internees in the preparation of a reintegration project and the drafting of multidisciplinary opinions to the social defence commissions. Several reintegration projects in the form of trial release are therefore also implemented at the outset of these annexes and before placement measures are carried out. Collaborations with community-dependent intramural support services are also very valuable at this level. In my justice plan, I made it clear that internees have no place in prison. They must be accommodated and cared for in legal psychiatry centres and appropriate care institutions. 2014 and 2015 are pivotal years of internment through various initiatives including the construction of legal psychiatry centres in Ghent and Antwerp, the development of an integrated care circuit and improvement projects in prisons. These areas of work contribute, on the one hand, to the provision of care and to a psychopathological diet of internees and, on the other hand, to a faster orientation of prisons towards internal care channels. The establishment of a care system integrating the various outpatient and residential care services is an absolute necessity, especially since several departments are competent in this field. Several actions are being taken and efforts must be continued. The designation of co-ordinators of internee care channels within the Justice FPS and co-ordinators of internee care routes by the Public Health FPS illustrates this positive dynamic in cross-sectoral collaborations. These coordinators are working together on a structural basis to establish the state of the resources and gaps identified in the networks, to develop the work of the care channels for the integrated approach to this problem, to support the creation, since January 2014, of mobile teams to strengthen, through liaison between the intra- and extra-penitentiary, the prospects for the reintegration of internees. The new law on internment of 5 May 2014 will also improve the legal status of internees and the internment procedure. It will come into force in early 2016 after an amendment to be made before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your extremely detailed answer and for all the information that has been provided and that I will take the time to analyse. With regard to the case law I referred to in my question, of course, it is a relief for the family, but it must really remain an isolated case, in any case, a mistake not to be repeated. Like everyone else, I am concerned about the structural shortcomings that are at the root of this tragedy, but I am also pleased to hear that the figure is decreasing and that there is also a willingness to put these people in structures adapted to their problems and that every effort will be made to meet the needs of the people specifically targeted by the Social Defence Committee within a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u21	Colleagues, after this little interruption, we resume our work. Minister, thank you for staying. It is also a way of respecting the many questions that you and your services have answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u22	Mr President, Minister, to read that the employees of the Labour Court are subject to a very unstable working regime is a nonsense! Through a trade union of the judicial organization, many of them denounce their precarious contractual situation. Mostly, they are engaged on the basis of a fixed-term contract of employment, renewed in extremis, through very short-term amendments. So, sometimes only from month to month! For some, this precariousness has been going on for two years. This is a situation of obvious stress which probably hinders legitimate life projects, such as the possibility of contracting a loan, for example, in the context of the purchase of a dwelling. It also appears that the practice is not isolated. Members of the administrative staff of the Court of First Instance of Liège allegedly suffered from a similar regime. Minister, the shortage of staff in our jurisdictions is commonly recognized. When do you intend to put an end to this situation and offer indefinite contracts or, at least and if it is really necessary, long-term fixed-term contracts? How do you justify non-compliance with the basic rules of labour law in the Labour Court? How can it be justified for private and costly companies to be engaged for other services to render to Justice, when internal collaborators, on the other hand, have to settle for a contract which may be approved each month, as the initial term approaches? Finally, does this practice have an objective justification not yet revealed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u23	Mr President, Mrs Özen, I would like first of all to point out that Article 178 of the Judicial Code authorizes the Minister of Justice, for specific reasons and with a view to ensuring the continuity of services, to hire staff under a contract of employment. Contractual employment in the judiciary remains the exception, as in the public service in the broad sense. I can assure you that since my appointment as Minister of Justice, I have kept on ensuring this continuity of service within the judicial system, as well as avoiding dismissal, notwithstanding the remediation objectives that are imposed on me and on my colleagues in the government. I am indeed trying to combine these two constraints in the most effective way possible. Budgetary constraints, however, require some flexibility in human resources management. As for the call for a private firm to supervise the Brussels courthouse during the month of June, it made it possible, in a very short period of time, to ensure the safety of the building pending the recruitment of the necessary personnel to the security corps. This was an ad hoc measure justified by a crisis situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u24	Minister, thank you. The situation is paradoxical in that it is the employees of the Labour Court who see their working conditions not respected. Some would say they're the worst shoemakers. A serious joke is that in our country, we must ensure important social regulation for workers who are often at the heart of the debate. I sincerely hope that their situation will be settled as soon as possible and that they will be able to benefit from contracts other than spontaneous contracts, as you say.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u25	Minister, in recent years, the contributions to the Victims' Fund have been increased several times, from EUR 55 over EUR 137.50 to EUR 150, in order to avoid deficits in the Fund. In the meantime, it appears that an opposite effect was achieved with the increase. Year after year, there are still large surpluses in the fund. Answers to written questions on this point show that, for example, in 2008 almost EUR 8 million in surpluses were recorded and EUR 6.4 million in 2011. In my view, therefore, the question arises as to whether this should not be reviewed and, if necessary, reformed. For people who, for example, are convicted by the police judge and sometimes have to pay twice the amount of EUR 150, this is a huge financial burden that comes with the fine and often makes the bill very high. Sometimes police judges take this into account and issue a fine below EUR 26, in order not to have to impose the EUR 150. Is a reform on the agenda? If so, in what sense? Is it an option to review the fixed contribution or to exclude it in certain cases, for example in the case of very minor traffic offences? On the other hand, in terms of expenditure, the compensation paid today is up to EUR 62 000 for victims of intentional crime. Should this be increased if necessary? On my question of the origin of the revenue, i.e. the division by type of court in which the conviction was pronounced, and the purpose of the expenditure broken down by the type of crime the victims of which were the victims, there was no answer at the time. The files are sent directly from the Court Registry to the FPS Finance Office for recovery, still on paper. There would be no central database of established rights, from which statistics could be drawn. Mr Minister, first of all, how much revenue and expenditure have been achieved in recent years, in 2013 and 2014? Can a detail be given? Secondly, is the reform of the fund on the agenda or not? What is your response to the proposals I just made? Thirdly, can initiatives be considered to improve the understanding of the source of revenue and the destination of expenditure?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u26	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, in 2012, EUR 17.09 million, EUR 24.2 million in 2013 and EUR 26.28 million in 2014. There have been 1 243, 1 202 and 1 273 petitions in the last three years respectively. In 2012, 1 384 decisions were taken and in 2013 and 2014 there were 1 203 and 1 265, respectively. Of these, 961 were positive in 2012, 804 in 2013 and 895 in 2014. Expenditure in 2012 amounted to 9.51 million euros and expenditure in 2013 and 2014 was 7.99 million euros and 9.29 million euros respectively. I have asked the Committee on Financial Aid to victims of deliberate acts and to the occasional rescuers, hereinafter referred to as the Committee, to make a number of proposals for amending the Law of 1 August 1985 on Tax and other provisions concerning State aid to victims of intentional acts of violence and to occasional rescuers. I have recently received these proposals and, among other things, it has been proposed to double the legal ceiling of EUR 62 000 for main aid and additional aid. In addition, it is proposed that the category of victims provided for in Article 31.3 of the Act should be expanded in a sensitive manner. Parents and persons providing for the maintenance of a minor victim of a deliberate act of violence constitute a new category of beneficiaries of financial assistance since the Law of 26 March 2003. However, other family members or persons living under one roof are also confronted with the consequences of an act of violence committed on a family member or on a person with whom they live. One thinks of the husband whose wife was severely abused without her dying. The spouse may also, in his own name, obtain compensation from the court for the suffering caused by the facts which have occurred to his wife. It is therefore fair to allow those who are directly victims to apply to the committee for financial aid. It is also proposed to add a number of claims items to the exhaustive list in Article 32. An extension of eligible crimes is not envisaged. The 1985 Act makes use of the concept of "intentional acts of violence," which covers all forms of intentional violence. For example, sexual violence, such as rape or sexual assault of dignity, is eligible for financial aid. By using a conceptual definition, new criminal acts of violence are automatically eligible, without the need to change the law every time. When the mutilation of the genitals of a person of the female sex, Article 409 of the Criminal Code, was punishable, it was not necessary to amend the 1985 law because the new criminalisation, of which the offender is not known, has been eligible for financial assistance for a very long time. There is no indication of the origin of the revenue. This question is for my colleague, the Minister of Finance. As far as expenditure is concerned, a project has been launched to process the nature of the crimes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u27	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your detailed reply. I'll analyze the numbers. I would also like to hear that there have been proposals for reform. We often have to explain to those who have been convicted what the fund means and why they have to pay the EUR 150. Today, this is not entirely true because, on the one hand, we are paying for the victims, but, on the other hand, we are paying for a large pot. I therefore welcome proposals which will help to ensure that what is paid by the condemned for the victims also belongs to the victims. I will follow the further evolution of this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u28	Minister, a few months ago, in January, I asked you a question about the temporary ban on housekeeping in the case of domestic violence, which can be imposed by the prosecutor on a adult whose presence constitutes a serious and immediate danger to the other roommates. I've been able to pass that law here in this house. The intention of the law was and is to better deal with crisis situations, where there is a real danger to the roommates, by taking the person responsible for this out of the house through the parquet and thus demining things. When I asked a written question about the number of times that law had been applied in the meantime, I was a little disappointed with the answer. In the period from January 2013 to June 2014, the procedure had only been used 47 times. Some of the arrondissements were divided by arrondissement, and the procedure was barely in place. That's where she was barely used. Other arrondissements mentioned that they had used that procedure up to 20 times. You told me in January that there were several possible causes, if the figures were correct. The first possibility you mentioned was the procedure. Maybe the procedure is too heavy. A second point was the police services, which must now quickly assess the security risk and the opportunity to advise the prosecutor on such a measure. The third item you mentioned was the not immediately available means and framework for the assistance of the victims for measures against the offender and for monitoring compliance with the home and contact ban. That is why you said in January that you would ask the College of Attorneys General to review the law and the directive in order to clarify the causes of the limited application in some cases. I would like to ask the following questions here today, six months later. Has that evaluation taken place in the meantime? If so, what are the results? In the meantime, can you give more recent figures? I had received the figures until June 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u29	Minister, the law adopted on 15 June 2012 punishes the violation of a temporary house ban with a prison sentence of 8 days to 6 months and/or a fine of 26 to 100 euros. However, Article 2 of the Law states that only a punishment of a restraining order can be imposed by the King's Attorney. Therefore, according to current legislation, no punishment is possible if the restraining order is confirmed or extended by the judge notified by the prosecutor in the proceedings. In the latter case, a violation of the temporary house ban can only be contained if the victim himself is prepared to file a complaint for ringing. I therefore have the following questions, Minister. How can, in your view, a violation of a temporary restraining order imposed by the family judge be punished? Should the law of 15 June 2012 be amended? In what way?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u30	Mr President, I will begin with Mrs Lahaye-Battheu's second question. Recently, I was given figures for the years 2013 and 2014, which indeed show that the application has remained rather limited. For the two years together, there are only 65 files. The practice has been applied occasionally in some arrondissements, in particular Tournai, Antwerp and Kortrijk, with 26, 10 and 9 measures respectively, while in other arrondissements hardly any use was made of the instrument. The statistical analysts of the Public Prosecutor's Office suggested that the coding directives were not always followed closely. This should also be considered in the context of further computerisation. The bans are, however, currently registered in a separate module in the computer system of the parquets of first instance, the court of first instance. However, the qualitative evaluation has not yet been carried out. The College of Attorneys General is already highly questioned and has a limited capacity for advice and evaluation. In addition, the imposition of a house and contact ban is a practice in full evolution. It is important that the intervention police have a good tool to correctly assess the risks of the situation. Such a risk assessment tool is now being developed on behalf of Mr Elke Sleurs, responsible for equal opportunities policy, and is already partly available, but for partner violence, not yet for honor-based violence. The application of the ban should also be considered in the light of the functioning of the newly established family courts, which have taken over the initial task of the peace court. So perhaps it is only now that we can start the evaluation and see how we can pursue an improved application. However, I reiterated the need for a thorough evaluation of the instrument on a study day by the Thomas Moore Institute on instruments to combat intra-family violence. The evaluation assignment is on the agenda of the next meeting with the College of Attorneys General next Monday. As regards Mrs Van Vaerenbergh's question, the criminalisation of the violation of the house ban was introduced by the separate law of 15 June 2015. It confines itself to the violation of the restraining order imposed by the King's Attorney's Office and does not extend to the stage of extension ruled by the family court where the case was brought. At that stage, the victim will therefore have to file a complaint for ringing in the event of a violation of the house or contact ban. However, the philosophy of the measure was that the family judge would take the necessary measures by civil means to settle temporarily or definitively the disturbed situation which is in any case in the event of violence. The extension of the house ban was seen rather as an exception. The extension of the criminalisation is therefore one of the pistes to be investigated in addition to a more efficient civil handling or sanctioning. This problem will certainly emerge in the review of the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u31	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply on this item, which will be followed up. The evaluation has yet to be carried out. I'll follow that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u32	I would also like to thank the Minister, and I hope that it will be possible in future to better record these figures. After all, it is very important to evaluate legislation. Therefore, if they cannot be detected in an accurate way, it will be very difficult to see what is needed to make the legislation applicable in practice. The objective in this is, of course, good, but it should also be possible to check.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u33	Minister, in the meantime there have been extensive renovation and expansion works in progress in Ypres prison for ten years. There is work on peripheral accommodation: a visitor's room, a library, classrooms, a gym. The new kitchen will also be equipped to prepare 200 meals at once. The fact is that the prison still has only 48 cells in which there are currently two prisoners. So there's an average of 90 to 100 inmates in the cells. The edge accommodation is equipped with 200 inmates. The commissioning of the new building will require additional staff, as the area within which the prisoners can move will triple. Minister, will there be any possibility of increasing the number of cells in the future? Technically, as the stability study shows, it would be possible to build at the back of the building, the so-called section 3, floors, good for 60 cells. The edge accommodation will soon be put into service. Additional staff would be needed for this. What about the profitability? What is the state of play in the actualization and adjustment of the Master Plan 3? Is the construction of additional cells in Ypres prison possible according to this plan? Or could this still be considered?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u34	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, there will soon be a new modified Master Plan 3 that we are currently preparing. I also refer to the Justice Plan under point 4, I, 4, modernisation of penitentiary infrastructure, where I have clarified that the existing master plan will be amended until a new Master Plan 3 is submitted for approval at a forthcoming meeting of the Council of Ministers. One of the projects under discussion is the possible expansion of Ypres prison. It will be only after the launch and approval of the plan that details of possible projects can be communicated within this plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u36	Mr President, Minister, the fight against cybercrime is one of the government's priorities. Interpol recently established a Global Complex for Innovation, IGCI. This is a new centre in Singapore, in cooperation between public and private players, to ensure technological innovation and also greater efficiency. Thanks to the collaboration with Kaspersky Lab, Trend Micro and Microsoft, the organisation wants to ensure that the police can use new technology to outsmart cyber criminals. The IGCI is equipped with a forensic lab with a bunker for research into smartphones. In addition, there is highly sophisticated equipment in the complex to investigate cyber threats. Police training can be provided, specifically to investigate crimes on the Internet. In this way, police officers can also be better involved in the world of criminals. That world is quite special, because many of the criminal internet activities take place on the so-called darknet or deep web. Guns and drugs can be bought and assassins and even paedophiles offer their services. These darknet sites are completely inaccessible, except when accessing them via an anonymous network, such as through TOR, 12P, Freenet or Zeronet. In the name TOR, the onion router, the word onion already indicates that many layers have to be shielded before the identity of a user can be traced. We're talking about anonymous networks. The cross-pollination between the private and public sectors is the main focus of my question, which, in my opinion, is an example of how Belgium can deal even better with the dangers of cybercrime and the search for solutions. Mr Minister, are there any persons active within the federal entity in Belgium who monitor the darknet? If yes, in which FPS or public authority? Is cooperation between private and public actors also possible in our country? Are there concrete similar initiatives in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u37	Mr President, Mr Vermeulen, random monitoring is not possible under Belgian law. On the other hand, if the investigating court authorises this, monitoring can be carried out in specific cases. The local and federal police are investigating criminal activities on the dark web. This does not happen systematically, but ad hocly in the context of concrete dossiers, mainly international. Recently, in cooperation with the FBI, Europol, Federal Computer Crime Unit (FCCU), the Federal Judicial Police Dendermonde and Police Zone Kouter, a number of suspects were apprehended with drug offences on the dark web. There is already cooperation between public and private actors in this country. For example, the FCCU maintains contacts with several private partners, both in the context of the intelligence operation and in the context of concrete dossiers. In such a case, the investigating magistrate shall evaluate whether cooperation is appropriate and for the benefit of the integrated police. This cooperation has not yet been institutionalised within the police force and currently only exists in the exchange of information and expertise. The cooperation of the Belgian police with Europol and Interpol also brings the police into contact with private partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u38	Minister, it is of course a fact that the fight against cybercrime in Belgium has certainly not grown out of its infancy. The previous government has made many announcements about the Cybersecurity Centre (CCB). This would ensure better coordination between the different services. We actually need to start with that now. The fact that monitoring is not yet in place and that cooperation has not yet been institutionalized means that there is still much work to be done. In the Juristenkrant of 25 June, I read that two experts in this field, Mr Jan Kerkhofs of the federal prosecutor and investigating judge Philippe Van Linthout, clearly point out that justice is not sufficiently concerned about cybercrime. There is a great deal of ignorance among citizens about the dangers of cybercrime. In their view, the existing research resources are certainly not adapted to these times and they are asking for additional research opportunities. There is also a lot of work to be done for you. I would like to support you in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u39	Question No 5545 by Mrs Özen is transformed into a written question, as is question No 5563 by Mrs Jadin.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u40	We have talked a few times about the electronic bankruptcy file and the "Failmanager'. I do not think I should convince you anymore of the enthusiasm at the clerks of commerce, the presidents and some of the curators to be able to work with this system. In any case, the system offers advantages, but in order to make everything possible, the publication of a KB is urgent. It must recognise the electronic processing of bankruptcies as property debt. The text of that KB is long gone. It only needs to be published in the Belgian Official Journal. I have attached the text of that Royal Decree to my question. I don't have to show you that. You know that better than anyone. It is important to know that it states that the costs of processing the bankruptcy file electronically are charged to the bankrupt estate. These costs shall be budgeted under the supervision of the Judge-General authorising them. That is the right provision to prevent it from spreading the pan. When will the Royal Decree finally be published?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u41	As I mentioned in the explanatory memorandum on ICT, it is my intention to take a legislative initiative in the autumn to assign the task of creating and managing an IT system that manages the electronic curator files to the desk associations. I hope to include this in the modernisation of insolvency law. It is therefore premature to publish a KB in which this cost is charged to the estate. Moreover, there is no activity in a majority of bankruptcy files and there is nothing to solve the charge of the estate. Why charge just this cost and not other costs? By the way, what is meant by the cost of processing the bankruptcy file electronically? Underneath that one can understand a lot. I think that this should be seen in a larger picture. As has already been said, I will soon be working on a legislative initiative, which I count on your cooperation, and the implementation of this legislation will bring about the computerization of curator files.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u42	We will be able to support any initiative that contributes to a solution. However, I am somewhat disappointed by your answer. This KB existed a long time ago. I'm surprised you're changing the gun now. The system has been worked out to the point. I don't think anyone should be persuaded of the benefits. I think they're trying to put things off. The benefits and efficiency gains that can be booked get off the job. In the meantime, I had also asked a question to the Minister of Finance. He too is convinced of the advantages that that system offers. For example, there will be a much better control of the funds from bankruptcies that the liquidators are required to manage, which is not the case at the moment. I believe that this system offers only advantages. However, by turning it back into a full legislative initiative, I fear that a great deal of useful work that has already been done will be lost. I hope that this will be carefully considered and that there will be thorough consultation with all the actors in order to find a very quick solution. The way things are now going, there will be a lot of lost work. For the record, I will give you Minister Van Overtveldt's answer so that you can see that he too is convinced of the benefits it offers. The sine qua non condition is, of course, a legal regulation. I had hoped that the KB that had been planned for a long time would have arrived.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u43	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Stefaan Van Hecke's 5602 is hereby withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u44	Minister, at the beginning of the summer holidays, international child abductions are a topical issue. Results from a study by Child Focus show that there would be around 300 kidnapped children every year. In the past, I have already asked questions about this to the Ministers for Justice, Foreign Affairs and Home Affairs and also to the Secretary of State for Family Policy. The answers show that different bodies are dealing with this problem. For example, Child Focus had 467 files in 2009 and 470 in 2010. The Central Authority for Legal Aid in Civil Affairs of the FPS Justice had 151 files in 2009 and 136 in 2010. The Directorate for Consular Affairs of the FPS Foreign Affairs had 116 files in 2009 and 103 in 2010. My most recent question on this matter to your predecessor as Minister of Justice dates back to October 2011. At that time a number of initiatives have been taken in recent years to improve the visibility of the Central Authority, which is yours. For example, there was an internet page with useful information on the site of the FPS Justice, a telephone service with continuous observation, a specific mailbox, and so on. In your reply to a question from Mr Demeyer in this committee last week, you gave figures, among other things, concerning the return costs that the Central Authority will bear when the return is successful. I would like to add the following questions. Firstly, what trend has been observed in the figures since 2010 in relation to child abductions? Secondly, in how many cases was the Central Authority considered competent in recent years? In how many cases has a return procedure been successfully launched? Thirdly, how are the available instruments to optimise the visibility of the Central Authority evaluated today? Are any additional measures being taken? Fourthly and finally, you can explain the cooperation that exists between the various departments. For example, to what extent does Child Focus solve cases without intervention from a federal government?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u45	Mr President, Mr Lahaye-Battheu, I will first answer your question for figures. In 2010, 136 new files were opened and dealt with. The figures for subsequent years for 2011 are 166, for 2012 152, for 2013 124 and for 2014 159. This shows that, following a significant increase in 2011, the number of files decreased in 2012 and continued to decrease in 2013 and then to increase back in 2014. When the Belgian Central Authority deals with a dossier and then closes, the reason for closure is always noted. In the case of the 47 files under the Hague Children's Abduction Convention, supplemented where appropriate by the Brussels IIa Regulation, the main reasons for the closure in 2010 were 21 with voluntary return, 10 with return as a result of a court decision, 4 friendly settlements and 2 requests with withdrawal. Among the 60 files, the main reasons for the closure in 2011 were 27 with voluntary return, 8 with withdrawal, 7 with return as a result of a judicial decision. Among the 60 files, the main reasons for the closure in 2012 were 24 with voluntary return, 5 friendly settlements, 4 with return as a result of a court decision, a court non-return decision. Among the 44 files, the main reasons for the closure in 2013 were 20 with voluntary return, 2 friendly settlements and one with return as a result of a judicial decision. Among the 53 files, the main reasons for the closure in 2014 were 20 with voluntary return, 8 friendly settlements and 6 with return as a result of a judicial decision. The costs incurred by the FPS Justice through the use of the Budgetary Credit Allerhande Expenditure resulting from the implementation of international cooperation agreements in 2012 amounted to 16 438 euros, for 2013 that was... You will read the figures. The FPS Justice notes that both the functional inbox and the 24/24h telephone permanence are still regularly requested. In 2012 and 2013, the functional inbox received about twenty emails about questions about prevention or information about family law. As far as telephone permanence is concerned, the employees received a number of calls between 60 and 80 during the permanence hours. You'll read this. The citizen finds her or his way to the Belgian Central Authority also outside office hours or on public holidays. Finally, the website, accessible via justice.belgium.be/children_and_young people/international_children's abductions, is regularly updated so that the most up-to-date information is available to those interested. Regarding the cooperation between Child Focus, the FPS Justice, the FPS Foreign Affairs and the judicial authorities in the field of international child abductions and cross-border access rights, an internal protocol regulating cooperation has been in place since 2007. The protocol provides, inter alia, that if the parent of whom the child has been abducted first turns to Child Focus, she/he is informed of the possibilities for action existing in the context of international judicial cooperation in civil matters. Child Focus refers the parent to the competent FOD and informs that FOD via a standard form. The competent FOD should therefore always be aware of the files handled by Child Focus. The competent FPS Justice or Foreign Affairs.. will depend on the country in which the child is withheld and whether or not that country is linked to Belgium by an international instrument on child abductions. If an instrument of this kind is available, the FPS Justice and the Belgian Central Authority is competent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u46	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the long answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u47	Minister, the Belgian Government has been renting the Tilburg prison for a number of years in order to sustain the overpopulation in Belgian prisons. Basically, the prison rent ends at the end of this year. My questions are therefore very simple. The figures for the prison system were published two weeks ago. There's been a decline in overpopulation, but I'm still asking my questions. How many inmates are still in Tilburg prison today? Will there be an effective end to the rent of the prison in Tilburg at the end of the year? If so, how will the return of the prisoners to Belgian prisons go? What timing is used? Which prisons will they be sent to? Is this going to recreate overpopulation in these prisons? If not, has the Council of Ministers already decided to extend the rent of the prison? For what period? What is the cost of this? Will further measures be taken next year to reduce the prison population in Tilburg so that the rent can be effectively terminated by the end of 2016? Maybe I'm getting ahead of your Master Plan 3. Is the decline in the total population of the prison that will soon no longer be necessary for the rent of the Tilburg prison?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u48	Minister, in line with what has just been said, in 2016 the rental of the Tilburg prison will be completed. This means 600 prisoners returning to prisons in our territory. What is the plan of action considered or concluded in relation to this repatriation? At what pace will this return take place in Belgium and in our prisons? Do you have a calendar? Will these detainees be distributed in all the prisons in the country or, on the contrary, will some of them be privileged? In order to avoid a short-term increase in the rate of overcrowding, are you considering speeding up consideration of alternative punishments?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u49	Mr President, mevrouw De Wit, I asked the Council of Ministers last week to extend until 31 December the Convention on the exploitation of the Tilburg prison. The decision was postponed to the Council of Ministers next Friday. These are not 600 inmates as you say, but 500. I had already made the decision to reduce the number of inmates from 550 to 500 as of April 1, 2015. Although there is a substantial decline in the prison population, it is not possible to evacuate Tilburg prison by the end of 2015. While today's overpopulation has fallen to 10%, it would rise again to more than 15% as a result of the evacuation. Both the inspection of finance and the Minister for the Budget have agreed to the extension. The cost is 35.1 million euros. The Minister of Budget asked me to provide him with a detailed exit plan for December 31, 2015. We will allocate the 500 inmates to the various correctional institutions, taking into account the anticipated capacity and occupancy of each institution at that time. In my Justice Plan, I announced that prison overcrowding must be combated, on the one hand, by promoting alternative penalties, reducing the use of preventive detention and the flow out of the internees towards the external circuit of medical-legal psychiatric care and, on the other hand, by reviewing the cellular capacity. As I said, closing the Tilburg prison at the end of this year is not realistic. With the measures in preparation and the continuation of the trend, the evacuation of Tilburg should be a viable map by the end of 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u50	Thank you, Minister. I note that for the time being we will have to keep doing it with the Tilburg prison. I'll look into it, but I have the impression that you agreed on a lower cost than before, unless I'm mistaken. We will follow that up along with the measures that should be an alternative to imprisonment. It will be difficult to get all these measures around one year and make such a big difference that the prison in Tilburg will no longer be necessary. However, I am curious to know whether it will succeed. I think it can be an added value if you succeed, both for the budget and for prisoners themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u51	Question No 5683 by Mr Vanvelthoven was withdrawn from the agenda because of his absence. Question No 5634 by Mrs Pas was also withdrawn from the agenda because of her absence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u52	The press revealed that a man had been interned since 2008 in the psychiatric annex of the Forest prison, sometimes in the Paifve social defence institution while his judgement, dated 27 June 2008, acquitted him. Whether it is due to a crackdown or a mistransmission of information, this ubiquitous situation is unacceptable to the person concerned. On what legal basis did the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office demand that this man be kept in detention? Have any lessons been learned from this flogging? Is the prison database now able to detect these errors more quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u53	In my capacity as Minister of Justice, I cannot, as a general rule, disclose the elements of an individual file that is still in progress. In this regard, rule 122 of the Rules of the Chamber states that, inter alia, questions relating to cases of particular interest or to personal statistical cases are inadmissible. Nevertheless, the Prosecutor General of Brussels has forwarded the following to me in order to allow me to answer your question. In fact, the person concerned was not deprived of his liberty by mistake. The recent hesitations of the prison administration with regard to the scope of the judgement of 27 June 2008 stemmed from the fact that the passage in which the court referred to the necessity of internment did not appear in the final part of the judgement, but was incorporated into the part of the judgement containing its reasons. The management of the Paifve Social Defence Institution has therefore taken a unilateral release decision. Indeed, in the judgement of 27 June 2008, the Brussels Correctional Court, without explicitly acquittal, states that the facts do not constitute an offence if they were committed under the conditions laid down in article 71 of the Criminal Code, either in a situation of mental imbalance which renders the perpetrator incapable of controlling his actions. On the other hand, in its motivation, having found that the person concerned, arrested in flagrante delicto, was in admission of the facts – several thefts and attempted thefts in a state of legal recidivism – which he was accused of and having cited the report of his mental expertise, the court made it clear that a measure of internment of the accused was necessary. However, the Court of Cassation has already stated on several occasions that no matter where the judge's decision is in a judgment provided that it is expressed. The judgement of 27 June 2008 was, moreover, for nearly seven years interpreted and executed without any reservation by the parties concerned alone – the Public Prosecutor's Office and the internee – as a decision of internment. On 29 January 2015, the Social Defence Commission of Forest ordered the continued placement of the person concerned in Paifve. On this basis, the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office ordered the person concerned to be reinstated in the Psychiatric Annex of Forest on 3 April 2015. Referred again, the Social Defence Commission of Forest declared itself incompetent on 30 April 2015 but, on 7 May 2015, on opposition from the King's prosecutor and following the requisitions of the General Prosecutor's Office, the Higher Social Defence Commission reformed this decision and ordered the continued placement of the internee in Paifve pending the finding of a structure adapted to his pathology.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic222x.u54	Minister, thank you for your full answer.
