ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u1	Mr. President, Minister, I have been informed of the situation of several psychologists and social workers working in the seven psychosocial services in prisons. Their contract ended on 31 December and seven workers were not to be replaced or extended. I take the particular case of the only psychologist in the psycho-social service of Huy prison. Indeed, already in early 2013, articles were published in the press showing that only one psychologist in this prison was clearly insufficient. The well-being in prison and the psychological support that prisoners can find there are essential. Psychological support is a right for prisoners, defendants and convicted prisoners, but also a necessity for some who are under treatment or have to start one. This is all the more the case when we know how the prison is a pathogenic environment. In addition, the psychosocial service is able to assess the risk of recidivism and to combat this risk by working on reintegration. While we can welcome the extension of this psychologist's contract for a period of three months, I remain concerned about the longer-term situation, given the needs of the prison and the detainees. In your savings plan, you cannot miss out on this situation, it is about both the well-being of the inmates and the safety of all. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. Do you intend to extend the contract of the psychologist at Huy Prison in the longer term? Otherwise, how do you intend to guarantee the effectiveness of all prison missions, as well as the supervision of prisoners? Who is currently in Huy Prison preparing the prisoner for psychosocial reintegration and evaluating his proposals for reclassification? Who will be responsible for doing so if the contract is not renewed? In general, how is the psychosocial service at Huy Prison currently organized? What are your ambitions regarding the contracts of social workers and psychologists in other psychosocial services in Belgian prisons?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u2	Fernandez, it is true that the psychologist's fixed-term employment contract in Huy expired at the end of 2014. The FPS Justice Steering Committee had decided to submit an application for renewal to the Finance Inspectorate, despite budgetary difficulties. The Commission approved an extension of the contract until March 31. I know that the FPS Justice Steering Committee will, upon expiry of the contract, request an extension from the Finance Inspectorate. The latter is cautious in its opinions, as it is obliged to follow the circular containing measures in terms of monitoring of federal staff. According to the circular, "it is prudent not to allow any new human resources decisions from 1 January 2015 due to the real risk of overexpenditure. On a proposal from the Ministers for the Budget and the Civil Service, a monitoring will be submitted to the Council of Ministers for Budgetary Control 2015 and will aim to assess the risk of over-expenditure. On the basis of the results of this monitoring, the Council of Ministers will lay down the procedures for easing the measure imposed. Services wishing to obtain an exemption from this measure must submit a reasoned request, accompanied by the advice of the Inspector of Finance, the Commissioner of the Government and the Delegate of the Minister of Budget, to the Ministers of Budget and the Public Service. The latter shall decide within fifteen calendar days after receiving the request." I have already told you on several occasions that I have asked the government for a derogation on both the way to achieve the savings imposed and their pace. It is because of this type of file that I ask the government this question. So I'm doing everything I can to ensure that Huy's psychologist can continue his work after March 31. With regard to your second question, in general, the preparation of plans for the reclassification of prisoners is organized by the psychosocial team, composed of social assistants, psychologists and, if necessary, a psychiatrist. Currently, the SPS team at Huy Prison only includes a psychologist and a social worker. I am not assuming that the contract will not be extended. As for my ambitions regarding the contracts of social workers and psychologists in other psychosocial services in prisons, I made it clear to the trade unions that I did not have the will to dismiss agents and terminate contracts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u3	Minister, thank you for your rather optimistic answers. I note that you are well aware of the role of psychologists and psychosocial services in prisons. I will certainly return to you if Huy's psychologist's contract is not extended. As I said, he's the only one left. If he is no longer there, his absence will put the service and follow-up of inmates in difficulty.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u4	Mr.President, Minister, we have had a new act since 2010 to promote the objectivation of the calculation of the parent's food contributions. We have also planned the establishment of a Committee on Food Contributions. A royal decree opening the candidatures for these posts was published in the Belgian Moniteur on 17 March 2014 and, at the time, the Secretary of State for Family Policy welcomed the establishment of this commission, whose role will be to make recommendations to judges throughout the country on how food contributions are to be fixed. Minister, my questions are simple. What is the status of setting up the commission? Has there been a sufficient number of nominations and have the members of this committee been appointed? If so, are you planning a first meeting of this committee in the near future? If not, how do you plan to speed things up?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u5	Mr President, Minister, I have a similar question. Following the Law of 19 March 2010 to promote an objective calculation of parental maintenance contributions for their children, a KB was published on 17 March 2014 to determine the composition and functioning of the Maintenance Contributions Committee. That committee would be set up to ensure an objective calculation of maintenance contributions. Your predecessor replied in the Justice Committee on 20 January last year that this Maintenance Contributions Committee would be set up in the course of the first semester of 2014, following the publication of the relevant KB. Since this planned installation has not taken place so far, I have the following questions. Since the applications had to be submitted within two months of the publication of the Royal Decree, I assume that the members are already known. What is the status of the composition of the committee? Have all professional groups and/or associations nominated a candidate? Within what period will this committee be operational effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u6	Mr President, pursuant to Article 2 (2), second paragraph, of the Royal Decree of 7 February 2014, a call to candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 17 March 2014 for the purpose of fulfilling the mandates of the Committee for Objecting Maintenance Fees. In support of this call, my predecessor sent information correspondence to the College of the courts and courts, to the representative associations active in the alimony claims sector and to the ministers of the Länder. The Food Contributions Commission is not yet in place, however, due to the absence of nominations for the positions of judge (two members), notary (one member) and debt mediator (one member). Accordingly, on 22 December 2014, I sent a reminder letter to the authorities concerned. A new call for candidates indicating that the number of candidates in the above categories is insufficient will soon be published in the Belgian Monitor. I received nominations from the French-speaking and German-speaking counters, as well as from the Order of Flemish Baries, from the Federal Conciliation Committee for the post of federal mediator, from the associations active in the domain of maintenance claims and from the Ligue des familles, the Family Association and the Department for alimony claims. Members will be appointed as soon as possible, upon receipt of nominations for the positions of judge, notary and debt mediator. The Ministers of the Flemish and German-speaking Communities also informed me of the names of their representatives. The Commission on Food Contributions will meet as soon as possible in the light of the above information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am surprised to see that even the magistrates have not been able to present their candidates to you, while the establishment of this commission responds to the request of some of them. We all have an interest in putting this in place quickly because it is also a way to make Justice and the decisions it makes, especially in cases as sensitive as those concerning food contributions. I am counting on you, minister, to revive who is right if, of course, your first reminder was not enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u8	A first reminder was already made on 22 December 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u9	Mr President, Minister, despite the impetus given by the Law of 19 March 2010, we note that in practice there is still not enough concrete directive to determine the maintenance contribution, which in practice causes problems and legal uncertainty all too often. In practice, we often see wet fingering to determine how the maintenance fee should be budgeted. The committee announced will optimise this budget and objectify and the sooner it can get to work, the better. We hear that you have sent a rapple for the second time, and that gives us hope. We can only accept this in a positive way, because the sooner that committee is effective, the better we will have it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u10	Mr. Chair, Minister, mediation must be promoted in all litigations to allow for a faster but, above all, more lasting resolution of conflicts. A large number of actors in the judiciary, as well as economic and therapeutic worlds, agree. Our law on mediation has existed since 2005, there is a European directive, provisions in a large number of laws (family court, youth protection law, collective actions, etc.).). A study was commissioned in 2009 by the Secretary of State for Family Policy on the obstacles to the implementation of mediation. The study made it clear that the lack of information to the public, as well as the lack of funding for this mediation, was at the root of these implementation difficulties. A Justice Commission visited Quebec in a previous legislature to examine how mediation worked. I wasn't, but I had an echo: at the level of the Minister of Justice, we go so far as to fund six mediation sessions when children are involved in a couple's conflict. Only 7 per cent of family disputes are still before the courts. That is to say, mediation still has meaning and effect. In your policy note, you considered that the use of mediation was a useful, timely and interesting avenue, and that it could also be mentioned as a means of eliminating the backlog of cases, but also for its added value in conflict resolution, particularly in the family. However, it has also been said in your budget review, Minister, that there is no budget line to fund this friendly settlement to date. Mediation in the courts is conducted on a voluntary and voluntary basis by the mediators. Similarly, training courses which allow the approval of the Federal Mediation Commission are only taken over by the mediators themselves. Few institutions or non-profit organisations allow people to participate in a mediation process at reduced rates, except in the context of legal aid for the very disadvantaged. The Walloon Region has also recently severely limited the subsidization of mediation sessions in family planning, in particular invoking the federal jurisdiction to resolve such conflicts, in the context of judicial proceedings, separations or divorces. Minister, with the objective, perspective and foresight of your political guidance notes, what concrete and new steps do you intend to take to promote mediation, particularly in family conflicts? What are the budgets you are planning to make available to finance these modes of amicable conflict resolution? Can one envisage, like what is being done in Quebec, taking care of all or part of these mediation costs, for example with respect to couples with children who would agree to submit to this type of conflict resolution?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u11	Mr President, Mr Brotcorne, as I recall in my general policy statement, it is indeed my intention to encourage mediation as much as possible, in order to avoid legal action where possible. The orientation towards alternative forms of conflict resolution is one of the objectives of my desire to reorganize or at least correct the judicial landscape. The Act of 30 July 2013 establishing a Family and Youth Court devoted several of its provisions to alternative dispute resolution methods, including mediation, since the authors were aware of the importance of alternative dispute resolution techniques in the event of a family crisis. However, it is still too early to draw conclusions on the contribution they constitute, the law having come into force on 1 September 2014. Mediation was to be pursued at different stages of the proceedings, first upstream and then during the judicial phase. The law established the right to inform the parties on alternative methods of settlement of disputes for clerks, in article 1253ter/1 of the Judicial Code. As the parliamentary proceedings pointed out, the timid use of mediation came from the lack of information or at least from incomplete or erroneous information or from the idea that mediation is expensive. It is therefore necessary to examine first of all what the best information the public will give on medium-term mediation, since article 1253ter/1 of the Judicial Code requires the clerks to give the parties the legal provisions on mediation, the list of judicial districts, the list of mediators by judicial district and the initiatives taking place there, as well as a brochure on mediation. In addition to this, the law has emphasized the techniques of amicable dispute resolution before the courts by creating a specific chamber within the family court - the amicable settlement chamber - whose referral procedure is governed by articles 731 and 1253ter/3 of the Judicial Code. The Chamber may be seized at any time by the parties while the case is pending before another family room. It may also be referred to the trial judge by reference given in the minutes of the hearing. In addition, in accordance with article 78, paragraph 7, and article 101, paragraph 2, paragraph 5, of the Judicial Code, judges who sit in the amicable chambers of settlement must have received specific training from the Judicial Training Institute, which is financed by the SPF Justice. In order to outline, the law has sought to establish a new court that is easy to seize, composed of professional magistrates. Again, it is too early to assess the success of this new chamber. I am currently reviewing new initiatives that could be taken to promote mediation. I will continue to contact various bodies active in this area, including the Federal Mediation Commission. Where appropriate, budgets could, depending on opportunities, be devoted to these initiatives, which would then be in addition to the Federal Mediation Commission's budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u12	Minister, you have made a reminder of a whole series of things that we know well for participating in a very proactive way in the creation of the Family Court. My question was much broader than the only judicial area in the context of family conflicts. I was talking to you about the economic and even therapeutic world, which is also demanding. Fortunately, your last two paragraphs refer to an examination, on your part, of more advanced and perhaps more innovative solutions. And above all, Minister, you will not escape because it is the same litany that comes back every time you are asked a question. These are the budgetary resources that you will be able to make available. If we are already exhausting all the provision that the federal government had set aside to respond to new policies, how are we going to properly fund all these means of conflict resolution that are – and I agree with your general policy note on this – very useful and timely ways to avoid judicialization?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u13	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Blanchart's 1336 has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u14	Mr Minister, you know him, the chaplain there in Antwerp, who can't be beaten away from the cameras, and if he isn't, or his father. Recently, he was arrested trying to take a plane with his girlfriend. Of course, he couldn't because he ended up in jail shortly before after a report of partner violence. He was released at the time, but was restrained from contact. Apparently, those two went on vacation together. That's what they said. Because it was clear that those conditions were violated, he's back in jail. I certainly do not want to talk about this particular case, but there is something special going on. Apparently, the two are still a couple and can't undo the restraining order. The man is now being arrested and put in jail. Why? Danger of recidivism, because he could violate his terms again and get back in touch with his partner. He's got to go to jail for that. Because people think he would violate his terms again, he has to go to jail, but in that cell he can have a visit from the same person. That's really kafkaian. Something's not right here anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u15	Under surveillance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u16	Under surveillance, yes, but you do understand that this is absurd. This is not explained. I am mainly concerned with the principle. I understand that in the meantime this has been more or less resolved. The restraining order wouldn't be there anymore. You may be able to confirm that in a moment. Is it still there or not, Minister? Is it true what's going on in the media about that? Then the question arises as to how a visitation right goes in prison. I know that all this is covered by the basic law, but that remains very general. I've looked at that basic law, but I can't find an answer to a number of questions. Apparently, there are very few criteria, except with regard to public order and security, regarding visiting rights. I would like to know on what basis, knowing that there is a restraining order, there is a fear of repeated danger. The prison will then allow the recidivism. Under what regulations may a prisoner receive a visit, even if there is a restraining order? I find no solution to this in the basic law. Another question is whether the right to visit is absolute. No, of course not. I know that one can be made to be discreet and can only have contact with the lawyer for a period of time. I know there are restrictions on public order and security, but how are you going to judge that when you enter a prison? Not every visitor shows itself to be equally dangerous. Not everyone is equally well-known. Perhaps certain bans on contact, including in other frameworks such as gang formation, can be avoided in this way, because one person is simply not known. Then they're just gonna visit someone in prison. This raises a number of questions, for which our current legislation does not provide a solution, unless you give me the answer later, which shows that I have not found the information. In any case, are you going to put an end to that absurd situation, as long as it hasn't already happened? Finally, my final question, Minister. I know there's a list of everyone who comes to visit in prison. Per prisoner one can perfectly see who has been visiting. What happens to all those lists in the end? Are they doing anything with that? Is there a screening? Can someone get the lists? Is it just something that sits in the computer and sits there and can only be requested in other investigations, as sometimes happens? But I wonder who could ultimately screen such a list for, for example, a restraining order. How is this used in practice? This is actually a special case that raises a lot of questions about a general approach to visits, lists and their monitoring. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u17	Mrs De Wit, the facts you are talking about are part of a judicial investigation and are part of the secret of a criminal investigation to which the Minister of Justice is also subject. So I don't have any information on that. The visit of detainees, your second question, is governed by the basic law on the prison system and the legal status of the inmate from 12 January 2005 in Articles 58 to 63. Article 59 (1) provides that blood and related persons in the straight line, the guardian, the spouse, the legally or factually cohabiting partner, brothers, sisters, uncles and aunts are to be admitted to the visit of the prisoner after showing their capacity. Exceptions to this rule - this is based on the European Convention on Human Rights - are only possible in very special circumstances and for a short period of time and must be justified as such. In the case of a visitor not listed in Article 59 (1), § 2 shall apply. It states that other visitors are admitted to the visit after prior authorisation by the Director. Admission to visit may be refused only where the person concerned cannot demonstrate a fair interest or where there are individualised indications that the visit may jeopardise the maintenance of order or safety. The philosophy of the basic law is therefore completely different from that of the law on pre-trial detention and is aimed at maintaining family and social contacts, despite detention. As far as your third question is concerned, the right to visit for prisoners is indeed not absolute. Thus, pursuant to Article 20 of the Law of 20 July 1990 on provisional detention, the investigating judge may order certain measures concerning the regime of a suspect under arrest warrant. On that legal basis, he may prohibit the visit of individual persons listed in his order, including the privileged persons mentioned in Article 59 (1) of the Basic Law. In view of the above, I think I can say that your fourth question is not an absurd one. As in the present case, the investigating judge can give orders to the prison director to be followed promptly. As far as your fifth question is concerned, the prisons are indeed keeping a list of visits. They are used for internal control by the prison director. The list will be used, for example, to check whether a particular visitor is indeed closer to the inmate. These lists can, of course, be passed on to the judicial authorities in response to their explicit request, subject to respect for legal procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u18	Minister, a number of matters are indeed covered by the basic law and the legal position, as you also mention. Certain measures are therefore possible. However, it is very strange that we should not call it absurd that a prison director who can intervene and knows on what basis a prisoner will end up in prison can decide to allow that contact, especially if a restraining order was not observed in this case. At least that's weird. The investigating judge may now take measures and approve the contact, but at first he was not. That is very difficult to explain and to understand. It is one of the tasks of the Justice Department to explain certain measures and decisions, for example why a person who is in prison for some reason may ultimately do in prison what he was not allowed to do as a free man. In this case it is about a restraining order, but it can also be about other matters. We need to think about this and perhaps not include it in the potpourri law, but certainly in the context of the other reforms, in order to make a few things more plausible. In addition, it seems essential to me that we do something about the lists and that we carry out proper checks on visitors. Anyone else could come visit anyone in prison, unless they're on secret, of course. In this way it is very easy to make agreements that perhaps should not be made. That will be the subject of a whole exercise. This is a very concrete case that raises a number of questions. As far as I am concerned, Minister, it is as absurd as it is peculiar.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u19	Under item 14, items Nos. 1364, 1379 and 1382 will be dealt with at the end of the afternoon or at the beginning of the evening.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u20	Mr President, Minister, last April the Council of Ministers gave its green light to the construction of the new courthouse in Dinant, whose project had been launched in 2005, in the same way as that in Namur. News that magistrates and lawyers had been waiting for for many years, as the old building became unsanitary. However, according to my information, it appears that at this moment, the construction of this new building is still at the project stage. This is a delay which is beginning to cause serious concern to the judges and lawyers, who have to deal with many inconveniences due to the old places they are still forced to occupy: closure of the internal court for security reasons, computer facilities of fortune, relocation of certain bodies, complications for those who have to go to court, etc. In addition, there is also a large amount of expenditure – in the amount of heating costs, in particular – to ensure the functioning of the former courthouse. Minister, can you tell me what is the status of this project? When can the workers of the courthouse and the litigants expect to invest these new premises? Does the government intend, in the context of the 2015 budget, to implement this dossier definitively?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u21	Mr President, Mr Clarinval, on 4 April 2014, the Council of Ministers did indeed agree in principle on the construction of a new courthouse in Dinant. But the Council of Ministers also decided that this agreement was linked to a number of conditions. Indeed, the file had been prepared on the basis of old occupation standards which provided more space than the current standards. It was therefore requested to adapt the programme to the new occupancy standards and to consider whether other public services could be integrated into the new project. This exercise is carried out by the Régie des Bâtiments. I would therefore refer you to my colleague Deputy Prime Minister Jan Jambon, who has the competence to know the current state of the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u22	Mr President, Minister, I shall therefore question the Minister of the Interior. I assume that the Council of Ministers has not decided anything new since last year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u23	Question No 1395 by Mr Hellings is postponed. The two questions under item 19 were disjointed and question No 1538 by Mrs Van Cauter was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u24	If you want legal assistance, Minister, you must show that your income is below a certain limit or that you belong to those categories whose inability to do so, whether rebuttable or not, is suspected. There is no doubt that this system is not waterproof. Today, a person who still has sufficient income or wealth can benefit from free assistance. This is not fair and unacceptable. The current government agreement provides for a reform of legal assistance and states that this will include, inter alia, the following initiative: the charging of all revenue for the recognition of the right to second-line assistance. In this sense, a number of proposals were already approved by the Council of Ministers on 3 May 2013. I quote: "If it can be shown that a person has sufficient income or wealth, he or she will be excluded from free legal aid. For all persons seeking legal assistance and having an income, moving income, real estate income and capital income must now be calculated to determine whether they are entitled to second-line assistance. This check will be carried out in conjunction with the FPS Finance Officer. I have a few specific questions. Firstly, what is the reason why these measures, proposed by your predecessor, are not yet in force? Secondly, when will these measures, as provided for in the coalition agreement, be effectively implemented? Thirdly, how is cooperation with the FPS Finance? Have any concrete steps been taken? Fourthly, how much money will this measure save for the State?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u25	Mrs Uyttersprot, the previous government did indeed adopt a preliminary draft law amending the Court's Code on legal assistance. The preliminary draft was submitted to the Council of State for its opinion and no consensus was reached on this preliminary draft law within the government and the text was not finally submitted to Parliament. This week, a meeting is planned with my administration to examine the text of the preliminary draft law and to examine whether and how this text can be presented in Parliament. It is, of course, particularly important to examine the extent to which the preliminary draft is in line with the initiatives laid down in the coalition agreement in connection with the reform of legal assistance. You can then expect an initiative from me, which I will present to the government and, of course, to my colleague in the finance department.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u26	Thank you, Minister. It is true, as you yourself say, that the second-line assistance in general needs reform. The financing of the system, which is becoming more expensive every year, should also be reviewed. In order to keep the system sustainable, abuses must be addressed. We all know that there are people who fall just above the border, but equally well that there are people whose income is more specifically usually not told about the real estate income which causes this to lead to inequality. The fact that you are thinking about this in the very short term and that you share the concerns is hopeful and we look forward to these initiatives. .
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u27	Mr Minister, I come back to an audit of 2013 on the execution of the penalty payments, as examined by the Court of Auditors. In particular, it examined the coordination between the FPS Finance and Justice with regard to the enforcement of penalties. Overall, the Court of Auditors noted little progress in relation to 2007 in terms of the strategy or coordination between the different actors involved in the execution of the sentences for a fine. The starting point throughout the enforcement procedure is the transfer or transfer of the extracts from the judgments. It should be done electronically to the FPS Treasury. The Court of Auditors' report showed that this electronic transfer was absolutely not generalised. The electronic transmission has not yet taken place in eight of the then judicial districts. In addition, it was found that the role of the clerks of the prosecutor's office was weak in the enforcement of the penalty. That role was not formalized by a general instruction. The court would not monitor the effectiveness of the enforcement of the penalties. In the field, it appears that the good practice of a number of public prosecutors, such as Antwerp and Ghent, to take initiatives to make the electronic communication of the necessary data in a systematic way has not been generalised. In addition, the Court of Auditors has established that this is painful, that the time limit for the transmission of judgments, preferably by electronic means, which should be three days, is absolutely not respected. In some districts the transfer took place only after the limitation period for the execution of the sentence had been exceeded. I have the following questions. Initiatives were announced when you were Minister of Finance and Mrs Turtelboom Minister of Justice. Initiatives would be taken to resolve these problems. What is the state of play in that? Will the good practices of Ghent and Antwerp be generalised, namely systematic and electronic transmission? What will you do to ensure that the deadline for the transfer of extracts in all districts is respected?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u28	Mrs Van Cauter, as far as your first question on the deadline is concerned, the transfer to the police courts is via flat file in almost all the Registry offices. The MAG computer program itself produces the verdict extracts, which can be transmitted digitally to the recipient NFI via flat file. At the end of 2014, a number of police court clerks did not yet use the digital transfer, although the Attorney General strongly insists on it. There is no such programme for the correctional courts. In some districts there are even weeks behind schedule. As for your second question, under the previous government, on 7 February the Council of Ministers adopted an action plan for the implementation of financial penalties, which sets out actions to address, inter alia, the shortcomings identified by the Court of Auditors. From this, I would like to explain some actions. I'll deal with the second action first. The College of Attorneys General will appoint one responsible for the process of executing the fines and the replacement penalties. On 30 January 2014, the College appointed Mr Paul Kenis, Advocate General at the Court of Appeal, as responsible for the Public Prosecutor's Office for the execution of the financial penalties and the replacement sentences. In accordance with the third action, the Minister of Justice and the College of Attorneys-General will distribute a joint letter on the execution of the penalty and the replacement penalties, updating the existing directives. In the meantime, the College of Attorneys General has sent me a draft letter. According to the sixteenth action, the ICT service of the FPS Justice will implement centralisation and automation by extending the MAG application to the correction courts and prosecutors, so that via a single central database all data and judgment extracts can be automatically transmitted digitally to the recipients. In the meantime, directives will be given to the Registrars. This is what action 17 is all about. In this context, the Minister of Justice and the College of Attorneys-General will, in their joint letter, issue guidelines to the police services, the prosecutors and the Registrys on the electronic transmission of data to the recipients and include a directive for the prosecutors on the timely service of judgments and judgments in default or deemed to have been given in opposition. These guidelines are included in the draft circular. The Action Plan has already been followed twice in the Consultation Body for the Coordination of the Recovery of Non-fiscal Debts in Criminal Matters provided for in the amended Article 179a of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The next meeting would take place on 3 February 2015. If we want to be able to deliver the extracts more quickly, we need to take several steps which will eliminate the reasons for the delay. There is the general workload problem, there is the too long administrative procedure to deliver an extract, there is the too weak developed ICT application to quickly prepare and process the extracts and there is the lack of electronic means of communication to organise faster transmission. The complex interplay of these four elements probably explains why in recent years they have not managed to solve this seemingly simple problem for an outsider. I have launched initiatives around the various problems and action points mentioned. As all this is closely linked to the development of ICT, I will explain this in detail when presenting the ICT strategy for which we agree to make time in this committee during the month of March. As for your third question, whether the good practices of Ghent and Antwerp are too general, we can learn a number of things from the pilot projects you are quoting. However, they are only parts of the structural solution. My ambition is to find solutions that provide a definitive solution for the whole kingdom, for all judgments, and that can be maintained by the services of the Registry, even after special attention was paid to the problem. That is, even after there has been a special focus on the problem and an increased effort has been made. Fourthly, you asked what I would do to ensure that the deadline for the transfer of extracts was respected. A joint letter provides a solution to this problem and will be discussed with the College of Attorneys General as soon as possible, in particular on 27 January. As I indicated, I will explain this in response to the discussion of the ICT strategy in March. The final structural solution is strongly linked to the reworking of the working process of preparing, processing and delivering the extracts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You have given a great deal of information and I will have to read it carefully again. What is to be appreciated is that the Court of Auditors' report has not just been pushed into the shuffle, but has actually started working on it. So that's good. I will conclude with a few brief comments. You say that a person responsible for the execution of the penalties has been appointed to the Public Prosecutor General. However, I assume that this reference magistrate will give instructions to the various competent prosecutors. The execution of the penalties is their responsibility from the point of view of the public prosecutor, and they will therefore actually be followed up. We look forward to receiving the letter. Mr Minister, one final point. It is said that ICT is available everywhere with regard to the transmission of judgments to the police courts. How is it possible that they will not be used in some courts? Maybe that's a weird question. I don't know where the problem is. We have clerks, we have judgments, we can send them electronically and we do not do it. So what's to be done? There's an instruction to do it. So what remains to be done to actually get the people on the ground to do so? If you are talking about a number of weeks of delay in the transmission, then an important step has already been taken as we come from a period when it appears that the period of limitation had already expired. I would ask you to remain attentive to this, but that is clearly what you are doing. So we hear more about this in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u30	We come to the question No. 1384 by Mrs Temmerman on the transfer of Belgian prisoners to Tilburg.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u31	Mr President, I have a very urgent phone to make. I apologise to the Minister, but I should like to ask for my two questions. 1384 and 1389 to be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u32	It'll make my voice better.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u33	All right, then, the questions are: 1384 and 1389 by Mrs Temmerman converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u34	Mr Minister, it is a very short question. Article 8, in fine, of the Law of 21 February 2005 amending the Code of Civil Procedure in connection with mediation states that the legal persons governed by public law may be party to mediation in the cases provided for by law or by a Royal Decree of the Council of Ministers. To date, no implementing measure has been written about this. Are you planning an initiative to make a KB appear on this issue? If so, what is your view and timing? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u35	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, in Article 1724, second paragraph, of the Code of Civil Procedure, it is indeed provided that legal persons governed by public law may be parties to mediation, but only in cases governed by the law or by the Council of Ministers. It should be noted that that restriction was not included in the text of the draft law of 21 February 2005. The text was added during a discussion in the Committee for the Justice of the Chamber during the evocation procedure of the draft by the Senate following the following remark. Some disputes are of such a nature that public policy is excluded. The question then arises as to whether legal persons governed by public law, such as the tax authorities, can settle any dispute amicably through mediation. End of quote. Thus, the scope of conciliation under an amendment was limited to the disputes that can be settled through a settlement, by analogy with what is the case for arbitration. To conclude a settlement implies that one has the ability to have a right and therefore also to forsake it. Consequently, that possibility is limited by the mandatory nature and the nature of public policy of certain rights. Within the same line of thinking, it was provided that the legal persons governed by public law can only be party to mediation in the cases provided for by law. It is true that in the last ten years no law or royal decree has been passed. This question is still being studied. If it appears that an initiative could be taken in this respect, the necessary implementing measures will be adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u36	I thank the Minister for his reply. We will await the outcome of the study.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u37	There are signs that sometimes something goes wrong with the federal central authority for adoption. There is no doubt that the adoption procedure is a long way off. It is also important for the adopters to be able to find as much support as possible from every angle. I do not think it is appropriate to discuss individual cases here. From what was told to me by adopters, it appeared that the adopter at this service was not always treated in the right and respectful way. It is not so much about challenging a negative decision, but about the interaction between the official and the adopters prior to the decision. I would like to ask the following questions. Have you received any complaints about this? Do you know of any complaints about the operation of this service? If so, how do you analyse this problem? Do you see possible solutions? There is a body within the federal central authority, a kind of ombud service, where adopters can lodge a complaint against the way in which they are treated by an official. If so, how many people did they appeal to? If not, will the Minister consider its creation? Do you consider another already existing body competent to challenge negative decisions? How many files were handled by this federal central authority last year? How many decisions were negative and how many of these decisions were challenged in court?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u38	Within the FPS Justice, the federal central authority is part of the Directorate General Law, Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. The service consists of one head of service and six employees. The federal central authority must always examine the circumstances in which an adoption has been made and the provisions of the laws and the convention that apply. This check cannot be carried out other than post fact. However, if the examination of the file reveals that the conditions are not met, the executive authority must be guided by the legal principles governing the file. I understand that a refusal to recognise a foreign adoption decision for those concerned is very serious in human terms. My services have been informed of one complaint concerning the communication of a file. The attention of the employee concerned was drawn to the need to be particularly attentive in the manner of communicating with the applicants, in particular when their file indicates a refusal. The hierarchy was also communicated on the internal functioning of the service and the applicant was informed accordingly. Regarding complaints management at the FPS Justice, I refer to the circular of 14 March 2013 of the FPS P&O dealing with customer orientation in the federal administration, published in the Belgian Official Journal of 22 March 2013. A coordinator of the complaints was appointed to the department of the Chairman of the Management Committee. In 2014, the Federal Central Authority approved and registered 197 adoption files and rejected 46 applications for recognition. There were 10 appeals against non-recognition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u39	I hope, Minister, that this communication will indeed be handled in a good way. After all, many couples wait very long as they start adoption procedures. It is therefore important to pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u40	Mr Minister, I have reports that the court of first instance of Limburg in the Tongeren and Hasselt departments is immediately shutting down chambers. At the Hasselt department, two correctional rooms and one room are shut down at the family and youth court. In the civil section there are two tax chambers only in the couple weeks. In the Tongeren department, one room is shut down at both the civil and the correctional section. This will, of course, have an impact on the lead times. The Management Committee shall give reasons for the total underemployment of the Registry framework for the non-appointment of Registrars and the non-appointment of vacant posts. What is the framework currently envisaged for the Hasselt and Tongeren departments? To what extent has it been filled out? How many vacancies are currently available and for which functions? When will these be published? Are there any courts of first instance in other districts where rooms are shut down? What about the courts of appeal? To what extent have the frameworks been completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u41	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, I am well aware of the problem and for this reason I have decided to meet personally all the first Presidents of the courts of employment and the labour courts in order to discuss the priorities for recruitment and the priority to be given to them in the case of vacant declarations within the Chambers of Commerce. I have considered it appropriate to invite the Presidents of the courts, the section presidents and the principal officers of the respective departments to this meeting. I have asked the Chiefs of Staff to give an update on the current staff status, supplemented by their views on the implementation of the vacant relations of magistrates and/or prosecutors and/or judicial staff, taking into account the budgetary context and the costs of recruitment. For the sake of completeness, I would like to make it clear that there are no more separate chambers for the departments under the new jurisdiction. In the philosophy of judicial reform, it is up to the chief clerk to involve the staff where the need is greatest. Finally, I can inform you that the current rate of occupation of the judicial staff in the court of first instance in Limburg is 93,2%.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u42	Minister, I hope that a solution will be found. After all, it cannot be the intention to slow down the pace of justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u43	Mr President, Minister, in the Nationality Code, the merits are described as exceptional in sports, science and socio-cultural matters, and this exception is very precisely defined. The Government declaration adds to the facilities for naturalization economic merits without further clarification. Mr Minister, if these are economic merits, will they be judged on the basis of personal wealth or on the basis of the real contribution to the Belgian economy? For example, will this economic exception for access to naturalization be granted to workers who are sometimes deprived of a residence permit and who have for many years contributed to Belgium's gross domestic product? Will this economic exception affect recognised migrant workers, who contribute two billion euros annually to Belgium? Will these facilities be granted to employers of foreign companies which have created decent jobs in Belgium? Or will only rich foreigners be able to enjoy this naturalization without conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u44	Mr President, Mr Daerden, with regard to this matter, the government agreement states: "In addition to sports, socio-cultural and scientific merits, economic merits will also be taken into account when granting naturalization. A legal definition will be drawn up for this purpose." As far as this point is concerned, I invite you to show some patience. This is indeed an important issue. The legal definition, to which the government agreement refers, will be carefully prepared by my administration and will naturally, after following the usual process, be introduced as a bill in Parliament. At this point, I will be very attentive to any proposed amendments, after which the legislative process can be completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u45	Minister, thank you for this answer, which leaves me with great hope for the logic of finding a balanced text that will allow us to meet as many situations as possible. We know that many foreigners contribute to our economy and its development.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u46	Minister, on 30 November 2014, Farid Bamouhammad, who should still be in prison until 2027, was released for everyone quite unexpectedly. Following, among other things, a refusal to request euthanasia and a hunger strike, the European Court of Human Rights recommended that he be treated outside prison. He was granted freedom through a unilateral petition to the court of first instance in Liège. Everyone knows his history. Farid Bamouhammad has apparently been transferred 187 times to another prison, due to serious staff problems. In addition, with a previous release, he took hostage, so that serious questions can be asked about the behaviour of this person who is not only problematic but also dangerous to his environment. I understand that you filed third-party actions immediately after his release, but this was rejected. Mr Bamouhammad's lawyer emphasizes that he is supposed to be undergoing medical treatment, and we have since read in interviews that his condition has improved. He would have calmed down, and so on. According to the verdict, a judicial assistant has been appointed to follow the file further. This situation raises many questions about what has happened and what should be the further approach. Can you explain to us the legal basis for his release? How is it possible that this release has taken place independently of the procedures relating to external legal status? Why has the procedure for provisional release not been used for medical reasons not been used? Or wasn't there a possibility? You have recently drawn up a royal decree to prevent such proceedings in the future. What are the implications of that? In the meantime, are there any other detainees who have made such a one-sided request? Can we see from the lawyer's explanation that this time, contrary to what was the case with the first judgment on 30 November, conditions are being imposed? If this is not complied with, what procedure can be used?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u47	The person concerned, Farid Bamouhammad, was temporarily released for medical reasons, without any condition being attached to it. That's what we read in the paper. In reply to another oral question, you replied that the Belgian State filed a third-party appeal against the interim judgment. However, that appeal did not delay the judge's decision. In the meantime, the third party proceedings have been dealt with and would have been rejected. Can you explain the reasons as formulated by the court? We read in the media that the person concerned must be taken care of. Does this mean that conditions have been imposed? Can you explain this? Will you resign or appeal against the interim decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u48	Minister, the context has been outlined. We know him, too. There were questions in plenary after the one-sided petition. The person concerned was released because he could not heal in captivity. However, he must serve a sentence until 2027. As a lawyer, I'm slowly losing my pedals. This is hallucinating to me. We have shown our indignation in the Chamber and in Parliament. You said there would be third-party resistance, but in the meantime, he was a free man. We heard from the media that he mainly wanted peace and quiet. The third-party move is here. The verdict is here. The judge confirms the acquittal. I don't understand. What steps will you take? Is that what you're gonna do? I'm interested in the court's motivation to confirm that release. What argument is used? People don't just get jail time. If everyone starts like this, the dam's fence. This is going to set a great precedent. A unilateral petition will circumvent the criminal court, circumvent procedures and obtain the release. It's up to the next one to go on a hunger strike and push it this far. Something must be done to ensure that the criminal court is no longer put out of play and, above all, that this precedent cannot be re-established. In the meantime, Minister, are there any other procedures? Maybe you'll know by now. We need to close that back door in the law. If I were a convict, I'd look for it, too, and say I can't heal in jail, knowing I'd have to sit there for another 10 years. I understand that. Either I lost the pedals, or the pedals are lost in the Justice Department. I hope you can give me an answer and perhaps clarify the motivation. I know that you will consider, in your potpourri legislation or later, how the one-sided petition can rule out such matters, but I hope you will give me some reassurance in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u49	The Court of First Instance unilaterally ruled on 30 November 2014 that Farid Bamouhammad should be exempted as a matter of urgency under Article 3 of the ECHR. The judge ruled that detention involved inhuman treatment for the person concerned, in view of his state of health. The transfer to a hospital outside the prison with the use of security personnel, as decided by me on 29 November 2014, was not enough for the judge. The Belgian State immediately signed third-party proceedings. The decision was confirmed by the same judge on 16 January 2015 following a contradictory debate. The reading of the two judgments does not make me decide that conditions were imposed. The court ruled only that the person concerned should be exempted in order to allow him to undergo the appropriate treatment in a civilian hospital of his choice and subsequently in a health care structure designated by his doctors. No time limits were set for the duration of the exemption, nor was a medical evaluation or re-evaluation foreseen. I have instructed the lawyer of the Belgian State to appeal. At the time of the first decision, Articles 72 to 80 of the Law on the External Status of Convicts of 17 May 2006 had not yet entered into force. In its first decision, the court referred to the non-entry into force of those provisions. However, at the time of the meeting on 13 January 2015, the provisions had entered into force. However, the judge confirmed his order. I have no knowledge of other unilateral petitions. I believe that the new provisions in force apply to the present case. In this new regulation, the Public Prosecutor can take the criminal execution judge in order to withdraw the exemption.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u50	So, Minister, I understand that, on the one hand, the SURB will be taken to bring the person concerned back to prison or that this suggestion will be made? No? There's nothing you can do about it. However, you are in any case appealing against the decision currently in place. Article 72 of the Law on external legal status shall in any event apply. I'll put it this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u51	Minister, I believe that we will have to wait for the appeal judgment to see whether there should be effective adjustments to our internal legislation or to the execution of the sentence. We already know that a number of adjustments need to be made. This has to do with infrastructure and so on. They're working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u52	Minister, I am not quite reassured yet. I think we should close that back door so it can't go down that road anymore. For the new cases that are in operation, we are still dependent on the prosecution that can do this. I assume they will, or I hope they will. How this will work, with perhaps two different decisions which need to be examined which prevails on the other, is another matter. That's probably where we left for another legal battle. I'd like to take a look at that. What strikes me, however, is that it is now said that he should be taken care of, whether or not in a hospital, because we have already had that. He was taken to a hospital first. He couldn't heal in prison, but he was damn quickly healed in the hospital. It only took five days and he could walk outside as a free man. I'm incredibly worried about it. I'm counting on us from here to do everything we can. I know sitting in a cell is no fun, in one prison even less than in the other. However, sentences and convictions and a rule of law are still expected to be enforced and not circumvented, and the legislator does not allow them to be circumvented. So I'm really counting on your potpourri or whatever to fix that asap. That may not work anymore for this case but for all the others who could have the bright idea to follow this example.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u53	Minister, my question is relatively simple and not devoid of interest, since you will have the non-obvious task of implementing the agreements made under the previous legislature with regard to the reform of the judicial landscape. Indeed, I wonder about the fate of the alternate judges. At present, and as is customary in the Judicial Order, judges can take their pension at 67 years of age. Depending on the needs of the judicial district to which they were attached, they may, once retired, replace one of their active colleagues. Judges taking their pre-pension would therefore not have the opportunity, which is truly deplorable in that they are available and there is a regular lack of judges. I'm told that statutoryly, it's not possible to call them to the rescue. What is the reason? What solution do you recommend?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u54	Mrs Jadin, I am considering an amendment to Article 383 of the Judicial Code in order to allow judges who retire before the legal age set out in paragraph 1 to be appointed as alternate judges on the same basis as judges who cease to hold office at 67 years of age. I believe that, with regard to one-off benefits, it would be a shame to deprive ourselves of the help of people who have made the choice to leave the Judicial Order in anticipation, because they no longer feel the strength to work full time, but who are nevertheless willing to lend a hand to the Judicial Order. The travaux préparatoires of the Act of 17 July 1984 containing certain measures designed to reduce the backlog of cases, already mentioned that the term "retired by reason of age" also refers to judges who, from a certain age, terminate their careers on the basis of the Act of 5 August 1978. Article 383, paragraph 3, which was intended to avoid problems of precedence, since the legislator did not wish, for psychological reasons, that a head of the corps who had reached the age limit could retain an activity within the jurisdiction or prosecutor's office of which he or she had the management, could also be repealed. As soon as a Chief of Staff may, at the end of his or her term of office, reinstate a position in the jurisdiction or prosecutor's office of which he or she had the management, this provision is no longer justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u55	Minister, thank you. You haven't known me in a long time, I'm not a very flattering person. I was not aware of the answer you were going to give me, but it is very much up to my expectations. I am thinking above all of those who would still be willing to provide for the continuity of the FPS Justice. I will be pleased to communicate this positive and encouraging response to those who have expressed grievances to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u56	Minister, almost three years ago, in Parliament, we passed the law on temporary house bans in the event of domestic violence. Basically, the King's Attorney can order a restraining order in cases of intra-family violence. Following a written question on the subject, I received a number of figures from you and it showed that, from January 2013 to half last year, the procedure was only used 47 times. The figures also show the great difference between the districts: some have used the procedure once to twice, others up to twenty times, which, as was your answer, suggested that the coding guidelines for the input of data would not have been followed strictly everywhere. I believe, Minister, that we all agree that domestic violence must be played briefly and that we must be able to act quickly and efficiently. The contacts I had with a number of public prosecutors show that, even in cases of flagrant domestic violence, they make little or no use of the legal possibility of a temporary ban on housekeeping. Is the low number of files due to non-compliance with coding rules or do you think there are other factors? Is the measure perhaps too little known to the public prosecutors? Are you planning any initiatives to remedy this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u57	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, the law of 15 May 2012 indeed introduced a procedure allowing the King's Attorney to impose a house and contact ban on a adult person whose presence constitutes a serious and immediate danger to the other roommates in the event of domestic violence. It was the legislator's intention to allow the King's Attorney to introduce a security period in which domestic violence stops. During that period, the parties concerned could reflect on their future and, if necessary, initiate civil proceedings to reach a final solution. The procedure provides that the case is to be dealt with within 10 days by the family court, which may lift or extend the measure. In this context, the family court can also deal with civil claims. It was also intended that, in the intervening period, the victim could receive appropriate assistance and that route guidance could be initiated with the offender. The route guidance should give the perpetrator better insights, including about the consequences of his or her violent behavior. The figures, which I gave you in the context of a previous written question, do indeed seem to indicate that the instrument is not being applied very much in practice. The statistical analysts have expressed the suspicion that the coding directives in this area are not being followed closely. It is therefore perhaps premature to draw conclusions from the figures. There are several possible causes, if the figures are correct. Firstly, the procedure followed by the co-location procedure and accompanied by a large number of administrative obligations, which must be done within a very short period of time, seems relatively complex. In practice, the police services that arrive after the call must also quickly assess the security risk and the opportunity for the prosecutor to impose the measure. This raises the question of the immediate availability of resources and framework for the support of victims, for measures against the offender and for monitoring compliance with the home and contact ban. What happens if the unsub can't find an alternative whereabouts? The guidelines of the College of Attorneys General on the house ban, which is circular 18/2012, clearly state that the workload of police and public prosecutors should not be increased and that it is therefore not their job to seek a place of residence for the removal. The Directive also provides for an evaluation of the application of the ban to improve and refine legislation and the Directive. I will ask the College of Attorneys General to review the law and the directive in order to clarify the causes of a limited application where appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and for your announcement that you would like to request an evaluation. I can confirm what you have just said. The aim is to introduce a security period and, in the meantime, to allow the victim to take the step to the family court himself. I know of a case where the perpetrator of intra-family violence had to be removed as a matter of urgency. The parquet didn't move. The result was that the victim, being the mother, with her children temporarily left the house. She wasn't able to return until after we got a verdict from the family court two or three weeks later, stating that the perpetrator had to leave. On the basis of my concern and supported by experience in the field, I believe that an evaluation will be very useful. Then we can see whether it needs to be adapted, knowing that we all here in the house wanted to provide a means of protecting victims of intra-family violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u59	Question No 1543 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u60	Mr Minister, yesterday we read in the newspaper that the future of the Veurne court would be threatened. Although the President of the West Flemish Court states that there are no concrete plans yet, the abolition of the Veurn court is a reflection on savings. In particular, the high rental price of the building, which would be around 1.2 million euros per year without electricity and heating costs, seems to play a part in this. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you this today. Can you confirm the news that the abolition of the Veurns court is a real thinker? What is the deadline for a decision on this matter? When does the lease of that building run until? Is it true that the possible abolition or slimming is planned for 2017? What will be the consequences for the staff? How can any decision in this respect be consistent with the announcement when the judicial landscape is rewritten that the seats would in any case be retained?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u61	Minister, I have a question in the same sentence. Yesterday there was indeed some fuss in West Flanders because plans had been leaked about the abolition of the courthouse in Veurne. Possibly there would be other rearrangements in the judicial landscape in West Flanders. I understand that mainly financial reasons would be at the basis of that decision. However, judicial reform was always based on the principle of proximity to justice. When we talk about court buildings in West Flanders, I immediately thought of the questions I asked several times to Minister De Clerck, one of your predecessors, about the new court palace in Kortrijk and the costs involved. Mr Minister, that is why I have a few questions. First, do you confirm that there are plans to shut down Veurne's court and transfer all its departments to the Bruges courthouse? If so, when is this implementation foreseen? Secondly, does that mean that Veurne's peace court should disappear? Thirdly, does such a decision, if any, not run counter to the principle that justice should be close? Fourthly, are only financial savings reasons at the basis of this possible decision? In that context, will the plans be maintained to set up a completely new courthouse in Kortrijk, and the other building, we call that building 1..... to give a completely new destination? Are there any other courts in Belgium where such plans would be under way for the same reasons?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u62	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu and Mr Degroote, in your question, you refer to the President's reply that there are no concrete plans yet, but that this is a thinking path. The question of viewing this has indeed come from the local magistrate and has recently reached me. It is logical that such ideas should be put on the table and that this should be considered, but to answer your questions regarding details and timing it is too early. You know that the federal government is facing a difficult task, in particular making the necessary savings while maintaining the proper performance of the core tasks. The search for efficiency gains and the creation of a new way of thinking about the use of resources, with respect for continuity, is, I hope, not surprising to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for this reply, confirming that it is about a thinking path and that there is nothing concrete yet. I had also asked the question as to when the lease of the building was to run. I don't know if you got that information or if the rental price is right. Can you still deliver that information in writing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u64	Sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'd like to give you three elements for the further treatment of that thinking path. Firstly, local authorities from the area have, of course, heard that news. Some local authorities, such as Koksijde, are prepared, in the interests of continuity, to help find solutions and thus to provide premises that would cost less than the current costs of EUR 1.2 million per year. I would therefore like, in the further course of that thought track, to involve the municipal authorities, whatever they may ask. Secondly, my colleague was right to ask about the remaining rental period. Why? This case is similar to that of the RAC. Because suddenly the rifle changes its shoulder. A new building is being selected and it appears that the remaining rental period is not being taken into account, but the amount to be paid for it has to continue for a number of years. This is a very important element that should be considered in a subsequent decision. It is pointless to make that decision early if we still have to pay for a number of years. This is a very important element, which must be taken into account. Thirdly, as far as efficiency gains are concerned, we are on the same wavelength. That is not the problem, but I must say that in Kortrijk, for example, we now have two courthouses, an old one and a new one. One would suppress the first and give a completely different destination to place a completely new third building. There are huge differences of opinion in that region. This would also cost a great deal, while the redesign of the first building would make it possible to achieve efficiency gains. I would ask you to take these three elements into account for West Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u66	Minister, on 23 June 2003, the European Union adopted a common position on the control of arms brokering activities. In essence, this common position establishes "a clear legal framework to control brokering and to avoid circumvention of arms export embargoes imposed by the United Nations, the European Union or the OSCE, as well as the criteria set out in the European Union Code of Conduct on Arms Exports". It contains minimum mandatory provisions, which each State must comply with. In summary, Member States are obliged to define brokering, monitor brokering activities in their territory and establish a licensing system. The Peace and Security Research and Information Group and Vlaams Vredesinstituut analysed European legislation and practices in general and in Belgium in particular in the light of the reports published by the United Nations Programme of Action on Small Arms and Light Weapons. The two institutes realized that Belgium had not complied with all the criteria imposed by the common position on brokering in the last eleven years. Brokerage activities are regulated by the Act of 25 March 2003 on the Importation, Exportation, Transit of Arms and Brokerage. The law has been regionalized for import and export aspects, but the federal state remains competent for brokering, which does not without creating some confusion. The current federal regulation is paradoxical: while it formally authorizes the control of brokers, in practice, it does not allow effective control of their activities. In order to operate as a broker in Belgium, any candidate must be approved. However, once the approval has been obtained, the broker must no longer obtain a licence for his future activities in Belgium, for example the transfer of arms between third countries! Consequently, Belgium has no effective control over brokering activities carried out abroad but from Belgian territory. In the current context, this seems to me to be a matter of great concern. Mr Minister, according to the common position, Belgium must establish a licensing system that controls brokering activities a priori and a posteriori in order to bring our national legislation into line with this position. When do you finally intend to adapt Belgian legislation, in what way and according to what timetable? Your predecessor committed to moving forward on this issue in response to one of my questions in the Senate almost two years ago. I don't think this has progressed since then, but maybe you'll tell us the opposite. Could you specify the number of arms brokers currently licensed in Belgium? Does the Belgian Government intend to take advantage of any amendment to the law to publish annually the list of authorised brokers, as is already the case in Bulgaria, Estonia and Hungary? Are you planning to generalize in all extradition agreements clauses allowing for the transfer of perpetrators charged with breaches of Belgian brokering legislation to partner countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u67	Mr President, Mr Hellings, formally we have an a priori control system, as you mentioned in your introduction, but it should be able to be made more effective. My administration has long been looking for a solution to allow good a priori control and a posteriori control, but such a solution is particularly difficult to find. For example, informal discussions with the administrations of several neighbouring countries have also indicated that they have not found an effective system to date. I recall the explanation given by my predecessor: since brokers have no difficulty in carrying out their business illegally and anonymously, they have no interest in making themselves known, which is, however, the sine qua non condition under a system of prior licences. Pre-licensing is in turn a sine qua non for post-clearance control, since the arms transferred do not pass through Belgian territory. To my knowledge, no other country seems to have a better system. As for your second question, at this time, there are fewer than five licensed brokers, and again, they are regular armorers who actually need a licence to carry on their business, who conduct a transaction as a broker from time to time. Publishing the list now would not make much sense, but it is possible to do so as soon as it is possible to force unknown brokers to declare themselves. Lastly, it was not envisaged that all extradition agreements would include provisions allowing for the transfer to partner countries of perpetrators charged with offences under Belgian law relating to brokering, since that was not necessary. When the representatives of the Belgian Government negotiate extradition agreements, they do not cover particular offences or a list of offences, but any act constituting an offence of any kind, in the light of the respective laws of the two parties, provided that the offence is punishable, in the event of extradition for the purpose of prosecution, by deprivation of liberty, up to a maximum of one year or in the event of extradition for the purpose of execution of a sentence, if the person to be extradited has been sentenced to deprivation of liberty for at least one year and is still to be imprisoned for at least six months at the time of receipt of the request for extradition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u68	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. If I understand correctly, it is difficult to find an effective broker control system elsewhere in Europe. In preparing this question, however, I remember having had examples abroad. I will therefore come back to you with other questions to determine whether it is not possible to draw on other examples, in particular Bulgaria, Estonia and Hungary. If they do, we could, too. Let us not forget that, in the subject before us and which will occupy several of our committees within a few minutes, namely the fight against terrorism, the issue of arms trafficking seems crucial and is at the heart of many problems, here in Belgium but also with partner countries such as France. It is therefore more than urgent to tighten the screw with regard to the sale of weapons, even if it is legal. It is time to consider a lasting solution to this problem, which has lasted for too many years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u69	Mr President, Minister, foster parents have long been promised a statute for them. This promise is already in the coalition agreement. At the beginning of November 2014, you were already questioned about this in plenary. In your reply you pointed out the need for consultation with the Communities, which are responsible for certain aspects. That is true, because in 2008 the Council of State stated that the federal government is responsible for drawing up the statute, but that it does not introduce youth protection measures, nor does it regulate assistance to be provided to young people and their families in the context of youth protection assistance, which falls within the competence of the Communities. Unfortunately, we have to note that this consultation has been ongoing for years without any progress being made. I think it would be good to move a gear higher in the consultation. I have already raised many parliamentary questions on this subject and I note that, on the one hand, there is the approach of the Communities, which do not want rights of custody for foster parents and, on the other hand, the federal vision which is in line with what is demanded by the foster parents, in particular the granting of certain rights to them, in addition to the many duties. This difference in approach is perhaps the reason for the fact that there has not yet been a tranche and no concrete results have been achieved. Mr President-in-Office, what is the state of play in the discussions with the Communities? Is there a timing worked out? What is your view on the elaboration of the statute promised in the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u70	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, I share your concern about the need to make progress on this dossier. As I mentioned earlier and as you rightly point out, there is a need for consultation with the Communities in order to draw up a statute for foster parents, precisely because part of the responsibility for the organization and supervision of foster care belongs to the Communities. A legal statute for foster parents should be drawn up in consultation with the Communities. The intention is therefore to sit with the Communities in the reasonably short term. I do indeed wish to present a draft law on this matter to Parliament by the end of this year. As far as your second question is concerned, I have already indicated in my policy statement that I believe that there is a need for a full civil statute for foster parents. Today there is no statute for foster parents, although they take care of and care for children. They are therefore often confronted with stumbling blocks, which disturb the normal family life of the child in the foster family and are a source of concern. The status should be tailored, taking into account the primary responsibility of parents and the role of foster parents in the child's life. Depending on the specific circumstances, such as the duration and possibilities of return, and the needs, the foster parents should be able to obtain powers. The Staff Regulations should take account of the diversity of foster care, including foster care organised by the Communities. At the same time, I intend to modernise the legal figure of the foster guardianship.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u71	Mr Minister, thank you for your reply, which sets out the timing by the end of 2015 and explains what the statute should look like. A number of legislative proposals on the subject have been prepared in Parliament since several legislative times. I look forward to the debate on this, in the interests of the foster parents. We must cherish them, because there are too few of them all the time. I hope that the statute will perhaps increase the number of foster parents, but even more so that we can express our respect and appreciation for all those who are committed in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u72	Minister, since 1 September 2014, the Family and Youth Court, established by the Act of 30 July 2013, has jurisdiction over all family disputes. The creation of this new section dedicated to this dispute within the Court of First Instance was intended to put an end to the dispersal of powers relating to family matters. Since the entry into office of the Family and Youth Court, a point of law seems to be problematic: the determination of the court competent to hear appeals from a decision of the justice of the peace filed after 1 September 2014. Minister, do you confirm that there is currently uncertainty as to the determination of the court competent to hear appeals from a decision of the justice of the peace made after September 1, 2014 in family matters? To your knowledge, have the courts decided this question of law? What is currently the dominant practice? Are you considering taking steps to remedy this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u73	Mr President, the transitional provisions of the Act of 30 July 2013 establishing a family and youth court do not explicitly resolve the question raised. Reference should therefore be made to the ordinary law of the proceedings, in particular article 3 of the Judicial Code, which states that "the laws of judicial organization, jurisdiction and procedure shall apply to the proceedings in progress, without however disqualification from the court which, to its degree, was validly seized of them and except for the exceptions provided for by law". As the doctrine points out, article 3 contains a principle and an exception. The principle is the immediate application of the new law, not only to future trials, but also to the future effects of ongoing trials. The exception is, however, that there will be no divestiture of the court which, to its degree, was validly seized of the dispute. This exception and immediate application therefore only apply to the level of jurisdiction at which one is located. Thus, a judge of the first instance duly seized remains competent, but the appeal judge will be the judge of the newly appointed judge as competent. Various authors argue that the law that indicates which jurisdiction to appeal is the law in force on the day on which the appeal is filed. A judgment of the Court of Cassation of 3 February 1972 on an appeal brought after the entry into force of the Judicial Code against a judgement handed down by a justice of the peace before it concerning an application for compensation for damage suffered as a result of an accident at work is invoked in this respect. Other authors consider, however, that for the determination of the competent appellate judge, article 3 above requires reference to the law applicable on the day of delivery of the judgement appealed from. The judgments of the Court of Cassation stating that, in the event of an amendment to the law on remedies, the rules in force on the day of the decision which govern the remedies against it are invoked to that effect. However, it is noted by other authors that this is not an amendment to the law on remedies, but an amendment to the rules of jurisdiction. It is also noted that this approach would run counter to the principle that the exception provided for in article 3 of the Judicial Code is valid only if the former competent court has already been brought before it. There is therefore a divergence of approach in the doctrine on this issue, but it is not possible, at this stage, to ascertain whether this divergence is reflected in the case law. In any case, it seems that the judgments of the Court of Cassation invoked by the two different doctrinal approaches actually deal with separate issues. It is not for the executive power to interpret the law, but, on the other hand, pursuant to section 273 of the Act of 30 July 2013, an assessment of the application of the law will be carried out by the Minister of Justice and the Minister with the family in his powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u74	Minister, thank you. We look forward to this assessment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u75	Mr Minister, the police officers in the Brussels-Ixelles area, attached to the security of the Palais de Justice in Brussels, did not carry out their mission on Thursday 8 January because of the attack in Paris the previous day, according to a statement by Karin Gerard, President of the Brussels Court of Assizes. This, of course, raises questions. Mr Minister, what do you know about these stoppages by police and security officers in the Brussels courthouse on Fridays? As my question has been postponed, it is less topical. How is security organised in the Brussels courthouse? What tasks are assigned to police and security officers? What are the modalities of their cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u76	Mr Goffin, security on the premises of justice is of course a priority. However, I would like to point out that there is indeed a security policy for courthouses based on the following idea. The concept of security in and around justice buildings is being developed on the basis of an ongoing risk analysis increasingly based on the integration of three fundamental elements, namely, the organization, configuration of the building and electronic equipment, each of which is adapted to a judicious level commensurate with the risks. As for the building configuration and electronic security, the description of all these measures is included in a set of documents kept at the courthouse and written by the Infrastructure Directorate of the DGOJ. A distinction is made between the major courthouses, the justices of the peace and the warehouses reserved for the storage of exhibits. The documents systematically provide the general directive and the specific features of a security plan for designers, architects and engineering firms as part of a construction or renovation project. It also describes the topology of the building and its security facilities. As for the organization, the role of the police in courthouses is to maintain law and order in courts and to supervise detainees when they appear before the judicial authorities. Access and movement of cells, which are necessary to accompany and keep detainees in a safe and responsible manner, are monitored and monitored during their presence by the police. In normal circumstances, therefore, the police must not provide custody of the building or a permanent presence in the courtrooms. This role has been assigned to the local police as part of the reform of the police. The Royal Decree of 11 July 2003 also established the security corps, whose members are dependent on the judiciary and are not part of the police services. Within the Justice FPS, the Directorate-General for Penitentiaries (DG EPI) is responsible for the security corps, not the judicial organization. Security officers are responsible for the transfer and follow-up of detainees and the transfer of judicial records for the exercise of the right of access. However, the police continue to be competent and supervised. In addition, a second group of security personnel was created in 2005, with a distinct role and status for the judicial organisation itself – collaborators for supervision and management. In general, it is necessary to distinguish between the main tasks assigned to this group of employees in courts and tribunals: the reception and relationship with the public, the supervision of the building and its dependencies - in particular the accesses and corridors separating the various compartments - the monitoring of the public space and the traffic in the waiting room, the monitoring of the proper functioning and use of safety equipment, the control of safety installations, the treatment of alarms and their adequate response and, finally, the appropriate response to crisis situations – fire, burglary or theft. The use of an ad hoc scanning corridor is planned on the basis of threat and risk assessment through specific procedures. The police and the security forces take care of their organization under special circumstances. The only exception in this respect is the Brussels courthouse (P1). The situation in Brussels is specific. Indeed, given the presence of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, which is confronted with a concentration of the framework of terrorism and is constantly increasing, the suspects in these cases are brought before the Chamber of Counsel, the Chamber of Indictments of Brussels, precisely in the courthouse. The same situation arises in any substantive trials. There was indeed a problem with the security of the Brussels courthouse. More specifically, the Brussels-Capital Police Chief - Ixelles requested that his police officers take protective measures following the incidents in recent months. In this context, the police services of the Brussels courthouse have had to relocate their services to our building. Upon learning of this situation, the security officers no longer felt protected and marked a stoppage of work. In order to unblock the situation, the decision was taken to go through further controls at the entrances. This led to an immediate resumption of the work of both the security forces and the police. Meanwhile the events of Verviers have occurred. The level of threat has been increased to 3, which has led to an increased deployment of the police. In the meantime, the necessary steps have been taken to launch a new dialogue with all relevant stakeholders. The aim is to reach a consensus on how to work, a structural solution in which all parties, the police and the security forces, can find themselves. The security measures currently in place in many courthouses are therefore adapted one after the other to the current exceptional situation at level 3 of the threat and consist mainly of the acquired deployment of police services and even to certain locations of military personnel. These measures will be assessed once the MACO has decided to review the level of threat downwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u77	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic064x.u78	The question of No 1446 Mr Alain Mathot falls.
