ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u1	Madam President, Minister, in an earlier statement you said: "In 2015, it was already 40 years since the first female soldiers joined the Defence Department. Anno 2014 women can be found in all kinds of functions and degrees. However, it appears that the recruitment of female staff does not increase significantly. The army must reflect society, gender and diversity. Therefore, targeted recruitment campaigns will better inform these target groups about their career opportunities and working conditions within Defence." 40 years after the entry of the first ladies into the army, barely two women have reached the top, in the degree of general. One of them is brigade general, which is only an appointment and not an appointment. Soon the only appointed female general will even retire. If women cannot break the glass ceiling, it is not surprising that women are not attracted to the army. Better information through targeted campaigns is certainly a positive effort, but the problem with the top positions continues to arise and will need to be addressed fundamentally so that these top positions can also be filled by women. What additional efforts will you make to give women access to the highest degrees, especially those of general?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u2	Mr Minister, my question is a little more general. For me, it's not just about the top positions. Apparently, the glass ceiling in the army is made of bulletproof glass. It is therefore very difficult to move on to the summit, but women are also under-represented in the other positions. A hearing last week showed that. According to General Grosdent, 11 percent of women would be officers, 6.6 percent petty officer and 7 percent soldier or sailor. In your policy statement, you referred to a specific recruitment policy for women in order to achieve gender equality. That gender equality, according to your policy statement, will better reflect the current relationships in society and fit within the policies of diversity and equal opportunities. Given the current budgetary situation, do you see any possibility of specific measures to allow more women to enter the Belgian armed forces? Have you set targets? If so, which one and what is its timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u3	Madam President, Mr Top, Mrs Hufkens, I would like to introduce a number of nuances, which will not change the figures, but may change the perception. First of all, it is true that two ladies now have either the degree of Brig-Gen or General. However, one citizen has also been treated as a general, i.e. at the highest level in the classification of citizens. I would add that the three ladies are part of the so-called CODIR, the Management Committee, a decision-making body of the Staff. Efforts are therefore being made to involve women in the policy. Gender policy generally represents a framework for diversity policy in the defence sector, and the main thrust of that policy is a ban on discrimination of any kind. This means that equal opportunities policies are pursued and that no distinction is made between men and women in the field of promotions. During recruitment, all places are open to men and women. The selection is based on their competences. Defence therefore deliberately does not impose quotas or targets in the relationship between men and women, but strictly respects equal opportunities policies while at the same time ensuring that trials are gender-neutral. We note, however, that the figures for the number of women who want to join the defence force depend heavily on the workforce. Before the recruitment of 2014, there were a total of 17.4 % women among officers, 7.8 % among Petty Officers and 6% among volunteers. Those lower figures for the staff categories of the Petty Officers and the Volunteers are probably linked to the type of functions for which they are recruited, i.e. typically operational functions. We must limit recruitment this year, which will mean that we will recruit even more for purely operational jobs, which will make it difficult to increase the number of women in recruitment. As regards promotions, at the beginning of the career, promotions shall be granted on the basis of seniority, except where the person concerned is not considered fit to perform the functions of the higher degree or where the manner of service is considered unsatisfactory. At a later stage, a recommendation by a promotion committee, including promotions in general grades, will be promoted. Such a committee compares the applications for promotions on a completely equal basis, whether men or women. The recommendation for promotion is based on a motivated classification based on the personal file and the professional and behavioural competences of each candidate. In view of the number of women recruited by the officers and the fact that promotions in the higher degrees are based on a complete policy of equal opportunities, I believe that at that level, i.e. in the field of promotions, no specific measures should be developed to improve the flow to the top positions. I do believe, however, that a number of measures can be taken at the base of recruitment. These are currently being worked out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u4	Minister, I have to say that there are very few ladies in the highest degrees. A further remark is that it would be very bad if there were no prohibition of discrimination. You say that you do not impose quotas, but you do respect the rules, and I can understand that. However, you also say that in the case of influxes, applications or vacant places, 17 percent of women apply to the officers, but I still note that there is no flow. The question still arises as to how to ensure, in a structural way, that women are included in the higher positions. You said that appointment in the higher degrees is done by means of a recommendation by the Promotion Committee. Well, perhaps the task is precisely to ensure that ladies are given the opportunity to be better prepared for the recommendation by the Promotion Committee and to have a better structure to reach those higher grades. So there is still a lot of work to be done to get ladies to the highest level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u5	Minister, I am pleased that you say that you will certainly not impose quotas, because that is the last thing women need. Women are competent enough to come to the army, but they must of course find their way and feel like doing it. I'm glad you're taking measures to get them there faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u6	Madam President, my head of the cabinet has given me a little additional information. We are talking about the first ladies in the army. If we look at the first promotion of ladies at the KMS in 1978, we see that five of them are left with the Defense Department and one of those five today has the degree of general. My head of the cabinet also reminds me that all generals are older than him and that he was promoted to the KMS in 1978. So we have the law of the small numbers, there are not many, one can argue and say that there are too many, but there are not many. Before they have an impact, the career is over. From my point of view, I can say that in the field of gender equality, efforts are being made at the Ministry of Defence. However, positive discrimination is something else. The problem is, of course, also at the source, in the sense that we must succeed in attracting more ladies, which is not obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u7	Madam President, Minister, during the debate in committee on your budget and the general policy note, a number of questions remained unanswered, including those I asked you about the linguistic balance in the army. Thus, your policy note states that you will take into account the recommendations of the Parliamentary Working Group on Linguistic Balance. This sentence seems to me to be even weaker than that of the government agreement which spoke of "seeking to achieve" these. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. What are you really going to do about the various recommendations? In particular, what do you think about the search for equivalence between the Defence Language Centre and the Selor or the strengthening of the learning of both national languages in an immersive manner? What is your time frame for taking these recommendations into account? Do you intend to take proactive steps to respect the language distribution contained in these recommendations for all Defence ranks? Finally, do you intend to comply with section 32 of the Act of 30 July 1938 concerning the use of languages in the army, which provides that every year the Minister of Defence shall submit a report on the application of this Act to the office of the legislative chambers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u8	Madam President, Minister, Mr Pirlot has just referred to the context. It is true that at one time there was a more obvious will on the benches of the majority to assert itself in this dossier. There was even a certain consensus between French-speaking parties to demand the real restoration of balance within the army. We're still very far from it. I am somewhat tired of hearing commitments that are not being fulfilled. That is why I would like to have a clear commitment to the balance that you are going to achieve over the next two years. Do you accept the principle of parity among the general officers? Moreover, I have tabled a bill to that effect. When linguistic imbalances were once found in diplomacy – in this case, to the detriment of Flemish representation, the Fayat law was passed. It required a rapid procedure for the promotion of diplomats under the Dutch language regime in order to restore balance at the top of Belgian diplomacy. Maybe it's time to show the same will for the army. I have therefore tabled a text to that effect. It is not enough to establish parity within the General Officer Corps. Indeed, the proportion 60-40 is far from being reached, even among officers of lower rank. Therefore, I would like to know what concrete steps you are going to take to finally establish the balance required by the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall reply first of all to the figures. I'm going to say it in Dutch. As far as the figures quoted are concerned, I would recommend to the authors that they look at the real figures which I have already mentioned on several occasions in response to various written questions on the subject. Currently, at the general level, there are 63% Dutch speakers and 37% French speakers, which is very close to 60-40. My policy note does state that I will take into account the recommendations of the working group adopted by Parliament in May 2013. It should be noted that some of these recommendations have a significant cost. I am thinking, for example, of aligning the language allowances awarded to members with those awarded in the public service. In my presentation of the 2015 budget, I made it clear that, in order to achieve the budgetary objective, it was decided to maintain the appropriations for staff remuneration in full, but that a reduction in recruitment was necessary, and that there would no longer be any appropriations available for new initiatives. A measure such as better interaction or equivalence, with the Selor, is studied in more detail, knowing that for the time being the Selor and Defence examinations measure really different knowledge. The legal requirement will be respected with regard to the filing on the office of the legislative chambers of the report on the application of the law of 30 July 1938 concerning the use of languages in the army. Finally, I would like to conclude by stating that, although this is a measure with a budgetary impact, but given that it is limited, I have had the administrative and budgetary control procedure reactivated for the order authorizing the granting of the linguistic bonus irrespective of the place of work of the persons concerned, as suggested by the working group. This is a proposal from the House working group. The latter suggested what I am going to do, in this case, to sink this into a decree. The agreement on the budget has been reached. The draft was sent for advice to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u10	I thank the minister for his answers. The request for language bonuses was not from my group; it was a request from the MR at the time. In addition, a bill has been tabled by my group. It concerns linguistic balance and is obviously open to co-signatures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u11	Minister, in two things one: either you accept the legal obligation by amending the law, which will at least have the merit of setting things out clearly; or you undertake that as long as the linguistic balances in favour of French-speaking officers are not restored, there will be no promotion to higher ranks of Dutch language officers. These are the two ways for you. As long as the imbalance remains as clear, and we will ask for details by level - general officers, senior officers, officers - there is no reason to accept that this situation persists.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u12	Madam President, Minister, during the committee discussion on your budget and your general policy note on War Victims, we were able to learn more about an interesting and discreet initiative on the part of the Directorate-General, namely the digitization of archives. We have been told that a virtual exhibition on the 1914-1918 war is being edited and that 240,000 files of civilian casualties have been coded. The exhibition would be available on a website as early as June 2015. Minister, can you tell us more about your policy of digitizing the archives of wars and their victims? Is this project limited to the 1914-1918 war? Why, like France, is more "publicity" about this very interesting initiative not achieved, both vis-à-vis the general public and public authorities like the municipalities? During the budget discussions, we were informed that the Directorate-General has a budget of EUR 5 000 for this digitalisation project. Is this a realistic budget for such a project? We also learned that you were looking for a budget for the posting of records of the deportations of the Jews. Where are you on this point?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u13	Madam President, Mr.Senesael, the SPF's Victims of War Branch Social Security manages a total of more than 13 kilometres of archives. Therefore, the computerization that began in the 1990s, and which relates well to the archives of the two world wars, is, as you may know, a very long-term work. Given the size of the archival holdings and the limited staff and budgetary resources, the DG had to make computerization choices. Priority was given to funds of major historical interest, for example, the file of the persecution and deportation of Jews and Gypsies of Belgium and to funds whose information brought real added value to the DG by enabling it to render a better service to citizens. The projects were described by the DG itself, whether in annual reports, published on its website, or in electronic newsletters, published on the website. This information is sent to the interested target audience, which is kept informed of the work of the Directorate-General. My archival policy is therefore to support the DG's efforts so that it can carry out the ongoing digitalisation project. As far as the 1914-1918 war was concerned, since the encoding of the 240,000 records relating to civilian casualties was still under way, the Directorate-General hoping to finalize it for the month of June, it seemed premature to advertise the project. It goes without saying that when the encoding is completed and the virtual exhibition is carried out, all the necessary publicity will be given to this work of ant that is currently going on in the shadows. When in the course of the budgetary discussions a budget of EUR 5 000 was mentioned, this was an allusion to the subsidies which the DG received from the Office of the Commissioner-General for the Commemoration of the First World War, for the draft website. This subsidy will, of course, be supplemented with funds from the Directorate-General's own budget so that this project can be completed. With regard to the records of the persecution and deportation of the Jews and Gypsies of Belgium, the file is fully digitized but quality control is under way. Some documents are rescanned for readability issues and the database is being improved to allow sorting. As for the posting of the file, it was initially to be carried out as part of a collaboration between DG and the Caserne Dossin Museum in Malines. As the collaboration project has not so far been successful, the Directorate-General for Information Technology of the Social Security FPS will examine whether it is possible to put the data online.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u14	Madam President, I would like to sincerely thank the Minister for the completeness and quality of his response. It takes up all the questions asked. I would just like to invite the Minister and the Branch to ensure that advertising can be done when all the cards are available in the virtual exhibition. It's a really interesting project that can have a very positive citizen impact. I thank you for the quality of the work done.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u15	Madam Chair, Minister, this is not a recent issue. I would like to ask you about the future of the military base in Florennes. Some time ago, the press announced that Defence was going to have to make savings that could result in the loss of one third of the staff and the closure of several barracks. Some experts also refer to the closure of an air base: Florennes or Beauvechain. Currently, the 2nd Wing Tactical in Florennes is home to just over 1,000 military personnel and 30 F-16 combat aircraft divided into two squadrons. The closure of the Florennes base would obviously be an economic disaster for this particular area and for the province of Namur in general. Apart from the economic aspect which I do not explain here, the Florennes base is full of innumerable military assets, of which here are some examples: infrastructure in very good condition and immediately available, impeccable tracks, very large spaces, control tower in excellent condition, presence of tanks on the runway, housing capacity of about 500 beds on the site, air space located without hindrance with the flow of the planes of the airports of Charleroi and Zaventem, rural area which has much more facilities for the airspace, transport of ammunition easy through roads very accessible with few dwellings to reach the main motorways, etc. As you can see, there are many arguments in favour of maintaining the Florennes base. Mr Minister, is it true, as the press has announced, that a new savings plan provides for the closure of the base or the reduction of the military presence in Florennes? If not, can you assure me of the future of this base in the longer term?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u16	Madam President, Minister, I share the concern of the majority who has just spoken. The Florennes base is an important pool of direct and indirect jobs. Since it has finally been decided not to stockpile nuclear weapons there, it can be said that it is particularly well integrated in this region. As far as nuclear weapons are concerned, I'm not teaching you anything, it's about Kleine-Brogel. Overall, the co-existence of military and civilian activities is particularly successful. As a result, concern about the future of the base is high among both military and civilian personnel and local politicians as a result of the announcement of a plan of savings and the closure of one of the two air bases. Minister, does the savings plan involve the closure of the Florennes base? You will have understood that my concern is that this is not the case. What is the timetable for this? On the basis of what criteria will the government choose to retain or close a particular basis? These decisions must be objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u17	Madam Chair, Minister, I share the same concerns as my colleagues. Given the budgetary savings of approximately EUR 1.7 billion that were announced to us during the budget review and the noise over the closure of barracks and CHOD's statements to the press, I have serious concerns about the closure of the Florennes base. As Mr.Clarinval has indicated, this base employs more than 1,000 military personnel and is home to several of our F-16s. I also share the technical positive elements which call for the continuation of this base in Florennes. Minister, what are your intentions regarding the Florennes airbase? Do you have any idea of a timetable for your future decisions on military settlements in our territory, especially for Florennes? The selection criteria are important elements on which I would like to hear from you. Is consultation with regional and local authorities planned? When are you going to indicate precisely the policy that will be carried out within this framework? When will you disclose your decisions in this regard? In addition, at the beginning of January Mr. Ducarme assured the press "that there was no question of touching Florennes". Do you confirm the position of the MR?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I would like to state that I understand where these come from and I take note of your concern. I also note that a member of Ecolo is asking for fighter planes. Within the Ministry of Defence, no decision on the closure of neighbourhoods has been taken at this time. In accordance with the 9 October 2014 government agreement and as I have already confirmed to you in various responses and confirmed in my political orientation statement, I will propose a long-term strategic vision to the government in which the infrastructure component will also be dealt with, in accordance with the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u19	I expected that answer. But let it be clear, and as my group leader said in the press, Mrs Grovonius is right, the MR is part of the majority. What I say here, I have the mandate to say: the MR does not want the closure of the Florennes base or even its reduction. This element is not negotiable in the future of the military reform plan. Our position on this subject is therefore very firm. Minister, you are not revealing what is going on and are currently discussing it. Our position is clear and well known. Our group leader said it in the press and I repeat it here. On this point, we will be intractable. As my group leader said, it's a casus belli. Therefore, I can only repeat that point.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u20	Atmosphere!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u21	It's just a position statement. It's not negotiable. Thank you for taking note of this position.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u22	Madam Chair, I didn't get any new fighter jets, minister. Have this debate with my fellow Members. Hellings and De Vriendt on the potential investment in new F-35 aircraft. It's not about that. There is indeed for the moment an activity in Florennes. The concern is that in these savings choices, the government is fair, objective and takes into account all the elements. There is a legitimate concern at the local level about the timetables for decision-making, about consultation, about taking into account the economic impact of the choices that are being made. If you understood that my question encouraged you to invest in F-35 or other equipment, you misunderstood me. That's obviously not what I said. I take note of the warlike remarks made by my colleague from the MR on this issue and I will be an attentive observer on the subject and concerned about the impact of any decision on all the regions concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u23	I take note that there is no decision currently taken. I am a little disappointed with that answer. I didn't expect it, but I still thought I'd get a few things today. What I understood was that you were going to try to make a decision on a long-term strategic vision, in accordance with the government agreement. And from what I hear today, Minister, I can only do one thing, it is to wish you a lot of courage because I feel that the debates are going to be long and laborious!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u24	Madam President, Minister, at the start of the previous legislature, your predecessor, then Minister of Defence De Crem, promised to create a benefit platform for defence personnel during his term of office. In order to develop that benefit platform, it appeared that the royal decree had to be adapted, but so far that has not yet happened. The budgetary reality does not allow the bets, whose baremas date back to 1994, to be upgraded, but Defence could connect for free to the benefit platform of Rail Facilities. If I were well informed, that would have been the case since the beginning of February. However, Minister, I have the following specific questions for you. Do you intend to keep the promise of former Secretary of Defense De Crem and still join the benefit platform? Can you confirm? Have you already taken steps or will you take steps to adapt the royal decree? Can you confirm whether Defense is connected to Rail Facilities' benefit platform?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u25	Madam President, Mr Top, you yourself gave the answer in the introduction to your question. I have indeed given permission and discussed with CDSCA to effectively provide a benefit platform to Defence personnel. CDSCA, the Central Service for Social and Cultural Action of Defence, has achieved this by using indeed the existing platform of Rail Facilities. In concrete terms, this was communicated to the defence staff on 30 January and the offer of benefits has been operational since 2 February. With regard to an amendment to the royal decree, I can say the following. The Royal Decree on CDSCA provides a very broad legal framework within which these benefits can be offered without any modification of the Royal Decree. In my view, therefore, and according to my advisers, there is no need to amend the Royal Decree, as this can be done within the existing rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for confirming the connection to the benefit platform. The fact that this has happened in the meantime is, of course, due to the long time between the submission of my question and the answer that you can only give today. So much better it's settled. Together with my fellow Members, I can see that the initiative or proposal of the former Minister of Defence, Mr De Crem, to amend the Royal Decree will no longer be discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u27	Mr President, we could have developed something ourselves, but I think we have passed that stage. There's an existing platform that, I'm told, seems to be working very well. CDSCA considers that this existing system creates a win-win situation and that is why they have gone into action.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u28	In 2004, Belgium decided to act as a host country for NATO's newly built headquarters. The main contract of adoption was awarded in 2010 to BAM Alliance for an amount of EUR 457 million, a remarkable price as it was well below the average of its competitors. That average was EUR 509 million. In addition, the cost was estimated at 640 million euros. There was no doubt at that time that this was an attractive offer. Defence also allocated 22.9 million euros to cover unforeseen expenditure, and 52.8 million euros to cover price reviews. However, since the outsourcing of this contract, BAM has already submitted several claims, increasing the sum for unforeseen circumstances by 14.8 million euros. However, this sum would still be insufficient for the claims made by BAM. In the meantime, therefore, the initially attractive price offer is no longer so attractive. The costs are very high. I can understand that the estimated prices for materials and the like are no longer up-to-date, given the time involved. However, the increasing claims for damages pose a different problem. We can ask ourselves whether the tender was credible at the start of the procedure. Moreover, the Court of Auditors' report shows that the EUR 14.8 million additional resources for unforeseen circumstances will not be sufficient in the long term. An article published in De Tijd on 6 December 2014 shows that the additional costs already amount to 85 million euros. Nor is it clear when the building will be ready. The Ministry of Defence reports that the additional costs are shared among all NATO Member States, not just at the expense of the Belgian Government. Minister, I would like to ask you a few more questions. Firstly, was the initial tender sufficiently examined in 2010 for price differences? Secondly, was an error of assessment made by BAM or does BAM exaggerate the additional costs submitted? Thirdly, are the additional costs being adequately screened and checked at the moment? Fourthly, Article 17 of the Memorandum states that Defence is not held responsible when delays or additional costs are caused by default of a contractor. Moreover, NATO cannot charge the host country with responsibilities as there is permanent control. However, the article in De Tijd shows that we would still pay for the extra cost. If this is the case, what amount is it for our country? NATO itself changed the plans, resulting in additional costs. Who is responsible for these additional costs? Are we also paying for this, in proportion to the distribution key between the different Member States? Is there an additional budget requested from NATO for unforeseen circumstances? By when do you estimate that the building will be fully completed, in view of the deadline set in early 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u29	You refer to an article in De Tijd based on a report from the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors' press release says: "However, Belgium's responsibility was not at stake. I also quote from that famous report: "The project management team cannot be held responsible for unforeseen circumstances and unforeseen inconveniences. It is also not responsible for delays and additional costs for the works caused by the default of one of the contractors chosen in accordance with the principles of the NSIP procedure. What's the DOD doing in this whole story? We deliver the project management team. There have been very good agreements with NATO on this. I will answer some of your questions specifically. The contract for the construction of the new NATO headquarters was awarded after a thorough analysis of the tenders submitted to the tenderer with the lowest compliant tender. The tender did not contain a legal basis for exclusion due to abnormally low prices according to the applicable rules. By the end of November 2013, BAM Alliance submitted a claim for damages for an extension and additional costs due to various circumstances that were unforeseen at the time of submitting the offer, including the exceptional weather forecast in the winter of 2012-2013, stricter security requirements imposed by NATO and various clarifications of the project, i.e. changes in NATO's specific demand and need. During the past year, these claims for compensation were analysed in detail. Both the legal admissibility and the merits were examined. The extent of the claim was investigated in detail with the help of specialists from both inside and outside Defense. Indeed, the Memorandum of Understanding between Belgium and NATO states that all costs arising from claims for damages and all project costs for modifications are borne by NATO. As a Member State of NATO, Belgium contributes 3,8031 % of the cost of the project on the basis of the distribution key used. Even after the scheme, and as provided for in the same memorandum, a budget is reserved for unforeseen circumstances. The transfer of the new NATO headquarters is scheduled for summer 2016. Finally, I can add the following. This is an important file. I looked at it myself. I'm from the sector. So I can compare things. I note that, even after all the amendments and the agreements concluded with BAM in the meantime, they remain significantly below the initial estimate price. The Court of Auditors also confirms that the services of Defense have acted as a good family father and good technicians.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that we share the same view on this point, that each of us has a very thorough responsibility for the tenders, the specifications and their follow-up. Together with our partner Member States, we are all contributing, according to the key you have given up. It is good to hear from you that everything is being followed up properly. We are still below the estimate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u31	Substantive, in fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u32	That is true, but if there are additional costs, they must be followed very closely so that the consortium that received the award does not charge any non-existent extra costs or overcharge certain costs. As a government, it is our duty to follow these matters very well. In fact, DOD supplies the project management team. Certainly that team should not be forced to bear any responsibility or guilt if things were not followed up properly. Thank you for your follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u33	During the budget negotiations, Minister, you said that there was no budget available in 2015 to start investments in Melsbroek. The choice not to start the investments this year has implications for the A400Mís, which will be delivered in 2018. After all, the aircraft would be delivered in Melsbroek. Only Bevekom can offer a possible option for the delivery and storage of the A400M. Other military airports are apparently much less or no option. Mr Minister, do you intend to start investments in Melsbroek during this legislature? If Melsbroek is not ready in time, will the aircraft be housed in Bevekom? What financial costs are linked to the changes in Bevekom? If so, what timing is attached to the adjustments? If neither Melsbroek nor Bevekom is an option, where are the A400M So what are the costs and timing involved? At Melsbroek they were already studying the new procedures which the new aircraft brings with them. If the devices are not housed in Melsbroek, but in another place, is there anything prepared to shape the training and training for the delivery in 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u34	Thank you, Mr Top, for your question. My answer will disappoint you a little, but your question falls within the category of then-questions. With the decision of the Council of Ministers of 25 April 2014, the launch of the public contract 114IP005 concerning Melsbroek, military airport, infrastructure for the integration of the military transport aircraft A400M, study and execution, was postponed for Defence. Within the contours of the government agreement of 10 October 2014, I will propose a long-term strategic vision to the government in spring, including infrastructure. We need to make a clear distinction here: on the one hand, who should do this in the defence sector, in particular, prepare for the arrival of the A400M, and on the other hand, the decisions on infrastructure falling within the scope of the general decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u35	I can only confirm that it is a disappointing answer. To my questions about the follow-up to the hearings and a vision of the army's future, you announced a delay. (Protests from Minister Vandeput) That is so, given your announcement to propose a general vision in April and a detailed implementation in September at the earliest starting from 2016. This has its consequences for the necessary adjustments for receiving the A400M. We won't be able to store it in the place that isn't being adapted right now. I urge you to answer the following questions. What's going on? Where can we store the planes? What's the timing? The implementation of the adjustments will take some time. The period 2016-2018 for tendering and execution will be very short. I'm afraid we won't have a suitable place to put those planes in a decent place by 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u36	You're talking about postponing a vision, or whatever you call it. You yourself said in the press that I should take a little more time. I am now saying openly in the sitting that a fully developed plan is not feasible and that I will come up with a global vision. Politics has its rights. Your o Pposition is awesome. Whatever you say. If next time I want to say something in an informative title to the committee, I will think twice about the consequences. The goodwill I show the committee occasionally comes back as a political boomerang. I'd like to address your concerns. The A400M devices don't all arrive at the same time. We are now talking about a delivery in 2018. At that point, we need to be ready to receive the first one. The rest will follow later. I understand your concern. Coming from the private sector, I pay a great deal of attention to increased costs due to lateness. I'm following the file very closely. Measures are taken internally to ensure that staff are technically able to receive the A400M. Their preparation continues, independently of the location where the devices are stored. We are also reviewing the file on the necessary infrastructure. After all, we believe that the cost of this is high.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u37	Madam President, we can, of course, continue to discuss it. Mr Minister, I would like to raise one more point. You quoted the investments. However, I would recommend that you also pay sufficient attention to and free up time for training and training.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u38	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van der Maelen's 1960 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u39	Minister, this question dates back to 18 December. I would like to receive an overview of the military contribution of all states that are part of the coalition fighting in Iraq and Syria, with information on participation in air combat, the provision of advisors or trainers, the supply of weapons and other military equipment and any other contributions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u40	Mr van der Maelen, in view of the classification of the information requested, I cannot make it known. However, further details were given at the last meeting of the Special Committee in charge of the Follow-up of Foreign Missions of 17 December 2014 and 4 February 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. This is another illustration of the culture that exists in the Defence Department: valuable and useful information for Members of Parliament, for example, to compare the contribution Belgium makes in comparison with other countries, is given behind closed doors and not to all members of the committee. How ridiculous this kind of arrangement is is the fact that I refer you to the website of Al Jazeera or of The Telegraph, because that information is available there, although it is not known whether the information on these sites is officially correct. I deliberately asked this question because I expected the answer. We must put an end to this ridiculous culture of giving all the information behind closed doors, hidden from Parliament's eyes. I'll keep knocking on that nail.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u42	Who am I to interfere in the work of Parliament, but it is Parliament itself that has included this special committee and it is Parliament itself that has decided who is to sit on that committee. I believe that there are all representatives of the people in that committee, and there is also a representative of your party, Mr Van der Maelen. It is up to the people on that committee to make this kind of information known. I see people here who are also on that special committee and who are nodding in agreement with what I am saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u43	Mr Minister, for your information, I have always opposed this technique of committees which get pieces of information that are withheld from other Members behind closed doors. Once the decision has been taken, however, I will stick to that rule, I will not contact you, I will not embarrass my colleague, Mr Top, who is on that committee, and do not ask him to give me that information. For me, this is a matter of principle, because this kind of information does not belong in the committee behind closed doors. This is general information to which all Members of Parliament are entitled. Again, that defense position is ridiculous. The information is available even though it is not certain that it is officially correct on the site of Al Jazeera, The Telegraph, Foreign Affairs and others. Why can't we get that information? Please stop doing so, do not make the military something that is decided in back rooms because that is not good for the credibility and support of Defence within society.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u44	Madam President, Minister, in December there was quite rightly a lot of commotion about the fact that King Filip used an army aircraft's defence budget to go on vacation with his offspring to India. It is highly inappropriate and indecent that there is still room for such expenditure in the defence budget now that the army has to save significantly. Nor can it be justified that a prince should not pay for his private travels himself. When I submitted that question more than a month and a half ago, my first question was whether you had given permission for that private trip. In the meantime, we have received an answer. You made an attempt to put it in the shoes of your predecessor. In your first reaction, you said that this had happened in the previous cabinet, but we could now see in the newspapers the printout of the letter you signed with pleasure to give your consent. My question is, of course, why. I ask myself big questions about the way that communication happened. Actually, there are only two possibilities. Either you don't know what you're drawing, and then that's not really an example of skill, or you deliberately withheld permission and tried to lie to people. Infidelity or incompetence, I don't know which of those two options is the worst. Mr Minister, I would like to hear from you today why you have given your consent to this. My second question two months ago was what the total cost of that journey was. A member of your party has now received a written reply. The total cost was more than 40 000 euros. I would like to hear from you what arrangements are being worked out for the future. The commotion was justified. In the meantime, we've been able to read a lot of things. There will be substantial savings on the white fleet. I wonder why only 40% will be saved, why the use of military aircraft by the Court and other dignitaries is not even reduced by half. I should like to hear more about the specific measures today. Are the latest reports that 192 000 euros per year will still be provided for our sovereign's private travels? I hope you will be able to contradict those messages and I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u45	Madam President, Minister, my question is on the same subject, but if it is reassuring for you, my question is a little less tendential. Moreover, it is not your responsibility that the question should only be addressed today. We are dealing with these hearings, which have delayed the questions. The federal government needs to save money. Defense needs to save money. This has already been the subject of a number of debates. I read that further questions will be raised about the protective measures that will be taken. It is therefore up to everyone in the army to show some austerity from high to low. I think this is important. Mr Pas has already referred to the media heisa of late December last year. Then a little storm broke loose about the King's private journey when he went with his family to India. He would have used a Falcon of Defense with military personnel from Melsbroek. The costs, which were announced by the military trade unions, and who are we to not support the trade unions, would amount to EUR 200 000. What about this figure, to which reference has just been made? I would also like to emphasise that, as far as we are concerned, the security of the government, and of the head of state, is very important. However, it is a useful exercise to find out where the border is to be drawn. We read that VIP travel would fall by 40%. I have a number of specific questions. What is the current budget? In what way will those VIP trips be saved, and more specifically for the royal family? To what extent are costs being passed on? According to the news reports, this money could be returned to the Department of Defense. What ideas are there in this respect? There was also thought in the media about an adaptation of the official documents that the King must sign. For example, some kind of e-signature could be used. This question may be a little outside your jurisdiction, but I would have liked to know what is going on in the government and whether it is planning initiatives in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u46	Madam President, I would like to thank Members for their questions. For many of these questions I should like to refer to the answer to the written question No. Question No 109, by Mrs Pas and Question No 109, by Mr de la Malène 105 and No. 106 by Mr Vuye. In those answers, I gave all the financial information relating to the King's movements and the total cost of the white fleet. The transfer of the King to India has indeed cost EUR 40 000. Mrs Pas, I would draw your attention to the fact that I am being asked to sign and instruct me to make a flight available to anyone for a trip, the king, the Prime Minister, the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the Minister for Development Cooperation. I'll sign and give the order. As Minister of Defence, I am not allowed to interfere in any way with the opportunity of a particular journey. That's neither my job nor my job, I don't think this would hear. I'll see you there. The cost to India, as already stated by Mrs Pas, was not EUR 200 000, as some claim, but EUR 40 000. On the question of the king's budget, I can only repeat what was answered to a question asked by a member of my party at the time, concerning greater transparency in the king's spending. By law, the Chamber decided to separate a number of expenses, such as those for flight hours, from 2014 in Section 01 of the general expenditure budget, i.e. donations and activities of the royal family. For 2014, this was EUR 240 000 in the budget approved by the Court. That amount was respected. In the meantime, Mrs Pas also received a written reply. For 2015, this will be EUR 192 000. For the total cost of the fleet, I do not have the data right away, but I can mention, Mr Buysrogge, that the total use of the so-called white fleet for 67 % consists of operational purposes. It is therefore also about troop transport, preparation of exercises and so on. Finally, Mrs Pas, as has already been said, it is not up to the Minister of Defence to make changes to it alone. The Chamber and its representatives are free to take any initiative. Until another initiative is approved by the Chamber, I will apply and respect the rules and laws in force.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u47	Minister, I did not receive an answer to my question on the way in which communication was made. You are now saying that it is not for you to question the reasons why aircraft are ordered by anyone. That should have been your answer at the time, instead of trying to put it in the shoes of your predecessor. That would have been more tidy. Today you say that for 2015 there is still 192 000 euro left for private travel by the monarch. Last year's budget of EUR 240 000 was so rich that he didn't even get it up. He used 218 000 euros of it. Now he has to turn in 20% of a budget he didn't even get. I think that's very brief. I expected more from you, Minister. I read the reactions of your partymates at the time of the commotion. The committee president felt it was no longer of this time that Defense had to pay for private travel in these saving times. In these times of saving, I find it irresponsible to leave 80% of a budget that is not even available. I do not want to anticipate Mr Buysrogge's reaction. He will undoubtedly point out the steps in the right direction in terms of transparency. It certainly reassures me that he clearly stated in his question that there are considerable differences in the approach of our respective parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u48	Mrs Pas, I did not answer your question about communication, but in my characteristic openness, which usually does not suit me very well, I will give you an explanation. The journalists concerned could not immediately indicate where the famous journey would take place on the Asian continent. At that time, I was abroad myself. There was a call back and forth to determine what was going on with the file. There may have been the mistake of not specifically checking in the indications where what was signed. People who worked at my predecessor's office and are still there knew that the journey was long planned. After all, a journey of the king is prepared long in advance. That trip was also modified a few times. I was told in good faith that this was a matter for the previous government and that we had nothing to do with it. Again, it's my job to give the order. I don't have a ruling on any travel opportunities. Mrs. Pas, you expected more from me. Actually, it's gonna be a big deal to me. You don't live in my province, so you can't vote for me. Had you lived in my province, you might not have voted for me either. I'll do what I have to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u49	I would like to respond briefly, Minister. It may be a lesson, Minister. Indeed, if one has not checked data and is not 100% sure, then one should not communicate instead of sending wrong communication into the world, which will only be blown up and lead one's own life. You can rest assured that I, as a Flemish nationalist, would not have gotten over my heart to vote for the N-VA. That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u50	Minister, I live in the same province as Mrs Pas, but I would not have voted for her either. That's what I'd like to say. I invite the government to sobriety in all areas, including in relation to the royal service and, above all, private travel. You also bounce the ball back to Parliament. It is therefore up to us to respond to this and to see what steps we can take. After all, it's really exaggerated. Only my last question on the e-signature did I not receive an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u51	Mr Buysrogge, I can confirm that, since I am a minister, no flights have been operated to obtain signatures anywhere. For the rest, I think that the initiative concerning the e-signature taken by a number of Members of Parliament is a good initiative. However, that is my personal opinion and has nothing to do with Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u52	Madam President. Minister, my question is going to bring a little serenity, since, even if it is said that from the shock of ideas comes the light, I'm going to talk to you about blackout. That's good! The government agreement states, on page 95, that "the government will take the initiative so that emergency generators can participate more in the market, including its own generators". National Defence generators appear to be clearly involved in this project. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. How many generators are available to National Defence, which may be affected by this project? What is the status of this intention as reflected in the Government Agreement? Have any working groups involving the various departments concerned, including Defence, already met? Finally, does this provision of generators, in your opinion, constitute a mission of assistance to the nation or will it be billed by the Defence?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u53	Mr Pirlot, according to the information available to me, many generators are available on the market for sale or rental. With regard to your question about our own generators, I have here a list that I have transferred to the secretariat. I'm not going to read it, but it's a few hundred - 600 or about 700. In order not to compete unfairly with specialized firms, Defence does not spontaneously propose to make available Defence generators. If the private sector supply was found to be insufficient, which does not appear to be the case at this time, Defence would then analyze the requests on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u54	Do you consider the possible provision of generators to be a mission of assistance to the nation or will it be billed by the Defence?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u55	It is not normally possible to compete with the private sector. If a need is actually felt at this level, a requisition (opeising) can intervene, invoiced on the basis of variable costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u56	Minister, during the KHID information session, I learned that there is an exercise in the services to identify specific skills that might be too many in the Defense Department and could possibly be transferred to private companies. Last week, General Grosdent also explained this. I think it is a very good initiative, which could create a win-win situation: for private companies, for defence, but also for the individual himself. How's the drill coming along? Are there any results that can be made public so far? The main problem with the transfer to the private sector is the status of the defence officer. Is there any consideration of retaining the status in the event of transfers so that the staff member retains his or her rights in a kind of detachment system, or is there more thought of purchasing or compensating the acquired rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u57	Mr Vandenput, thank you for your question and I certainly share your opinion on the opportunity of looking at and studying horizontal mobility for people within Defence tout court. The questions you are asking are also the questions we are asking ourselves today. This exercise is indeed under way and is being dealt with within the framework of the strategic plan. There are specific research questions addressed by my cabinet to the staff to see what options might be available. It is too early today to give any clarification on this. As far as your comment on a legislative initiative is concerned, it is indeed my opinion that a legal initiative will certainly be necessary, whatever solution comes out of the box.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased to hear that you also support and actively participate in the principle of horizontal mobility. I look forward to the strategic plan in which it may have been incorporated.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u59	Minister, we read in the coalition agreement regarding the commemorations of the First World War: 'The government will pay attention to the memory of all those who have borne the war effort through their personal sacrifice and will watch over the transfer of that thought to the next generations'. The language problem in the army and the suppression of the Flemish on the front are an essential part of that history. The Belgian army was largely a French-speaking army, especially in the officers' corps, with a large majority of Flemish soldiers. The Flemish Front movement, a not insignificant part of our history, has emerged from this poignant discrimination. The Flemish Front Movement was a large-scale protest-emancipation movement, which later, with the Iron Pilgrimage and the Front Party, laid the foundations for the political Flemish Movement and for the struggle for self-government and self-determination, which we still have to fight. This is a fundamental and decisive fact in the history of the last century of a people in our country. During the previous legislature, your predecessor, Minister De Crem, mentioned the story of the growing Flemish Movement as an important storyline. Nevertheless, we note that this story is not covered at all or at all in remembrances, exhibitions and so on. Minister, now that a Flemish nationalist is Minister of Defence, and I assume that I may call you Flemish nationalist, perhaps the cards are better. Firstly, what initiatives have you already taken to make the story of the personal suffering and sacrifice of so many Flemish soldiers during the First World War more and better reflected in the forthcoming initiatives to commemorate the Great War? Secondly, how will you monitor and, if necessary, remedial action in remembrance projects in order to ensure that the story of the emerging Flemish Movement at the IJzerfront gets the place it deserves?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u60	Mr Penris, I can only speak about my competence, about the defence contribution. The contribution of Defence to the commemorations of the Great War was organized in the previous reign and is situated in two areas. On the one hand, the various cemeteries were refurbished and made more accessible, and on the other hand, the exhibition was................................................................................................................................................................................... set up at the Army Museum. Defence's memorial program explicitly takes back life and suffering in wartime as a focus for 2015. The programme aims: "The first gas attack of 22 April 1915, which also caused Belgian casualties at Steenstrate, is perhaps the most famous fact from the second year theme. Both the physical and psychological suffering of the front soldiers is discussed, but also the fate of prisoners of war in Germany, the interned in the Netherlands, the leftovers at home and the mourning of the dead with the construction of the first war cemeteries. This programme is now being developed with the various partners and the federal organizational committee for the commemoration of the First World War.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u61	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that you have to carry out a piece of what previous governments had planned in these. I do not have any problem with the issue of refugees that you bring to the fore: the gas attack by Steenstrate, the prisoners of war, the refugees in the Netherlands, the laggards, etc. I think this is all very good, but you, as a Flemish nationalist, could and should add an additional theme, in particular the emergence of the Front Movement, of the Flemish movement at the front, because the Flemish soldiers were oppressed. I think this is as important a subject as the one you have just mentioned. You have powers here, you have possibilities here. You're a Flemish nationalist minister. Why don't you take advantage of the position you hold today?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u62	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Penris's 1371 is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u63	Minister, this question was tabled a long time ago. On 18 December 2014, the Council of Ministers decided not to organise a promotional committee for senior officers or generals. According to Lieutenant General Grosdent, that was a political decision. On the one hand, you would like to wait and see your strategic future plan to see how many generals and senior officers will remain, and on the other hand, there are savings in the staff budget. The rest of my introduction is deleted, because you have already explained the promotion committees. I shall therefore go straight to my questions. Do the forthcoming savings operations have an impact on the promotions and the periodic progress of those promotions? Will the following promotions continue at a normal pace or will they be postponed? Is it true that the Promotion Committee, which is normally scheduled for February or March, will not be organised? Is it true that all promotions at the Department of Defense are frozen? If so, until when? Have you already laid down a number of open places for promotions through the committees? Is there sufficient communication to staff about the timing and whether or not the promotion committees are organised?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u64	Mr Top, I would first like to correct something from your introduction. It is not the Council of Ministers that took a decision on 18 December 2014 but myself. It's a ministerial decision. Whether or not promotional committees should take place is my competence. For military, there are two types of promotion: on the basis of seniority and through a promotional committee. The second system applies only to the Chief of Staff, namely the Chief of Staff and the Chief of Staff, and to the Chief and Chief Officers, from major to lieutenant general. The first promotion committee takes place normally and traditionally during the first trimester. The second committee shall take place during the last trimester of the year. In order to organise a committee, it should be possible to determine the number of places for promotion per corps. In order to do so, the number of existing staff must be compared with the number of places established, which depends on the outcome of the strategic plan, which we do not know today. In addition, on 18 December 2014, the Council of Ministers decided to extend the measures of budgetary prudence introduced in September 2014 until the outcome of budgetary control is known. This implies that no HR decision should be taken with lasting consequences, which of course also applies to the Promotion Committees, although the date of the Committee does not always coincide with the promotion itself. That is not entirely a change, but the circular also provides for an exception. On 1 December 2014, I decided not to have the Officers' Promotion Committee organized. The communication of that decision is a responsibility of the defence staff, in particular of the General Director or the Human Resources Directorate, who was present here two weeks ago, the general you quoted, General Grosdent. For the Petty Officers' Promotion Committee, the file was recently delivered by the Defence Staff. It is proposed that the Committee should take place after the publication of the strategic plan, more specifically in mid-2015. It will, of course, only be possible to do so to the extent that the measures of budgetary prudence are lifted. So, Mr Top, what is the bottom line? In my opinion, it was not appropriate to contribute to a summit which was not known whether we would need it in that way tomorrow. It therefore seems to me to be cautious and good governance in order not to allow committees to take place for the time being and first to look at what our defence will look like in the future and what frameworks we need to do about it. On the basis of these particular frameworks, we can effectively re-establish promotion committees. I have one last addition. For the senior officers, I made the decision a little later than for the officers, but the decision was for the same point. I have made the decision not only because of savings, but also to give a signal to the people at the base. I have a lot of contacts with and get a lot of questions from people at the base of Defense. There too, the question of what will happen to them has already been asked. There is also a concern with them. I wanted to give these people the signal that we are working on a defence for everyone and that we want a framework that will be adapted to our needs in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation. We understand, of course, the concerns of the staff. From low to high, in all frameworks, there is concern about whether or not the promotions will take place. The mission is now mainly communication. As far as the officers are concerned, you have just referred to General Grosdent. Also with regard to the petty officers, any decision taken or postponed must be communicated very clearly. Nothing is worse than creating or maintaining an expectation to which no answer is given. That was actually the reason for my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u66	Minister, in the context of the transformation of Defense, the barracks in Sijsele were closed in 2011. Four years later, that barracks is still empty and the site is ruined. Apparently, three soldiers are still on watch. It has been said several times that the city of Damme would buy the barracks or certain parts of them. The problem is that the soil would be severely polluted and the cost of land restoration would be a heavy financial burden. If this information is correct, the city of Damme does not wish to bear those costs or to purchase them only if those costs are borne by the Defence Department. Mr Minister, can you give me the current state of affairs regarding the sale of these land and its possible future destination? Is it true that the city of Damme still wants to buy those land or parts of it? What is the position of the Defense Department on the cost of clean-up? Who's gonna wear it? Is the DOD prepared to bear the cost of the land renovation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u67	Mr Top, it is important to know where his responsibility lies in such dossiers. The barracks were transferred to the Purchase Committee of the FPS Finance for alienation in June 2012 to deal with this further. The city of Damme has been authorised by the Flemish government to determine the new destination in a municipal spatial implementation plan, a GRUP. The WVI, the West Flemish intercommunal, was entrusted by the city of Damme with the preparation of the site's conversion. The GRUP is still in preparation. A new soil remodelling project is being developed for the clean-up process, with a view to finding more efficient clean-up techniques. There is indeed pollution. It is also true that we cannot proceed to alienation as long as the site is polluted. I think I'm gonna tell you who's gonna have to cover the costs. The costs are normally at the expense of the Defense Department. According to my information, they wanted to use an expensive technique of rehabilitation. We are now looking at another remodeling technique. This year, a pilot project is being carried out on rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u68	Thank you, Minister, for the answers on the state of the GRUP. It is true and it is known that this is done through the WVI. From the city of Damme and the surrounding region you can understand my concern about the progress of that dossier. Like my previous question, it will probably be about communication. A route will be proposed that shows how the timing is right, so that we know when to expect the next steps. You yourself indicated that a pilot project will be launched this year. How long will that take and what can the next steps be? That would be the next question that arises from the city of Damme and the people in the area there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u69	Madam President, we can communicate a great deal, but the Defense Department cannot discuss each project separately with the people. It is up to those involved in the GRUP and I think it is mainly their job to keep their people regularly informed of the state of play. Of course, that does not mean that there must be communication between our people, those within the defence staff who are responsible for that file, and the municipality of Damme. However, in the public communication of Defence, I would like to confine myself to the defence itself. If we also have to communicate with the local authorities, then that goes a long way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u70	Minister, you are absolutely right that communication should not come directly from the Defense Department with regard to the city and its surroundings. My only concern is the communication about progress, including on soil remodelling. The soil restoration is the most important piece that stops this file. We know how fast that is progressing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u71	Mr Top, it is a great pity that you were not able to attend our visit to DOVO yesterday. You would have already heard the answer to the question about the decommissioning plant for liquid toxic content.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u72	I apologize for that. I had to apologize the day before for an important meeting in my own city. As a member of a Flemish party, you should know that the city of Harelbeke is the oldest city in Flanders. That's where the roots of Flanders lie. I am not going to give any more introductions, because it was given to the people who attended Poelkappelle yesterday. Is it true that Defense can only provide safe storage until 2016? What measures are planned to ensure safe storage from 2016 onwards? The previous minister confirmed that a new installation would be built. Is it there yet? If not, when will it come and according to what timing will this happen? What about the budgetary aspect of the same installation? Has she been paid yet? What is the state of play on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u73	I'm going to tell you that the neighbors certainly don't have to worry. That was clear yesterday during the visit. There are, of course, some uncertainties or issues that can be specified. Based on specific storage rules and calculated according to the average inflow of toxic ammunition, the site still has storage capacity until 2016. The current installation can no longer be used, as you know. In order to anticipate, on the one hand, the discovery of large ammunition storage sites and, on the other hand, any delays in the construction of the Static Detonation Chamber, the SDC, storage capacity will be increased in the course of this year by the construction of additional storage platforms. Those works have already been effectively started. Defence has indeed undertaken the acquisition of a new high-tech plant for the destruction of toxic missiles. The contract for the construction of the SDC was served on the Swedish company Dynasafe on 23 December 2014, i.e. immediately after its approval in the Council of Ministers. The new installation is planned to be operational by the end of 2016. The acquisition of the SDC involves an investment of EUR 16.8 million. This amount was approved by the Council of Ministers on 18 December 2014. The payment will be made in instalments over the years 2015, 2016 and 2017, on the basis of the progress of the work. As I informed the members of the committee yesterday, I would like to stress that, in the context of all the savings we have to make, I will, of course, never take risks that would endanger the safety of our people and those living around us. This project will therefore continue as planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u74	Madam President, Minister, thank you for the answer. I am pleased to hear that safety is not being saved and that this new installation will be there by the end of 2016 so that there will be no capacity problems in the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u75	Madam President, Minister, during the hearings this week on the topic of the future of Defence, we were able to hear from the bosses of the State Security and the General Intelligence and Security Service (SGRS). They have made the same alarm cry, as the lack of staff in their essential services is exclaiming. This lack of resources is paradoxical. Indeed, if the Belgian intelligence and security services are to be modernised, as the government has expressed its wish, recurrent and, above all, effective means are needed in the press. Moreover, the drastic reduction in the army's budget, and in so doing the refocusing of the activities involved, should be accompanied by a better allocation of these services. According to Major General Eddy Testelmans, the SSRS will already survive this year, as the government has not planned any investments and has forecast a 10% personnel loss within five years. In addition, while my memory is good, during the hearing, the General Major explained that he had to freeze 24 jobs in order to recruit computer scientists in order to combat cybercrime and monitor social networks. Minister, among the measures announced by the government to combat terrorism and radicalism, what is the place of the SGRS? What budgetary, material and human resources are available to this military intelligence service? The Government had presented the use of the interdepartmental envelope as a solution to the needs of the services faced, in particular, with the fight against terrorism. What about it? Beyond the establishment of the Belgian Intelligence Academy (BIA), what further steps will be taken to promote synergies and, above all, insufficient information exchange between the State Security, the SGRS and the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis (OCAM)? Finally, it appears that the monitoring of social media is insufficient and requires investments in particular at the level of the SGRS. Are these investments planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u76	Madam President, Mr Pirlot, with regard to the issues related to the role, priorities, budgets and technologies required for the General Intelligence and Security Service, I refer you to the content of the Government Agreement of October 10, 2014 and the Defence Policy Statement of November 27, 2014. The guidelines mentioned in these two documents will be the subject of a detailed study. As regards the fight against terrorism and radicalism, the SGRS fulfils, within its legal framework, specific tasks which consist mainly of following the influence of the external threat on internal security. The means available to the Service for this purpose are classified. With regard to the interdepartmental provision, the management of the provision is not part of my jurisdiction but is the result of a collegial discussion by the government. It is therefore not possible for me to inform you about this. The exchange of information between the State Security and the SGRS is based on a cooperation agreement. The SGRS is a service that supports and provides relevant information to the Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis. On the basis of the government agreement, the two intelligence services are exploring different avenues to further improve collaboration and the exchange of information between the services. The Belgian Intelligence Academy is also an action to promote collaboration. Finally, the monitoring of social media needs to be further improved, inter alia by investing in staff and additional resources. In collaboration with other departments, the SGRS is developing a plan to optimize follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u77	Minister, beyond the reassuring cosmetic and electoral effect of our fellow citizens who see jihadists everywhere – I recognize that the MR and the N-VA have played well in relation to their CD&V partner – I think that the presence of soldiers on the streets does not in any way prevent a person who is determined and willing to give his life to commit an attack. The effectiveness of the fight against terrorism depends first and foremost on the optimal intelligence services which defeat them before the act. I hope that our services will be able to benefit from the financial resources and staff needed to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u78	Believe me, Mr Pirlot, that will be the case!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u79	Question No 1267 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Penris' 1371 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u80	Mr Minister, on 14 January, the VRT reported on internal documents that could have been so-called seen. The relevant documents gave an idea of the EUR 225 million saving mission, mainly at smaller costs. The article talked about the non-repair of service cars, the outside operation of lifts and the early switch-off of heating from April onwards. There would also be a third less spent on the purchase of ammunition. The Navy would sail less. In the air force, a number of pilots would remain on the ground from now on and government planes would fly out less. Is the information correct in the article? Can you give a complete, but not necessarily oral, overview of the measures to be taken or taken in the meantime in the context of that saving mission? What's the status of that document? Is it a decision of the CHOD, or is it yours? What should be done to implement the measures announced?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u81	Mr President, I would like to confine my introduction to what Mr Buysrogge has not said. According to the cited documents, Defence will employ only 660 new people in 2015, and the focus will be on highly skilled people. It would involve 150 officers, 350 petty officers and 150 soldiers. Especially our air force needs a lot of highly qualified people. If we continue to save at this rate, our Belgian army will still have 15,000 men within ten years, half of the current number. I agree with Mr Buysrogge's questions. Can you effectively confirm the data as communicated? Is the choice to recruit highly qualified people in particular a signal to an air force-oriented army in the future? Is there currently a shortage of highly qualified people, for example specifically in the air force? Are some of them not in the trouble of maintaining their qualifications because they have too few flight hours? Will the recruitment of new men continue at the same pace throughout the rest of the legislature? Can you give me a precise list of these savings? How much is actually saved per saving? Are there any additional savings that have not yet been listed here in communication?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u82	Madam President, I am not going to repeat the introduction by my fellow Members. I simply note that an internal note has been sent to the press via a favourable wind. That is how we hear new things from time to time too, Minister. There will be a saving of 225 million euros in 2015. The headings to which they refer were also listed. However, I shall come straight to my questions, including, of course, the establishment plan. In 2015, only 600 new soldiers will be recruited instead of the planned 1600. Is this information correct? Can we get that note? What will the total number of military personnel be in 2015 after the planned 600 recruitments? Can you give me the total number? Also in flight hours will be saved. Will this affect the pilots in the Air Force? Does this have an impact on the future of air force capacity? It is said that the advertising budget will be reduced. Recently I asked a question about this, but now I would like to know in concrete terms what the budget for promotion will be according to the figures in this internal note.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u83	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your questions and concerns. Indeed, in line with the budget notifications, Defence is to save EUR 225 million in 2015 and EUR 225 million in 2015. In order to maximise the savings in training expenditure and operating expenditure, major measures should be taken, in particular in the area of investment. For the part of the investment debt to be repaid in 2015 under contract and for the most urgent investment files, Defence should be able to rely on the EUR 100 million entered in the interdepartmental investment commission. This will be the main question of Defence in the framework of the March budget control. Indeed, in order to reduce the current staff expenditure of 73 % in the future, it is envisaged to substantially reduce recruitment in 2015. The plan is to recruit a maximum of 660 soldiers this year, or perhaps 600, whose distribution has yet to be determined. This will have a positive budgetary impact in the following years, with a small positive budgetary impact in 2015. It also reduces the permanences of the military and removes some personnel initiatives with pecuniar impact. The future recruitment and division between officers, petty officers and soldiers will depend on the strategic plan currently being prepared. Some specification of where we save or what happens. In the field of operation, infrastructure costs are saved at 11 %, grants are paid at 23 %, ICT costs are paid at 12 %, shipments are paid at 21 %, support systems are paid at 15 %, medical costs are paid at 10 %, education is paid at 10 % and publicity activities are paid at 25 %. Despite the savings listed, the Department of Defense must also redirect its training activities. The flight plan drops in globo by 13 % and the sailing plan by 7 %. There is also substantial savings in the use of land systems and ammunition. A number of measures were already included in the initial 2015 budget, but the deadline was far too short to incorporate a thorough and fully developed savings plan into the initial budget. Meanwhile, such a savings plan has been developed in preparation for the necessary adjustment of the 2015 budget and apparently has been leaked again. A fresh wind, as you call it. As regards the question as to the number of flight hours per pilot, the general rule is 150 hours of flight time for a combat ready pilot and 50 hours for a basic combat ready pilot. That standard is maintained. This number is minimally necessary to maintain and expand the experience and to ensure flight safety. Given the savings on some aircraft, a number of pilots have switched to cheaper aircraft. On the question of the budget for promotion, Mr Yüksel, I can tell you that the budget for promotional campaigns for recruitment, within the PR general promotional campaigns, is reduced by 20% and is EUR 1.7 million. You're asking to get that document. What's the status of that document? It is an internal document that has already been replaced by three other documents, which is an iterative process between our cabinet and the staff. I do not see the point of spreading intermediate documents, which are constantly creating their own communication dynamics, which may not be desirable at the time. I think that with the EUR 225 million exercise that is ahead of us, everything needs to be discussed and examined at the outset. In the next question I will come back to how we started doing that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u84	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your explanation. I think this was also necessary after that so-called leak. You say that the note, which was then leaked, gave a state of affairs at the time, but that it was not a final plan. I don't think this is unimportant. What's the timing for the final plan? Is this about budgetary control in March, or can we expect it even faster? I think it would be advisable to have the final plan so that we can discuss it. I have not quite been able to follow the list because you were rather quick, but I may be able to consult them in the report. It is important for us that the operation, operationality and safety can be guaranteed. It seems logical to me that, pending a final plan, a number of protective measures can be used to determine a number of priorities. The consequence of setting a number of priorities is, of course, that non-priority operating costs can be temporarily discontinued. You can certainly count on our support in this regard. We are certainly looking forward to the final document that we expect in March.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u85	Madam President, Minister, my reply is actually very brief. You said it was about working documents. I fully understand that. You have also referred to the percentages after savings, coupled with the sum of the savings as quoted by my fellow Members. However, it is not possible to conclude that any plan, whether or not it is a working document, contains savings. The concerns of all concerned about what can still be done and implemented therefore remain. The more 2015 progresses, the more difficult it becomes to maintain those figures and to effectively implement the savings. The sooner a final plan can be drawn up, the better. I would also like to call for a final vision paper on the future of the army. This is a technical question. You just mentioned the savings in flight hours. The qualification or the licence for a particular type of aircraft with which the men train is linked to the type of aircraft with which they fly. Is that right? You're saying that the savings are moving men to cheaper devices. Do these men lose their qualifications for the aircraft they used to fly for that purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u86	You must make a very good difference between combat ready and basic combat ready. Basic combat ready means that one can switch to combat ready in the short term. Combat-ready pilots are trained in the plane they're flying, which makes sense to me. In the next answer I will come back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u87	I remember two things. Firstly, you hope and count on the commission of EUR 100 million. We shall see what is left of it after budgetary control. Secondly, cases are leaked with the intention of demonstrating how much savings are being made. You say that the character of the document is provisional. Are the figures you have just given on percentage and amounts obtained in the 2015 savings or can we expect any changes to that? You say that we will have the final plan in March, after budgetary control. Are the figures quoted by you provisional or acquired?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u88	Those are the numbers with which the Defense Department is working today. It's a precaution. Within the department, we are finalising budgetary control. In view of the really necessary investments, we are redeploying here and there. It's easy to say less so. Newspapers make sure the toilets aren't restored. That's juicy media material. The point is that at some point general principles must be translated into concrete actions. It was also stated, for example, that courses should no longer be printed. There is nowhere in the document or any other document that has been confirmed to me by the Staff that courses would no longer be available to the people they need. Wherever they got that, I don't know. It's probably an example someone's ever cited.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u89	Mr Minister, in order to avoid that kind of insinuations and stories in the future, I think it is right that Parliament should have a look at the document in March as a result of budgetary control when the document is completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u90	This will be discussed during the debate on budgetary control in committee. I suspect this is the normal course of action.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u91	Minister, on 14 January last, Jens Frans, VRT journalist, said during an interview on the radio that some senior officers, including three generals, continue to fly sports aircraft on Friday afternoons. He talks about Chief of Staff Van Caelenberghe and your chief of office. There'd be more. Given the budgetary reality at the moment, this is absolutely incomprehensible, all the more so because the drastic savings in the army, the air force and the staff are having major consequences. The new flight plan, which determines who can fly hours after the savings, shows that all aircraft have to stay more grounded, except the sport aircraft. Maybe that's what you allude to when you're talking about training. The chief of staff's response to this is to maintain his flight experience. Your reaction was to urge the army to be cautious. Mr. Secretary, can you confirm the events? Can you justify the facts? What is the cost per flight time for the aircraft and how many hours is it? What measures will you take to urge the army to be cautious? Do you agree with me that the army merely calls for caution in the budgetary context to be an absolutely inadequate measure or a minimum measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u92	Minister, according to press releases, according to the previous speaker, the military union is not able to talk about the savings that are being made in the army. The trade union is particularly angry at the fact that some high-ranking officers would still be allowed to fly sports aircraft from the army. Mr Top has already referred to three generals who, for their pleasure, could continue to fly sports aircraft, including the Chief of Staff and your Head of Cabinet. In reply to the previous question, you said that the new flight plan should be saved. All planes will have to be grounded more. That would not be the case only for the sports aircraft. These aircraft could be operated for another 50 hours a year in proportion to the amount of EUR 500 per flight time. We have been able to read several arguments which should justify the measure. For the Chief of Staff, reference is made to his role as an example. That he wants to continue to fly on for that reason would be a very lean argument. It is also reported that this is necessary in the context of training in order to remain operational. There are, however, directly negative votes, which say that one can only stay operational by practicing with that particular type of aircraft and flying it for a number of hours. Fifty hours with a sports plane wouldn't be enough to keep someone operational. All that's in the conditional mode. It's about messages we've read. However, my question is, of course, whether all the reports are correct. Firstly, is it true that it is not on the sports aircraft but on the other aircraft that is saved? Can you clarify the current situation in this respect and on the basis of the new flight plan? Secondly, can you give us immediately what the sports aircraft serve and who effectively flies with them? Thirdly, is it true that one can be operational by flying only those sports aircraft? If that is not the case, can you indicate how many soldiers flying the sports aircraft are operational and how many are not operational? Fourth, on which plane is the Chief of Staff operational pilot? Finally, Minister, do you not think it would be desirable for the flight hours which would now be taken for pleasure by senior officers to be fully released for the benefit of young operational pilots?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u93	Mr Minister, my question naturally builds on the questions put by my fellow Members on the savings note. I, too, want to get that savings note, and I will explain to you why. You must admit that it is quite absurd and rather embarrassing for us, members of the Committee on Defence, to note that there are indeed valuable and newsworthy things in the note, but that the discussion about it is being held in the press, without us being able to participate in it, because we do not have that note. I understand that it is a working paper, but it was, in a sense, the starting note for the discussions between the cabinet and the administration. In this sense, it is an important note and I think we are absolutely entitled to it. So I repeat my question that I want a copy of it. I would now like to talk specifically about the savings at the top of the defense, with an example of what emerged, the Marchetti flights of the Chief of Defense and others. I have a number of questions about this. First of all, who are the non-organic pilots, like the Chief of Defense, who continue to fly at defense's expense? What's their age? What is the relevance for the Defense of continuing training, especially in view of the likelihood that such persons will ever return to an operational unit? Secondly, how many flight hours and what aircraft are we talking about? What is the total cost? Apparently, these are Marchettis, Alpha Jets, F-16s, helicopters and so on. Third, can you get us a list? Fourthly, did the Chief of Defense decide to stop those flights by now? If that has not yet happened, what next steps will you take? I read in the press that you have called for common sense, but is that enough? If you're serious about the savings within the Defense Department, shouldn't you carry out a survey of the extent to which savings can be made, including at the top of the Defense Department? Fifthly, will you also ask the other pilots who will not return to an operational unit? Sixthly, is it true that the table of maneuvering days, sailing days and flight hours in the 2015 budget is now outdated and updated? I understand from your previous answer that that is the case. What shifts are being made? Can you get us the new tables? Seventh, is it true that helicopter pilots are being asked to convert to Marchetti pilots, as a saving measure? Finally, is it true that current investments have been set to zero, which has a major impact on staff well-being? Just now it was about the toilets. Those are concrete stories that reach us. They may be anecdotal but it is difficult to deny that they have an impact on the comfort of the staff in specific barracks. I want to confront you with an example. Is it true that the students in Saffronberg were initially not even budgeted for washing the sheets? Is that settled in the meantime? Is it true that the students in Saffronberg no longer get handouts from PowerPoint performances but have to overwrite everything again?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I will not answer any questions about individuals, anyone. I do not think it is customary in this House to discuss individual files publicly, even when it comes to the Chief of Defence. With all due respect to the journalists who have done what they have to do, I believe that publishing a list of people who are or are not competent to fly is not very good. The same applies to health reasons or whatever. We are talking here specifically about an element on which I am about to answer you. First, I would like to express my reservations about the public printing of names, and not just names of persons such as my head of the cabinet or the Chief of Defense. Other people also circulate names with a cross next to them when someone is able to fly, while some names appeared without a cross. I have reservations about that. I think we have crossed the line of decency here. However, I believe that certain remarks are quite justified. At the time of my appointment, I commissioned a budget to be drawn up for 2015 with a final saving of EUR 225 million. I have formulated two basic restrictions from the outset. Firstly, I want the army to remain operational in 2015, and secondly, this operational employability must be possible without in any way compromising the security requirements for our staff. I said at the time that I expected a plan for 2015 from the general staff against budgetary control. It must be a detailed plan, which meets my two objectives. The plan must also bear witness to common sense in the distribution of savings throughout the department. The note in question and all the fuss that has come after it must be seen in that context. It is a note from the Chief of Defence to his staff, containing guidelines on the preparation of budgetary control. I can tell you that, when budgetary control is presented to Parliament, we will, of course, present all the tables. That's pretty obvious. It's also the usual way of doing things. You asked to see the note absolutely, Mr De Vriendt. I would like to make it available to the secretariat, but with the explanation that it is a working document, which has already been adapted interactively several times. It was actually withdrawn and replaced by another. I am wondering whether we really need to make any preparatory document public, because a journalist or someone else is able to distribute documents with the help of a favourable wind. What should be discussed here are the final choices we make. As a minister, I like to be judged by the choices I make. I do not know whether the process and the preparation which precedes the choices should be subject to the permanent control of Parliament. If that is your opinion, say it, then we will show even more transparency than we do today. I did not say, Mr De Vriendt, that I like the fact that there is a story in the media that I have no control over. I don't like that. I do not like the fact that internal documents from the Defense Department, whatever they may contain, and whatever concerns they may have, are simply distributed in the media. That also forces me to react, which I would have preferred until the time is right. The department is therefore effectively finalising this week's proposal for budgetary control, as is customary. The government will discuss the proposal at several meetings which will take place, but the broad lines have already been explained in the past. I'm going into the Marchettis. I just tried to explain the story of the basic combat ready pilots. Staff officers who are certified pilots, mainly senior officers, with a serious degree, i.e., aged between 35 and retirement age, carry out flight performances linked to military pilot status. It is therefore a statutory requirement. A military pilot must perform a number of flight hours per trimester. 70 percent of officers also perform these performances effectively on Marchettis. This so-called sport aircraft is in reality a training aircraft used for the initial training of new pilots and for the maintenance of basic combat ready pilots. The flight plan for the Marchettis has remained unchanged, as I have just mentioned, but I will repeat it, because the reduction of the flight plan on other types of aircraft has the effect that some pilots are now effectively performing their flight performance on the Marchettis, training planes that are generally a lot cheaper. In order to absorb the additional number of pilots, the flight plan of the training aircraft had to be maintained. Now a non-organic pilot performs fifty hours on his assigned aircraft, with the exception of the pilots on transporters for which a hundred hours are planned. This allows them to maintain their basic qualification and to ensure flight safety. The flight performance is performed in solo command or dual command, depending on the type of device. In total, we are talking about 2 925 hours of flight time, for which the variable cost totals 4.3 million euros. So this is about the total number of training flights. It also concerns 1 700 hours on Marchetti, 350 hours on F-16, 350 hours on C-130, 200 hours on A-109 (Agusta), 25 hours on Sea King, 100 hours on Falcon 900, 100 hours on Embraer and 100 hours on Airbus. The variable cost for a flight time on Marchetti is 290 euros per hour. You can then calculate for yourself what it gives globally for 1 700 hours. It represents 10% of the global variable cost of training. For example, it is somewhat framed in the overall budgetary picture. The list of non-organic pilots cannot be delivered nominatingly for safety reasons, but if you absolutely want to see that list, I am prepared to submit it to the secretariat of this committee, where it can be accessed. Now I come to the Chief of Defense. He is carrying out his statutory flight performance there we have again that statutory pilots in accordance with the guidelines for non-organic pilots. No other steps should be taken, according to the Staff, not even with regard to other pilots. Consequently, it is also true that in the context of the savings measures a number of non-organic helicopter pilots carry out their flight performance on the cheaper Marchetti, the aircraft on which they also followed their basic training. All these measures are important, because they are always trying to tell a story about them. They do not mean that young pilots have to stay on the ground. The non-organic pilots fly with a cheaper aircraft to effectively realize their flight hours. Finally, there is a revision of the Staff Regulations. The statute is important and that is my own contribution. I have just said that a number of hours will be carried out in accordance with the Staff Regulations. The revision of the statute and qualifications will also be part of the strategic plan. Mr De Vriendt, it is true that new investment programmes were deleted in the initial budget, including current investments. Budgetary control, which is now being prepared, will attempt to include the most urgent investments in the budget. Now I come to your specific question about the sheets of Saffronberg. Defence has a wet-washing and dry-cleaning contract, as it is called, with Rapid-Rapitex for washing, among other things, sheets. On 21 January, that company carried out a first collection. A second collection took place on 26 January. There are five days in between; we wash our sheets less often at home. No directive was issued if due to budgetary constraints no handouts should be produced and distributed for the benefit of students taking courses at the KSOO Saffronberg.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u95	Mr. Secretary, I have another thought. You've already answered a piece of my reply. Your main concern is that the army will be operationally operational as far as possible in 2015. You want to be judged on those results. I'll make the link to the number of flight hours. Without mentioning any names, I'll be talking about the senior officers. There is, of course, the link to the statutory rules, which are there, so one must consciously ask what the necessary training means and who should be given them in order to have an army as operational as possible. I am therefore pleased to hear that in the new vision and in the future plan you will take into account those statutory rules, with the greatest attention being paid to the operationality of the pilots, to the right man or woman in the right place.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u96	Minister, I would like to thank you for your detailed answer. I understand that you make specific names available to the members of the committee and that you do not want to have that discussion here. However, it might have been an opportunity to smash all the rumors with name and name. An atmosphere had arisen that suggested that unnecessary flying hours and hours with sports planes were flown purely for fun. That is not possible at all, but it is now clear that this is not happening and that you are not going to tolerate it either. The reports were correct to the extent that it was mentioned that 50 hours of flying time with the sports planes was not enough to keep someone operational. You answered that question. I understand it's just meant to be basic combat ready. Can you explain how much extra training is needed to move from basic combat ready to combat ready?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u97	It's a complicated case. A difference must be made between different groups. There are the senior officers on the staff, who used to fly F-16s and for whom now no cockpit seat F-16 is available. Those are the people we identify with potential to become operational again later in the system as a pilot and thus to return to a unit. Those people are the operational reserve we really want to give 50 hours to. By the way, there are also some that continue to fly on F-16. Those are the youngest. The older one gets, the less one gets to deal with an operational device. Someone who, for example, is a colonel and who may already be in the pipeline to become the base commander of an F-16 base, we will fly as much as possible on Marchetti. He'll have 50 hours. Now take my case. Statutoryly, I have to provide a number of performances. I have to fly nine hours a trimester. You can check my flight books. I've been flying 38 hours a year for the last four to five years. So I try to fly 9 times 10 hours a trimester. Are those fun flights? Actually, no. I try to register as much as possible in the training program of the youngsters. Our young people, for example, must learn to fly in formation. That requires a leader. If I can then and I'm available not on a Friday afternoon........................................................................................................................................................... There's an instructor with a student on a different plane. We're also trying to promote that older colonels and lieutenant colonels do as much training as possible if they're flying for 50 hours. They have to go there not only to do their nine hours, but to fly with a young man, a student, and to do a training flight as part of their training. We're all trying to differentiate that a little bit. The current statute says that nine hours per trimester is required if we are to maintain our pilot status. That is what the Minister said. That is for discussion, and we are considering whether all this still needs to be done and how we will do it. If you don't, you'll be on a no fly-list, something that can be done for different reasons. Someone temporarily medically unfit is on the no fly-list. At the moment we want to limit them to allow as many people as possible to fly, but that is now being studied. I hope this makes sense, it's not that black and white.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u98	Thank you for the clarification, that was helpful. I realise that it is not an easy exercise to use everything as efficiently as possible in a saving operation. I therefore assume, Minister, that your remarks just now to my reply that I expected more answers were intended as a joke. After all, it is everyone's tax money that goes here, not just from the Limburg N-VA voters. This must be used as efficiently as possible. You have reassured me in part that this is being used with the necessary austerity and as efficiently as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u99	Minister, you cannot vote for me either, but I would like to thank you for the explanation. The only one in this room who can vote for me is Alain Top. It's unlikely he'll do that. I would like to comment on the offer to look into the Chief of Defense's savings note. I understand that we can debate it. Whether every preparatory note should be available to Parliament, I leave it in the middle. If the note is discussed publicly, that's the border. Then the Members of this House should also be able to look at that note. About Saffronberg, the examples I gave, current investment. Actually, you're saying there's no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u100	No, that's not true. What I am about to say has nothing to do with Saffronberg because I do not know the specific situation. If the mission comes from above to save, it can be imagined that in the execution one says: 'I will have them now and I am not going to do something that is obvious anymore'. You understand there may come from a form of protest that is stupid. That's a signal. The general principle must be common sense. If the laundry is collected twice in five days, it may be too much. I don't know. I don't make statements about the opportunity. Nor do I, as a minister, intend to engage at that microlevel of management. I think it is my job to say that we are all going together towards a balance in 2018 and we are trying to survive in between in a way where we use common sense and we are now working on a strategic plan with vision for the future. That's the bottom line. So I absolutely do not want to say that there is nothing wrong. There are a lot of things going on, Mr De Vriendt.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic087x.u101	The comfort of the staff must not be compromised. The attractiveness of Defense as an employer decreases differently. There's a need for new young people. I understand a number of senior officers are using the Marchetti sports aircraft. This does not mean that young pilots must remain grounded. We can ask ourselves whether it is necessary for the senior officers to use those aircraft. We need to make savings. Some savings in the Defense Department can be legitimate and justified. It is good news that you want to revise the statute. Whether that is the result of the fuss in the press I leave it in the middle. I trust that you will address this question effectively. Is it necessary for senior officers, whom we know with certainty that they are no longer operational, to use so many training hours with the Marchetti team? This is a fair question and we need to ask them out loud. You have called for common sense in the media. I hope that you will make that concrete and that you will effectively make some legitimate savings. It's about attitude but also about consequence. If everyone in the Defense Department has to save money, then everyone really has to do it.
