ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u1	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Minister, I am really happy to be able to ask this question. I did not wish to turn it into a written question. I introduced it a while ago. Even if you have mentioned this in the policy notes, not being an effective member of this committee, it is impossible for Members to participate in all the discussions that often take place at the same time. This question is important to me because it affects front-line justice, proximity justice. Your government's agreement was to streamline justice of the peace, which is the level of justice closest to the citizen. The first phase announced was the removal of seats considered supernumerary. We are therefore told that 42 seats will be closed, most of them located in Wallonia. There are 187 cantons in Belgium and 229 seats in total today, since there are several seats in the extended cantons. The principle announced in this first phase is to keep one per canton. Do you or do you not confirm this principle, minister? Moreover, what underlies this reform is savings that would be realized in the real estate stock of the Régie des Bâtiments for these decentralized justices of peace. The actors on the ground do not seem to be heard. In the press on 5 November, the president of the justices of the peace in the province of Luxembourg, Eric Robert, said: "The people who are to be tried will have to travel longer. (...) A justice close to the citizen - speaking of justice of peace - who is not in arrears and who is ready to absorb new skills, which the Minister of Justice does not seem to want to hear." I quote Mr. Robert. My colleagues and I can argue at length about the usefulness of justices of peace that resolve conflicts in proximity, dialogue, consultation, mediation, which is a very fashionable and useful concept; mediation avoids further burdening other levels of justice, unnecessary procedures and trials: neighbourhood conflicts, disputes between tenants and owners, leases on a farm, consumer rights, various issues between customers and suppliers, customers and contractors, etc. All these questions are settled in the vicinity. In relation to the question of one seat per canton, a geographical problem arises. I observe that in the list of offices announced as being closed, Philippeville, capital of borough but also canton, is mentioned, and Rochefort, also a canton, is mentioned. In my province alone, I have several seats that disappear while the principle was to maintain one seat per canton. So I have two specific questions for you, Minister. In the district of Dinant, the situation is quite worrying since Beauraing's justice of peace is already attached to Dinant and you remove that of Gedinne. This district in the Dinant district represents ten communes, 62,000 inhabitants, but above all a territory of 92,000 hectares, just under 1,000 square kilometres and 105 former communes. They are mostly villages. Given the relief, the lack of public transport, etc., it is obvious that a mega-justice of this size will be much less accessible, especially for our fellow citizens who probably need it most. That's for the first phase. As far as the second phase is concerned, it is a question of merging cantons and it is stipulated "in the cities". But in the cities, this also means in the countryside and the provinces, since we are also talking about a fusion of justices of peace in the district of Philippeville: 7 communes, 65,000 inhabitants, 90,000 hectares as well. From then on, will Couvin's seat, which today will host the justice of peace in Philippeville, be maintained during this second phase or will you envisage, as the press indicates, merging the four justices of peace of the district of Philippeville: Couvin, Philippeville, Florennes, Walcourt, in a building, in an administrative center, which must also group the finances in Philippeville, capital of arrondissement? In this case, we are again faced with an inaccessible mega-justice of peace. I don't even mention the third phase. When the first two are completed, I don't know what else can be merged. At that time, one per province or one per region. In view of "the justice under the tree", this concept was created by Louis IX, Saint-Louis. This reference should please you! In this regard, Judge Éric Robert of Luxembourg says: "The idea may be attractive on paper, but it is difficult to be practical". In particular, he refers to the difficulties of computerization of the Department of Justice, which makes it difficult to have an office that is operational and connected to the courts to render a service. Finally, this justice under the tree is in a way the mask-sex of a messy and useless concentration and, on the other hand, an antenna is established, which is later removed. So the service no longer exists! So I really regret that the Department of Justice is not spared the austerity that your government is putting in place and that this public service is being stifled, including front-line services. That, Mr. Chairman, is my considerations and my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u2	Mr President, Minister, in the chapters "Masterplan Courthouses' and "Judge Court cantons' of 18 March, you write: "In the Master Plan for Courthouses presented to the Council of Ministers by the end of 2015, the large number of courthouses will be subject to a thorough rationalization exercise which will eventually lead to a significant reduction in the number of courthouses and a more centralised building management. Slightly further, it states: "In order to improve the division of labour between the peace courts, efforts will be made to significantly reduce the number of peace dishes in a phased way." At the beginning of October, the Federal Parliament approved the decision to reduce the number of peace courts. On what criteria are certain peace courts closed and others are not closed? Is there a proper balance between the rental price and the operating conditions of buildings on the one hand and the selling price of the buildings on the other? How will we resolve the disappearance of the peace process in certain municipalities and cities? Will meetings be held in other locations in accordance with the Master Plan? Was the fee for the use of those sites or for those new locations also taken into account? Can you provide a list of the current peace courts, peace courts, the possible ownership situation and the cost and rent of these buildings, as well as a list of the new peace courts and associations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u3	Mr President, Minister, I have been persevering for months and months now, through my parliamentary questions, in order to obtain clarification on the future of the Courthouse in Tournai. The basis of my questioning came from my fear of seeing an important place of justice located in Tournai moving to Mons, when promises had been made in 2009 by Mr Reynders and Mr. De Clerck, Minister of Finance and Minister of Justice at the time, concerning the construction of a new courthouse in the City of Five Bell Towers. My question is based on austerity measures taken by your government, your "Masterplan Palace of Justice" mentioning the rationalization of infrastructure and buildings, the judicial organisation and the reduction of budget by 10% in the space of four fiscal years. Minister, I am aware of the FPS Justice's visit a few days ago to the Courthouse in Tournai. What was the nature of this visit? Is this the famous "discreet visit" that Mrs Marghem had mentioned in the press? Finally, you announced to me that the "Masterplan Palace of Justice" would be released at the end of the year. Here we are in December, I assume you have some details on the way out of this plan. Can you tell me more? Thank you already for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u4	Mr President, Minister, what should be added? I believe that the picture is already particularly complete. You have announced a project in several phases. The first point would be to preserve only one justice of peace per canton, and then to merge certain cantons. If I recall correctly, you made it clear in the presentation of your general policy note, even if it did not appear as such in the note, that certain cantons should be merged in the cities. And in a third phase, you were proposing to redraw the map of the cantons. Here are my questions. What is the fate of the seats that have remained outstanding? I assume that resources will be made available for this reform. Another problem lies in the fate of the staff of each affected peace justice, that is, those who will disappear. Do you already have any ideas for reassignment? And what will happen to the different buildings of the deleted seats? I guess you're thinking of selling these. I'd like you to confirm that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the justice plan announces that an exercise will be carried out with regard to the high number of justices of peace in our country. Belgium has 187 justices of the peace with a total of 229 seats. The government agreement, supported by requests from the judiciary itself, provides for a reorganization of the judicial cantons in order to achieve a better distribution of the workload between the justices of the peace. This will be carried out on the basis of a three-phase plan which will also require some legislative changes. A first phase consists of the centralization to a single seat of the cantons with two or more seats. Secondly, a second phase will examine whether administrative cantons located in contiguous urban areas and/or located in the same building can be grouped together. Finally, in a third phase, in accordance with the government agreement, the map itself of the judicial cantons will be redesigned. With regard to the first phase, these are justices of peace where a justice of peace has two or three seats/buildings. In the province of Namur, these are the cantons of Ciney-Rochefort, Gembloux-Eghezée, Couvin-Philippeville, Beauraing-Dinant-Gedinne, Florennes-Walcourt. In selecting the location for the centralization of the double and triple cantons, account was taken of the location, condition and status of the building, the preference expressed by the justices of the peace concerned, taking into account the most convenient location and workload, cost efficiency. The list is being validated and should be finalized shortly. For phase 1, I hope to be able to submit the list to the nuclear cabinet in the very short term. For Phases 2 and 3, which are largely the same, we are preparing proposals together with the peace judges. I hope to complete that early 2016. The criteria for Phase 2 and 3 are partly different from those for Phase 1. Additional account will be taken of population figures, area, density, number of cases, housing and care centres, psychiatric centres and hospitals and economic data such as average income or unemployment rates. For the two final phases no further details can yet be given for the simple reason that the exercise is still ongoing. This does not prevent that in places where there will be a closure, it is possible to maintain sessions "under the tree". This will continue to ensure accessibility and proximity to areas where this is necessary. In such cases, it is possible to negotiate with the municipality whether one of its buildings could be used to hold periodic meetings. A request will be made to the municipalities concerned. Of course, when this is applied, a series of equipment will have to be installed there, such as an appropriate computer. As far as the means are concerned, it is clear that this is a cost reduction operation that will bring millions to the federal state. The buildings that have left will of course be sold or their leases will be terminated. The impact of this first phase on staff is minimal. In many places, there was already mobility from seat to seat. In this case, the officers remained active in the same justice system. Finally, I would like to point out that this "Justice for Peace Plan", which is already being drawn up, is part of a larger whole, namely the Masterplan of Judicial Buildings. We're working on it. However, I can tell you that the recent visit of my services to Tournai is in no way linked to it. At present, employees of the Federal Public Service Justice are working almost daily in Tournai to prepare for the move of the civil section of the court of first instance from the courthouse to Rue du Château. This move has been planned for years but has remained blocked until recently due to legal proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u6	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the answers he has given us, which remain in the three phases of the plan. I have a first comment on the history of the cantons. I think Mitterrand said that the determining factor in history and politics is geography. If I understand correctly, in the first phase, you are already merging cantons without waiting for the second phase. You quote Rochefort, Philippeville, Florennes-Walcourt. These are cantons that would justify maintaining their justice of peace in the first phase. If you then say that in the second phase, you will merge them, it is your decision. But it seems to me that there is a contradiction since you say that in the first phase, a justice of peace per canton is maintained while in fact you merge it. Second, you did not answer me about the borough of Philippeville. Is it your intention to merge the four justices of peace to Philippeville, where the Régie des Bâtiments is building an administrative centre for finance? Is it your intention to maintain Couvin or to gather the four at the headquarters of Philippeville? Could I have a more specific answer to this question? I have a general comment: you confirm that the operation will bring millions back to the state. So you follow a purely budgetary logic and not a logic of public service and justice close to the citizen. However, considerable investment in information technology will have to be made, particularly for decentralization, since people in the field say that the system is quite defective at the moment. An investment plan is needed to make this decentralization operational, particularly in the IT junction. Is such a plan planned? Two of my questions remain unanswered, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u7	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the answer. In addition to my colleague's reply, there is something not quite clear to me about the course of the various phases. I understand one seat per canton and then execution, bring seats together and then later reform cantons. I do not understand that in phase 1 in the province of West Flanders there is already a knowledge that a number of peace dishes close. This seems to me to be a preliminaries to the next stages that have not yet been decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u8	Minister, thank you for your answer, although it does not really satisfy me. You say your services came to Tournai to arrange the move. All right. My question then is: What are you going to do next? I have been wondering about this for several months. Two of your predecessors had claimed that the courthouse would be renovated. Now, you're just telling me that some services will be moved, knowing that the lease from where we move is going to end very soon. But what happens next? You still don't answer me. So I'll come back and ask you about the future of the Courthouse in Tournai. Since the time I ask you the question, you always answer: "Don't worry, Mr. Delannois: in December, I will inform you of the main guidelines". Today is December 9. So I'm sure you already know more or less where you want to go. The question is: will the courthouse in Tournai be renovated? I consider you to be a methodical and orderly person. At the moment, however, it seems to me that you are not well surrounded. You're seeing too many people who always do it at the last minute, whether it's for the climate or nuclear power plants. That would have to stop. If you abandon the courthouse in Tournai, just tell me. It's either yes or no. In addition, when you announce that you will see with the municipalities what you can do with some empty buildings, I would like to reply that I do not want to be cocufied twice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u9	Minister, I will be less trivial than my colleague, but if you have any questions, it is to draw your attention to certain problems. I advise you to go to the bottom of Luxembourg, in Namurois or Hainaut so that you can see the difficulties that people can face. Sometimes there is no direct bus link between two points that are currently served by a justice of the peace. There may be one, but then you have a bus at 6, 7, 8, 9 a.m., etc. Some people who want to go to justice for 9 a.m. take the bus at 7 a.m. to make sure they don't arrive late. But we know that the litigants pass after the lawyers. They will wait until 11 a.m.-11.30 a.m. in order to eventually pass and then be able to return home in the opposite direction with an hour's drive. This is the reality of tomorrow for a whole series of litigants. You have to be aware of that. Moreover, the presence of justices of peace in public buildings other than those dependent on the State already exists. I know of them in Hainaut in particular, which have agreements with communal buildings, communal houses. I pleaded myself in a justice of peace that was in the wedding room of a communal building. I am not saying that there must be no redistribution, no restructuring. It is true that a large city such as Charleroi, which is in principle well served by public transport, can ask itself the question of the number of justices of peace and centralization. But pay attention to restricting access to justice for a whole range of people who do not live in highly urbanised areas, whether it is the Entre-Sambre-et-Meuse trail, Brussels or Flanders. They must be able to defend themselves properly. I would like to draw your attention to this point in order to avoid too uniform and far-reaching measures being taken in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u10	Mr President, I would like to have a supplementary reply as regards the justices of peace in the district of Philippeville. Are you considering, in a second phase, recentralizing the justice system in an administrative centre in Philippeville?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u11	I do not want to be "not accessible" to use Mr Massin's words, but it is difficult for me to answer detailed questions here, at a time when the decision has not yet been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u12	But you're working on it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u13	I have read the cantons with double or triple seat in the province of Namur!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u14	That's incorrect! Geographically speaking, your remarks are incorrect! If the principle is a cantonal justice of peace, your theory does not hold. These are separate cantons. So Rochefort should keep a justice of peace as well as Florennes, Philippeville and Walcourt. They're cantons! If the principle is a cantonal justice of peace...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u15	I've been talking about five cantons, Mr. Delizée!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u16	But you remove Rochefort and Philippeville, which are cantons!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u17	Did you listen to me?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u18	Yes! Or I didn't understand you or you didn't understand me!- Is that what you're saying? I don't know!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u19	I said that, "in the province of Namur, these are the following cantons with double or triple seat" and I read you five cantons!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u20	Some of them are deleted!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u21	No, I don't! I said that, in these cantons, we must make the choice between the different seats within the same canton!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u22	But Philippeville is not in the canton of Couvin or vice versa! In this regard, we do not understand each other!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u23	Mr Delizée, in order not to block the committee's work, I invite you to read the answer again!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u24	I'll repeat myself so that it's clear...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u25	I heard you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u26	No, I don't think so! ...with the necessary dots and commas! I said: "In the province of Namur, these are the following cantons with two or three seats/buildings: Ciney-Rochefort; Gembloux-Eghezée, Couvin-Philippeville; Beauraing-Dinant-Gedinne; Florennes-Walcourt.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u27	Philippeville-Couvin is not a canton. These are two cantons! Ciney-Rochefort is not a township, but two! I am therefore saying that, in the first phase, it is not the principle of justice of peace per canton, you are already merging it from the first phase! That is my point of view!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u28	Mr Delizée, you will be aware of the answer!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u29	Minister, we are now going to the other side of the country, to Veurne. My question isn't about the peace court, it's about the whole department. Within the court of first instance for West Flanders, department Veurne, there is currently great unrest about the possible abolition of this department, both the parquet and the seat. You would have confirmed this during a recent visit, and argued, among other things, that part of the lawyer would not mind; the department would now be quite difficult to reach, and the lawyers would not look forward to a transfer to Bruges. I'm not saying that. I've heard that say. Moreover, due to the large staff shortage and poor working conditions, inspections have been carried out. The employer, the FPS Justice, received a warning, and a delay of one month to respond to the many comments and findings of infringements, and to submit a plan of regularisation. Firstly, what actions do you intend to take in the short term to respond to the comments made following the visits? Secondly, is it true that Veurne's courthouse will be closed? If so, when will that happen? Are you planning specific measures for the transfer of the magistrate and the judicial staff to Bruges? Thirdly, can you confirm that the services of the auditorate have already been transferred to Bruges? Fourthly, are other departments in this province or other provinces threatened with closure? If so, which one? Is this not contrary to the clear statements made in connection with the reform of the judicial landscape, namely that the current seats would be preserved? That was a promise from the previous legislature. Fifth, what will happen to Veurne's courthouse after the possible removal from court?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u30	At the beginning of this year, Minister, there was concern about the possible abolition of the Veurne section. Questions were asked about this in this committee at the time. You replied that it was a reflection on savings, but nothing had yet been decided. The building in which the court is housed is rented by the Government of the Buildings. The FPS Finance is also housed there. The rent is approximately EUR 1 206 000 per year, of which EUR 700 000 is charged to the Justice Department and the rest to the Finance Department. The lease will run until 31 December 2030, which means 15 more years. In the meantime, you have received a motion to preserve the court in Veurne from several municipalities. An action group has been set up under the name "Rechtbank Veurne Staats" ("Rechtbank Veurne Staats"). In the meantime, they have collected some 5 000 signatures. If I am well informed, you received a Veurn delegation on 13 November last. By the end of this year, you will normally come up with a master plan for court buildings. The court of Veurne may also be part of this. Recently I learned that in the meantime the measure was taken to make the investigating judge of the Veurne department work from Bruges. He would receive assistance from clerks and employees because of the large staff shortage in Veurne. This was communicated to the local lawyers. From now on, preliminaries and bourgeois parties will have to be filed in Bruges. I would like to ask you for an update today. Is this thinking path still being walked? Is there a deadline? Can you shed some light on this file today? The Court Buildings Master Plan was announced before the end of this year. In your policy paper, you will also talk about its implementation in 2016. Can you clarify the matter of the Veurne court?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u31	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, your question refers to a visit from me to Veurne. I would have said certain things there. I can tell you that, although such a visit is planned, I have not yet been on the spot. As for whether or not to retain the court, I can tell you the following. I have often said that we are working on a Master Plan for Court buildings. Many criteria are taken into account for this exercise, but no decision has yet been taken. The reflection phase is still ongoing. This is separate from a recent report from the FOD WASO that we have received. In fact, a number of comments were made in that report. The competent department in my administration will take the necessary steps and follow up. An official response will be delivered to the inspection service in good time, before the end of the month, with all action points. Finally, I can confirm that the services of the auditorate have not been transferred to Bruges. Nor do I answer a hypothetical question because it has not yet been raised.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u32	Minister, it is particularly important that there should be rapid clarity because it does not help to create a good working environment in the Veurne court if the rumours of a possible closure persist. The new information from my colleague Lahaye-Battheu shows that the investigating judge is already sending people to Bruges to file complaints and such. In the long run, emptying is organized and a vicious circle is created because people leave and no new ones can be attracted, people become sick and so on. If the decision is taken to maintain the seat in Veurne, it is important that this is communicated very clearly and quickly. Investment will also have to be made to put the operation back on track as quickly as possible and to restore people's confidence. That also means investment in the building itself, because the report is also clear on that point. Finally, when we discussed judicial reform in Parliament, it was always said that, as I said in my question, we would go to one court at a provincial level, but that the seats would be retained. If the decision to close Veurne were taken now, it would run counter to the very clear commitments made to maintain the seats. So I look forward to your Masterplan Courts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u33	Minister, I support the call for clarity in the short term, because there are many questions already from the beginning of this year. I therefore hope that it will be possible to clarify matters in the short term. I also agree with Mr Van Hecke's comment on the promise to keep the seats. I would therefore ask you to be consistent in the dossier, Minister, and not to ignore all the arguments put forward by Veurne and the action group.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u34	On Saturday, October 31, the press unveiled the outline of your project for a new Masterplan for prisons, third of the name, in which the construction of new establishments is announced, as well as the expansion and renovation of existing infrastructures. Your overall goal would be to increase from 10,062 to 10,339 available seats. As a reminder, at the end of October there were 11,069 detainees in 35 prisons in Belgium. A new element of the guidelines reported by the press is the establishment of transitional houses, with a capacity of about 100 places, according to the press description, to accommodate prisoners enrolled in a release process, with a view to promoting their social reintegration at the end of the sentence. This new process, a priori commendable, has received my full attention and I would like to know the following details. How many transitional houses do you intend to build and in what direct environment, in terms of geographical location? What will be the time frame for implementation? What categories of prisoners will be affected by a visit to these transitional houses? What will be the accompanying tools available to these houses in order to ensure the optimal reintegration of prisoners? What budget will be allocated to the entire process?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u35	Minister, this is not the first time, and rest assured, it is not purely obsessive on my part, that I am asking you in this context. I have been interested in the problem of justice in the Verviers district for many years. For many years, a number of important decisions have been expected. So I'm not going back to history. That doesn't happen every day, minister, but on November 7th, exactly, I was pleased with you. I was discovering in Le Soir the Minister's Masterplan. First of all, I rejoiced: the minister confirmed that in Verviers we were going to rebuild a prison of 240 individual cells on this prison that had been closed. This corresponds to the demand of the political authorities, all parties, of the district of Verviers. This was supported by the entire judicial world, which sent you, two months ago, a letter informing you of this wish for Verviers. Since I have a little experience in this house, I thought we should still be careful. My joy quickly turned into a question mark. Did the minister communicate his plan for transparency or did the plan fall off the truck, to use the phrase, and a journalist retrieve it? Or does this correspond to a firm decision? Does the Minister have the government's bail? Is it possible, minister, to answer the following questions? At first, it would be enough to answer yes or no, and I will be happy: will there be a prison on the site of the old prison in Verviers? Then come the traditional questions: what is the timing, when will workers and detainees be able to reintegrate Verviers? What will be the capacity of this new prison? What types of prisoners will be taken care of? Will there be a public-private partnership? And I add the following, because I am referring to it in the question that I have tabled; I am referring to a new information that we have not had so far, and that I am interested in as a Quebec provincial. Finally, you acknowledge that these attacks by giant moles that we talked about in the press at Lantin prison were indeed a reality. In any case, it was envisaged that the prison house would be completely demolished when it had been built for 40 years. This alternative for Verviers prison will not even exist in the long term. Minister, I expect you to make a firm commitment so that you can tell the Vervieto judicial world that there will be rapid reconstruction on the site of the former prison in Verviers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u36	Mr President, Mr Minister, in the face of Belgium's repeated condemnations by the European Court of Human Rights, in very strict terms, as regards the treatment of internees, you have decided that the management of these persons would no longer be the responsibility of the Directorate-General for Prisons. People would leave prisons to reach more medically-care facilities, such as legal psychiatry centres built in Antwerp or Ghent. No one, to my knowledge, pleads for the maintenance of psychiatric annexes to prisons, in Lantin, Forest, Jamioulx, Namur and Mons (in Wallonia) or in Brugge, Antwerpen, Leuven and Gent (in Flanders). But the question arises more clearly about Paifve's social defence institution. Paifve belongs to DG PPE and has been a special institution since 1972 for the reception of internees, combining social security and medical care. Paifve's management and staff have a project to maintain ESD within DG PPE by increasing intramural care and developing a closer partnership with Public Health. Unfortunately, so far this plan has not been taken into account. Instead, rumours that Paifve's ESD would be privatized and transformed into a legal psychiatry centre are heard. They were passed on to the Justice Committee on 7 October 2015 and were not denied. Paifve's staff released on 27 October following the receipt of a letter from the Justice FPS which tends to confirm them. Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you explain why the proposal by Paifve staff and management to develop the Justice-Health model was not taken into account? What is planned for the 256 people at risk of losing their jobs? Has there been since October 7th, when you remained evasive, a decision on the future of the Paifve ESD? What about the planned extension of 250 places to internees? Is this extension well planned on the Paifve site? This issue is of paramount importance for the maintenance of all staff, all socio-professional categories, in the Justice and Health model proposed by the management of the Paifve ESD. How many times has Paifve been condemned by the European Court of Human Rights? How do you justify the intention of bringing Paifve out of the fold of justice? Can you tell us, following the carte blanche which was published in Le Soir on 22 October 2005, which establishments in Belgium comply with the obligation, both legal and ethical, set out in the law of 12 January 2005, according to which a distinction is required between the tasks of care and expertise in the follow-up of internees? Finally, I understand that Paifve's ESD is unique in hosting high-risk patients, while it has been observed elsewhere that some private infrastructure is refusing patients who are too concerned or have near-zero reintegration prospects. If Paifve disappeared, what would be your specific offer for problematic internees? Thank you for your attention and answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u37	Minister, like my colleagues, I have become acquainted with the future Masterplan Prisons. More specifically, I was interested in the four decisions relating to Namur province. First of all, it concerns the abandonment of the project to build a prison in Sambreville for the benefit of Sugny, a village situated at the borders of France, in the commune of Vresse-sur-Semois, and the extension of the period of exploitation – if I may say so – of the urban prisons of Namur and Dinant. It is quite surprising that you wanted to build a prison in Sugny, on the site of an old NATO base, especially since there has been a project in Auvelais for years, which has gathered a local consensus – even if the clean-up of the ground is a problem. In addition, the Régie des Bâtiments has a much more accessible land in Achêne, a commune of Ciney, which could have accommodated this type of prison. If confirmed, this choice raises many questions as to how the government has taken into account issues relating to the proper use of available land, the mobility difficulties associated with an isolated prison – Sugny is one hour from Dinant and an hour and a half from Namur, without any motorway or very regular train or bus driving there. What about the impact of this expulsion on the reintegration of detainees and their families, but also on the actors of the justice system? What about secure travel costs? If you maintain your choice, you have to accept structurally high costs not only in budgetary terms, but also in social terms. So I would like to understand – even if I have a little idea – the motives that led to Sugny's choice. What criteria have you adopted for this purpose? How long has this trail been studied? Have you considered alternatives in Namur province? With which body have you negotiated? When will a feasibility study be completed? What is the estimated cost of infrastructure? What would be the architectural and energy characteristics? When will it be finalized? Who have you consulted in the world of justice? Indeed, many people were astonished at this choice. As much as I am critical of the choice to build a prison in Sugny, because its construction is expensive, so much can be done to validate the maintenance of the urban prisons of Namur and Dinant. However, they require significant investments to improve their living conditions and working conditions, worthy of the twenty-first century, because they are old prisons, in which no investment has been made in the construction of the Sambreville prison since they were to be decommissioned. I have regularly asked your predecessors about this. Work was announced in 2011 for the renovation of communication facilities, alarm and perimetric detection systems, the establishment of a monitoring centre, and the renovation of inmate showers. I do not know if you have ever visited Namur prison, but the situation is quite apocalyptic and again, the efficiency of energy management is also catastrophic in terms of public resources and environmental impact. A series of work was planned. As long as we are looking forward to the longer-term maintenance of this prison in Namur, we can imagine that more extensive work will be needed and that you will be working on it. We had this debate with the minister in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments as part of his general policy note and that he sent us back to you regarding these choices. Don't send us back to him, because if I like ping-pong, I don't like being the ball in the ping-pong game! Minister, as far as Namur is concerned, has the Régie des Bâtiments been involved in the preparation of the Masterplan? What tasks will be assigned to it in this context? What will be the budget? Are specific work planned in Namur? Have the 2011 ones been fully realized? With a view to maintaining Namur prison, has a further assessment of the work to be undertaken in the area of comfort, security and energy efficiency been carried out? What will be the necessary adjustments? What would be the cost? Within what time frame will they be achieved? Finally, do you confirm the maintenance of Dinant's prison? Its closure had been announced. Similarly, are renovations planned and planned? This seems to me necessary in any case as part of your masterplan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u38	To complete my colleague Georges Gilkinet's question, I would like to ask you about the announcement of the decision to build a prison in Sugny. If the measure is confirmed, consider compensation for the situation of isolation and the location of the prison, as Mr Gilkinet described. What is the status of the current procedure? At what stage are you in the project? What type of funding is envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u39	The future of the Paifve social defence institution has been widely discussed by my colleague Willy Demeyer. My concern is about the very notion of social defence and it seems to me that we are moving towards a health-oriented system, whereas social defence is a legal measure that combines the aspects of safety, care and health. If the system works in Flanders, I have already had the opportunity several times to tell you that Paifve was a special case in the sense that it has extremely heavy cases and that the particular system at work does not fall within the existing definitions. I am concerned about the very notion of social defence. I am not worried about staff who are statutory and will be reassigned to other institutions. Social protection will no longer be met if we switch to a system dedicated solely to care. I'd like to have some information on this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u40	Mr President, Minister, last but not least I would like to go to the other side of the country, the Ypres prison. Great works have been going on there for a few years. A new building is being built at the historic prison building. These investments are worth millions of euros. The result is a completely new complex in which there are no new cells, but a new kitchen, meeting rooms, offices, etc. However, the fact is that the cell capacity remains the same. Today there are 48 cells, 2 per cell, so the average number of prisoners is 90 to 100. The kitchen in the new complex is equipped to prepare 200 meals. The question raised on the ground is to increase cell capacity within the framework of the works so that the new investments can also be profitable. Research has already been done on the foundations. Can additional cells be built? Back in June 2013, Secretary of State Verherstraeten replied that the research had a positive result and therefore it is possible to build cells by demolishing the rear part where a new two-high building could be placed. The new building will be put into operation on 4 January next year. There has been some uncertainty about the number of staff that will be able to be deployed from then on. 83 full-time equivalents were promised and 77 were finally promised in the light of the savings. The opening of the new building is fixed as a failure to enter into service would have the effect that the next phase of the works would not be able to continue the renovation of the existing building, which would result in substantial fines. In summary, it can be said that everything is ready for the inauguration of the new building at the beginning of January. More staff were asked and, ultimately, 77 full-time equivalents could be reached. With current capacity, however, this raises a problem of profitability. If there are more cells, the situation can be corrected. Where are we on a possible expansion of the Ypres prison?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, Masterplan III "Prisons" is in the process of finalisation with a view to its forthcoming approval by the Council of Ministers. To date, no formal decision has been taken. This is not just my master plan, but that of the two competent ministers and, in this way, of the whole government. It is not because of us that an informal version would have been published in the press. I do not feel responsible for this publication. Nor am I able to tell you whether Sugny, Sambreville or Achêne are retained as sites. I confirm that the cost of remediation in Sambreville is very high, despite possible intervention by the Fund. With respect to your questions about investments in Namur and Dinant, I can clarify the following. These are indeed arrangements that had been planned to ensure the continuity of the prison pending the possible opening of a new establishment. This work is sustainable enough to ensure the functioning of the prison, even in the longer term. Currently under consideration, they are based on the same logic: to maintain the functioning of the prison, regardless of the final decision on its future. Some costs are known to my administration, but in most cases I invite you to address your questions to my colleague in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments. In Namur, work carried out on the means of communication with alarm, geolocation and log systems costs more or less 130,000 euros; the creation of a PCI space, the placement of perimetric detection and an indoor-outdoor CCTV installation, more or less 550 000 euros; the replacement of the RX for the portal, 40,000 euros. They are still programmed: the upgrading of the preau-est, the replacement of the generator, the installation of electric locks, the replacement of the door of the inner courtyard with motorized shutters, the renovation of the showers, the work in progress concerning the motorization of the doors of the entrance door of the vehicles, the total replacement of the telephone and the DSC TS, the replacement of doors for the round roads, cellars and shops, the turntile of access to the preau... Future work is aimed at the total renovation of wings B and D - the preparation of the needs inventory is under way - and the improvement of energy efficiency. As far as Dinant is concerned, an important renovation plan is being developed by the prison administration, but it has not yet been discussed with the Régie des Bâtiments. It can be activated if the maintenance of the Dinant prison is decided. In the meantime, a number of work has been undertaken in recent months and years. The most important are the expansion and development of the meadow. They have recently been completed and have improved the well-being of inmates, who now benefit from more space and equipment. With regard to safety, turnstiles, cameras and a new metal mesh in the meadow have been installed to prevent escapes by means of objects that can be thrown from the outside of the enclosure wall. In the near future, replacement of the portico RX is also planned. This also applies to the expansion of the centre. As far as budgets are concerned, I invite you to ask my colleague in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments. For the Masterplan in general, the Justice Plan already gives considerable impetus to the projects and principles that will be integrated into it. For Ypres an extension is being examined, but even here there is no official decision yet. It is correct for my administration to tell me that, in order to fully implement Ypres' new infrastructure, additional staff should go to this facility. It is true, however, that because of the budgetary constraints that all departments are subject to, including mine, there were no opportunities to recruit staff for the penitentiary establishment. Expenditure on personnel costs is continuously monitored by the FPS P&D and only when the result is positive is the green light for additional recruitments. I am pleased to inform you that I recently received a favourable opinion from the Treasury Inspectorate on the recruitment of 20 prison guards. That will allow the prison system to restart the mutation round and thus ensure reinforcement where necessary. Furthermore, in Ypres, as in all other Belgian penitentiary establishments, there is also a need to undertake a rationalisation exercise to see whether the filling of posts can be done in a more rational way and whether this will not allow more room for the crucial posts. The project of reconstruction in Verviers is indeed one of the proposals included in this plan without I can already say in what form. With regard to your question of detention and transitional homes, I am open to other forms of detention. I can only applaud projects and initiatives that can facilitate reintegration into society because, in the long run, they are beneficial not only to inmates but also to society as a whole. In this regard, the Justice Plan already gives an important impetus with the necessary attention for differentiation for smaller-scale or otherwise secure forms of detention. A pilot project will be proposed. As far as Paifve is concerned, the matter of internment is a matter of particular interest to me. Over the last few years, Belgium has put a double stop to solving the central problems of internment and I think I can say that I am also making all the efforts necessary to bring about a structural improvement in the reception of interns. The objective is indeed to take as many prisoners as possible out of the prisons in order to house them in real care facilities where they can be truly cared for, in a secure environment when necessary. The question of the future of Paifve is of the same concern. The current model, dating back to the 1960s, needs to be updated. The way in which this modernization is to be done is subject to discussion and must be done in the context of a global reflection on internment in Wallonia. It is clear that the reality must be taken into account and that the solution adopted in Flanders cannot therefore be transposed into Wallonia without any prior consideration. There is indeed a very developed care circuit in the north of the country in which the PLCs are integrated. The South rather has a tradition related to the social defence institutions of Paifve which depend on the federal, and therefore on the DG PPE, and Tournai, which depends on the Walloon Region. We have to take that into account. It is because this reflection is under way that it is impossible, at the moment, to answer in concrete terms the question concerning the future of Paifve. No leads were rejected, neither the transformation of Paifve into a PLC nor the project presented by the Paifve management. A working group composed of representatives from Justice, Public Health, and the DG EPI of the local management of Paifve was formed to determine the future of Paifve. These discussions took place within the framework of Masterplan III. I would like to point out that Paifve will not disappear and will continue to welcome internees in the future and that all guarantees of maintaining employment will be taken. I would point out that the division between care and expertise has been in effect for several years and is applicable in the field, except for exceptions related to the difficulty of replacing psychiatrists when they leave their posts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answers. As far as transitional houses are concerned, you have remained in the general principles, to which we also subscribe. Indeed, we are open and supportive of plans for new sites for faster reintegration of prisoners. We can find ourselves in this statement of intent. We will pay more attention to all the more concrete questions I have asked you. You say that the plan has not yet been definitively adopted. It will be only in a second step that we get more information. But we are very much looking for concrete answers to these new concepts that you seem to be introducing. As far as Sugny's prison is concerned, you confirm that no decision has been made. Therefore, we will come back with new questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u43	Minister, I haven't learned anything. It's okay!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u44	I answered your question!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u45	I noted exactly that the text in the press was an unofficial version and that you were not responsible for it! I've never attacked you on this subject! And Verviers was on the plan. Yes, it has been there for years, since in Masterplan III tabled by the previous government, which you had approved, it was already there! So I didn't learn anything about it. And you add that the masterplan is being finalized for decision-making by the government. I'd be very happy if you could give me an approximate date for this finalization. When will the government decide? Is it a matter of days, weeks, months? These are the questions that are being asked! Is there any hope that a decision will be taken within a reasonable time? Maybe you can't answer me? I don't know! But for now, when there is no question of ping-pong from one minister to another, we are finalizing. But when do we finish? As time passes, problems arise on a daily basis on the ground. You're not without knowing it! We're trying to get an idea of the decisions that will be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u46	I am not used to replying, but with regard to the policy note, I have extended as much as possible on all these issues. I have answered at length all the questions asked to me by the members of your party. I can repeat myself infinitely. Your party went to the government. You know that it is difficult to predict the exact timing of decisions that are so painful and involve several different instances. You know I've been doing everything I can to calm you down for a long time. Be reasonable! You mustn't move for me. You could've phoned me, I would've said the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u47	Mr Minister, the parliamentary procedure still provides for questioning. Excuse me for doing this, but it's my job. We'll repeat it as much as we need. We cannot repeat ad vidam aeternam that it is being finalized! People are worried in the field. You can understand that. They wonder about the future of the judicial world in Verviers and each time, the only answer that can be given to them is "it is in the process of finalisation". I'm not asking for anything else. Give us at least one hope of decision-making, for example, mid-2016. But I don't make it a political matter. All parties in the Verviers district are united behind this project. They signed a joint letter. I just want to reassure people by telling them where we're going.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u48	Minister, some of the questions raised today have been raised a long time ago. Sometimes the file has evolved, sometimes publications intervene. We have to apologize. We are not responsible. For the rest, I take note of your answer and thank you for the information provided. I will read this carefully and will ask you in writing later on what is still a question for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u49	Minister, I was afraid of a ping-pong game of which I would be the ball, which was a bit the case! We will also re-examine the Minister with the Régie des Bâtiments in his jurisdiction. Instead, we played hide-and-seek together. I note that no decision has been taken and, indeed, there have been leaks in the press. With regard to the establishment of Sugny, I will consider the news to be positive since there has not yet been a decision. This hypothesis, however, does not resist any objective and serious analysis. Of course, as a Namurian, I do not deny that the region needs jobs and economic activity. For the rest, in terms of mobility, equipment, accessibility, Sugny would be a catastrophic choice for the proper use of public funds and costs over time. On the other hand, maintaining justice of the peace, public services and improving mobility by railways is very relevant in the region. For Namur and Dinant, I have noted your precise answers and thank you. I see that investments have been made and that they were very necessary, as well as others just as necessary. If we want to manage the aggression that can exist in our prisons, it is normal to invest in it so that the minimum comfort of daily life is ensured without luxury but in dignified living conditions. I think there are still needs in Namur, Dinant and other provinces.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u50	Minister, as far as staff are concerned, I will read your reply. The possibility of enlargement is still on the table. I can only repeat that the momentum to land will soon be there, because at the beginning of January a new building will open, standing on the historic building. More staff is needed because the surface is increasing so much, but the capacity remains on 48 cells. In order to make the heavy investments profitable, you need to seize the opportunity to create 60 additional cells, which I think is a rather small file, so that the prison can be better exploited.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u51	Question nr. 7256 of Mrs Renate Hufkens is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u52	Mr President, Minister, at the beginning of the legislature, it was specified by the government that domestic violence would no longer be a priority in the national police security plan. The victims are living a daily danger, sometimes unable to get out of this violent context, suffering serious physical and psychological injuries, and yet some are able to report the situation to the police, which sometimes is the only possible help, the only accessible way out of this situation. Last year, 51,000 cases of domestic violence were recorded and this is only the tip of the iceberg, as many facts are not reported. The director of Amnesty International is easily joined, explaining that it is "a slap for the more than 40,000 victims who dared to do this every year". Recently, the press announced a crusade against domestic violence and referred to a circular that would require more removal measures and special attention for situations in which children were concerned. These are two positions which seem paradoxical. Minister, is domestic violence a priority for your government? What are the legal avenues and tools available to stem the daily threat that remains the leading cause of women's deaths in the world? What is the purpose of this circular, which is mentioned in the press? How do you address the situation of children, both direct and indirect victims of such violence?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u53	Mr Minister, I know that yesterday, when you discussed your policy paper, you had questions on this subject, but my question had already been put. At the end of October, you announced in the press that you would follow intra-family violence more closely. The police and the police should pay more attention to domestic violence and specifically to children in domestic violence files. You expressed the wish that suspects would get a restraining order more often. You are also planning a circular which will impose specific rules on the police and the court for the first time in relation to partner violence. As a result, I have the following questions. What does your letter of circular mean in concrete terms? Is he ready yet? When will he be sent around? When do you plan to amend the circular of 17 July 2013, ET/SE 2, to exclude offenders of intra-family violence from its application? What progress has been made with the evaluation by the Public Prosecutor of his circular 18/2012? Will the approach to intra-family violence be included as a priority within the security plan, despite previous reports?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u54	Mr Minister, I will not repeat myself, but I would like to add that for the first time in the directives, which are new, there is also a clear reference to the ban on housekeeping. I have questioned you on several occasions. Your answers show that in 2013 and 2014 only 65 offenders of intra-family violence were temporarily banned. These are peanuts, knowing that there are about 50 000 reports of intra-family violence on an annual basis. Some districts apply the procedure only occasionally, others hardly apply it. As far as temporary housing bans are concerned, has the law been reviewed and the directive passed? If so, what are the results? If not, what's the timing? Do you have more recent figures per arrondissement on how many times the temporary ban was imposed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u55	I can confirm that the fight against intra-family violence, wider than domestic violence against women, is an important government policy priority. Indeed, the figures on violence against women, as well as children, the elderly and people with disabilities are worrying worldwide. Therefore, the fight against these forms of violence must be translated into concrete policy actions and measures. This is also happening in an integral way in the action plan on gender-based violence, which will be presented on 10 December by my colleague, Secretary of State Elke Sleurs, responsible for equal opportunities, and which has already been approved by the Council of Ministers. Justice also takes full responsibility for this. With regard to the criminal law approach and the tools available to the investigation and prosecution services, I would like to refer you to the common directive of myself and the College of Attorneys General on tackling partner violence, the COL 4/2006, which has indeed been updated recently. This circular uses the intervention logic that the sooner the violent force is confronted with a government that firmly condemns it, the sooner violence can be contained and escalation prevented. I personally believe that perpetrators of domestic violence can repent if not only timely action is taken, but also if they are offered appropriate therapeutic guidance in order to learn how to control themselves and to understand the damaging consequences of violence. This naturally presupposes sufficient cooperation with the aid sector for which the Communities are competent. The letter was updated and provides for a number of important measures, both in the area of imaging and in the area of police and judicial approaches. After all, we know how to measure, but first we have to register uniformly and consistently. For example, the possibility of imposing a house ban in the event of a serious and immediate threat to the safety of persons is included in the list of measures that the prosecutor may take. For example, both within the court of first instance and within the public prosecutors general, a specialised reference office is provided. More attention is also paid to cooperation with the children. The interplay between the magistrates and the youth parquets and the specialised reference magistrates for intra-family violence is important in order to allow an integrated approach to the problem of matching the measures. In the meantime, the letter was circulated within the College of Attorneys General. The College of Attorneys-General will review the circular on the house ban by September 2016. The aim is to identify the reasons for the lack of use of the instrument so far and the legislative changes that need to be made. In the meantime, we hope to be able to see the impact of the new directives in this area on the implementation. The circular of 17 July 2013 will be reviewed in the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions. I would like to point out that the nature of the facts is often taken into account when granting electronic surveillance as a mode of execution for prison sentences of less than three years. However, the electronic supervision of the place of residence should not be ruled out in absolute terms for perpetrators of intra-family violence, since in some cases the convicted person has already reconciled with the victim and still has a relational link with it, while the execution of a freedom-limiting sentence under electronic supervision may still be advisable in response to the offences committed. Those dossiers should be assessed on a case-by-case basis with due vigilance and caution. Mrs Ben Hamou, I apologize for not reading anything in French but I was not alert enough to translate at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Firstly, it is, of course, very good that the new letter has already been sent out and that attention is also paid to children, who are often victims in such situations of intra-family violence. Secondly, it is of course very good that the letter is being evaluated. Nevertheless, I hope that account will be taken of the fact that, in my opinion, the letter will have to be excluded from its scope. After all, it sounds strange that an offender of intrafamilial violence who gets an ankle bracelet will carry out his sentence at home. We all know that the inquiry accompanying the award of the anklet has been deleted. It is now only the prison director who will have to assess such cases. That assessment is less extensive than it used to be. I would therefore like to continue to argue that this category of offences from convicted to criminal offences should be excluded from the scope of the debrief. One part of my question remains unanswered, in particular the question of whether the intra-family is effectively integrated into the safety plan. Before the holiday there was some polemic in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u57	I have repeatedly confirmed that it would be so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u58	Then it is good and we are reassured on that point.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u59	Minister, I have no reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u60	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, I had tabled a written question on this last July, but had not received an answer. That's why I'm putting it to you today. Several drivers who are guilty of driving offences, without paying fines, enjoy some impunity due to the registration of their vehicles abroad and their residence outside our borders. Since my question was tabled, the press has highlighted a European directive which provides for the sharing of information on road traffic offences and several bilateral agreements signed with France and the Netherlands. However, in the field, the system is experiencing many failures. In addition, police officers find themselves lacking effective tools, with the State depriving itself, at the same time, of thousands of euros of financial revenues. One solution, which already exists in France and the Netherlands, and whose effectiveness has been demonstrated, would be the creation of a centralized office for the collection of driving fines. Minister, can we quantify the number of minutes sent to vehicles registered abroad or to drivers domiciled outside our borders and the amount that this represents for the public treasury? How can we explain that agreements and other conventions are not enough to ensure that the necessary information is shared? Are you contemplating, like our neighbours, the creation of a centralized office for the collection of taxi fines in order to solve this problem? If not, what are the other avenues to consider?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u61	Mr President, Minister, in 2014, Belgium gave an oral statement on its territory 299,000 foreign drivers. However, some prosecutors deplore the fact that more than 80 per cent of the fines remain closed, owing to the lack of staff to handle the cases and sufficient data on the perpetrators of the offences. Indeed, despite information-sharing agreements with neighbouring countries, national data banks remain poorly fed and foreign violators difficult to reach. It is an injury to the State which would amount to several hundred thousand euros. To remedy this situation, some experts argue for the establishment of a centralized office for the collection of driving fines, as already exists in France and the Netherlands. These offices have access to the Belgian file and can thus send the contraventions directly, with certain efficiency, since the Dutch police services manage to recover in the year 40.4 % of the sums due as a result of the 182 000 offences committed by Belgian users. The French were not doing very well either in order to collect the fines corresponding to the offences committed on their territory. Mr Minister, do you think that the establishment of a European "Cross-border" project will effectively cross the databases available to our services, or do you plan to add other measures to address these shortcomings? Is the project to create a centralized office for the collection of driving fines currently under consideration within your departments? If so, when will he be able to take office?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the judicial services do not have the quantitative information requested. These are the responsibility of the police. The precision therefore belongs to my counterpart of the interior. In the case of driving offences committed by a non-resident offender who is a national of a European Union country, a notification shall be made within the current framework of Directive 2015/413, adopted by the European Parliament and the Council on 11 March 2015, which replaces Directive 211/82, which is repealed. Pending the possibility of sending a notification letter as provided for in the above-mentioned Directive, a copy of the report shall be sent to the offender. The original is forwarded to the Police Prosecutor's Office, which will forward a transactional proposal to the offender. A voluntary payment of the amount of the transaction by the offender is now essentially expected, because failing that, in order to obtain an enforceable order, the offender must be summoned to the police court. In this case, the fine may then be recovered only individually, in accordance with the Law of 5 August 2006 on the application of the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions in criminal matters between the Member States of the European Union, as amended by the laws of 19 March 2012 and 27 November 2011, transposing in particular the Council Framework Decision 2015/2014 of 24 February 2005. The sums obtained as a result of the execution shall, in accordance with this procedure, be returned to the executing State. The Belgian State will not be the beneficiary. In 2014, approximately 144,000 transaction proposals for a total amount of more or less EUR 14 million were sent for voluntary payment to non-resident offenders, of which 59% have so far paid an amount of more than EUR 8.5 million. The efforts of the police and prosecutors are therefore certainly not in vain. The "Cross-border" project of the justice system far exceeds the collection of fines for foreigners and the computerisation of data exchange. Its goal is to optimize the process of collecting all fines and monetary penalties so that police and justice can focus on their core missions. Thus, the intention is to act on mailing costs by grouping together the double sending of the minutes and the immediate collection letter into a single shipment to the offender. Case management will be largely computerized, while administrative follow-up, which is not part of the core tasks of Justice and does not contribute to judicial policy, will be outsourced. The project contains the preparation of several public procurement contracts which will soon be ready for submission to the Finance Inspectorate. In order to make the work process coherent, we are working closely with Mobility and Finance on the regulation that underpins it. It is with this in mind that the new order for payment will have to reduce the workload of the police courts by having a simple enforcement order issued by the Public Prosecutor's Office, so that the Finances can enforce the payment without the need for a judgement. The intention is also to use the Customs ANPR scanner to allow for the immediate seizure of vehicles on the road for the Die Hard who refuse to pay their criminal fines. In the near future, if Finance finds that a fine or a pecuniary penalty cannot be recovered, the alternative prison sentence will be executed as soon as, in the case of the same offender, for all offences and offences together, it exceeds a fixed sentence. In this way, the approach to recidivism will be integrated into the policy. As I mentioned earlier, I do not intend to set up a central office for the collection of road fines, but I have followed the lead of my predecessor Stefaan De Clerck, aimed at improving cooperation between the various actors. In this context, Finance will continue to be responsible for the collection and recovery of criminal policy on road traffic offences and Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u63	Minister, could you give me the written answer? I see that there is a serious loss of profits. I will also send a question to the Minister of the Interior for further information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u64	I had tabled this issue at the same time with the Minister of the Interior. I am well aware of the need to move forward in computerization, which is essential. With regard to the implementation of the perception of criminal effects, I realize that the work is still immense to achieve coordination of the three departments concerned, since finance is also so. It might be interesting to see, in comparative law, how this happens in other countries. Sometimes I have to pay fines for circulating too quickly in France and it seems to me that the French system is quite strict.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u65	Questions Nos 7330 and 7534 by Mr Vanvelthoven are transformed into written questions. Question No 7559 by Mrs Ben Hamou is also transformed into a written question. Question No 7584 by Mr. Van Hees was removed from the agenda. Question No 7688 by Mrs Ben Hamou is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u66	Minister, at the end of 2013, families of executed soldiers asked for a restoration of honour, because at the beginning of the First World War a family member was sentenced to death for refusing to fight with them. According to the families, there was no fair trial. In the First World War, a defendant could not count on fair and independent justice. In cases of desertion, martial arts relied on a discarded Napoleonic decree to pronounce the death penalty. On several occasions, the military leadership put pressure on auditors and judges. At the sessions of the War Councils, only witnesses were charged. Lawyers did not have time to make a proper plea and could wrongly not appeal in the first years of war. When this case came to the media at the end of 2013, the government felt it was too early to support a resolution that provided for the restoration of honour for the executed. The Di Rupo government first wanted experts and scientists to study the matter through a scientific committee. In the meantime, we're a few months away. So far, we have been in the dark about the results of the study. What is the state of the study? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u67	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, the decision to restore collective honour to a number of people who were shot as deserters during the First World War is a decision that belongs to the responsibility of the entire government. I can usefully refer you to the answer you yourself received from the Prime Minister to your written question No 9 of 18 December 2014, as well as to his reply of 29 June 2015 to question No. 42 by Ms Barbara Pas of 28 May 2015. The Prime Minister already stated that this is being examined by a scientific committee set up by the Organisational Committee for the Remembrance of the First World War, which, however, declared itself impossible to formulate a final opinion on 29 April 2014, in particular because the existing studies contradict each other or are incomplete or unilateral. A new global and multidisciplinary study was requested from the specialists of the Royal Military School, under the coordination of Professor Stanislas Horvat. This study will probably be completed in the spring of 2016. The Prime Minister also called for serenity and asked the experts to work on the study in peace and quiet, given the sensitivity of the dossier. I think it's good to respect that call. I am not aware of the progress of the work and would therefore like to refer you to the Prime Minister for more information on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u68	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u69	The Financial Information Processing Unit, better known as CTIF, is at the heart of the Belgian system for combating money laundering of criminal origin and thereby combating the financing of terrorism. Each year, CTIF transfers information to the judicial authorities on potentially criminal facts. For example, according to its annual reports, it provided justice in 2014, 37 files with serious terrorist financing indices, compared to 25 files in 2013 and 19 in 2012. According to CTIF's boss, Mr. Jean-Claude Delepierre cited in the weekly Le Vif of this November 27, most of these files have not been investigated and have been closed. These statements obviously challenged me in the light of the situation that everyone is experiencing. That's why I wanted to question you. The same article pointed out that there was not enough flow of information between CTIF and State Security. I know from my excellent colleagues, Marcel Cheron and Stéphane Van Hecke, that Article 226 of the so-called pot-pourri II law has repaired the error of this lack of flow and of the possibility of communication from financial data between the CTIF and the State Security, and possibly the OCAM, in order to detect in a preventive way plans for terrorist acts. I'm glad. Nevertheless, you will understand that this non-treatment by Justice of files transmitted by CTIF is more or less challenging. What about it? Who is responsible within the FPS Justice and the courts for following up on information transmitted by the TIF in relation to suspicions of terrorist financing? Is there a judge(s) specializing in the handling of these cases? Do you confirm that most of these files transmitted by CTIF on terrorism are closed? How many cases have they received in the last three years compared to the number I have cited, about 70 cases? What explains this low follow-up rate if it is proven? Is there no need to improve the monitoring of this information at the judicial level? What do you have in mind? I withdraw the last question on the impossibility of the CTIF to communicate with the State Security since I have found the answer in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u70	Mr Gilkinet, information on indications of terrorist financing is transmitted by the CTIF to the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. Unfortunately, I cannot give you precise figures on the follow-up of this information transmitted by CTIF to the Federal Prosecutor's Office, since the latter's anti-terrorism section is currently fully absorbed by operational work. We are in a particularly intense time, as you may know. I hope you will understand that I wish to avoid distracting federal magistrates from the ongoing investigations for a few more weeks. I can, of course, give you answers beyond the figures. When the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office receives information from the CTIF, it refers the case to the judicial police, usually in Brussels or Antwerp, and asks it to analyse the report received from the CTIF and to contextualise it on the basis of their own information and that of the Central Counter-Terrorism Service of the Federal Police. If this analysis and contextualization lead to a sufficiently precise and specific case, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office will open an investigation, either for terrorist financing – it will then be taken over by the Terrorism Section of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office and the investigation is then entrusted to a joint team of investigators specializing in terrorism and financial crime – or for money laundering. In this case, the procedure will be dealt with within the Organized Crime Section of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office and the investigation will be entrusted to the financial section of the PJF concerned. If the communication by the CTIF and the analysis and contextualization by the PJF do not provide sufficient information to open an investigation, the information shall be transmitted to the competent local prosecutor's office and the administrative file opened to the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office shall be closed. Without having any figures to give you, but on the basis of the initial information received from some magistrates, it is likely that a limited number of communications of information by CTIF will in themselves lead to the opening of a case, but this must be balanced on two levels. First, it should be recalled that the information provided by the CTIF is not a record and does not correspond to the judicial evidence that will be necessary to have the person convicted. It is up to the Prosecutor's Office to examine with investigators whether it is appropriate and efficient to initiate a procedure that will necessarily use investigative capacity. It is normal for a sorting to be carried out at the level of the public prosecutor's office. Second, the fact that the information provided by CTIF does not open a judicial record does not mean that the information will not be used by investigators in already opened files. In many cases, this information is a useful tool for identifying certain links between people through banking transactions in the same way as communication data. The Public Prosecutor's Office is therefore following the information provided by the CTIF, even if this does not necessarily mean the opening of a new criminal procedure. In addition, it should be noted that there is always a section on the financing of terrorism in each case related to this form of crime opened by the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. It would therefore be wrong to consider that this aspect is not important to the latter. Having said that, I believe that it is possible to improve the fight against the financing of terrorism in general. I am convinced that the federal prosecutor's office is doing everything in its power, and even more so with the resources available. Its anti-terrorism section will be strengthened with the additional budget that has been decided by the government. This should allow for better monitoring and closer cooperation between the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office and CTIF. I do not have to answer your other question, because the legislator will deal with it through section 226.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u71	Mr Minister, thank you for your detailed and detailed response. I can fully understand that the collection of statistical data has not been a priority for the services responsible for the prosecution of terrorist acts in recent weeks. However, you do not completely contradict my finding of lack of resources and monitoring. In everything, prevention is better than cure. I asked you several times when you were Minister of Finance about the blatant lack of resources of the FPS Finance and Justice, as well as the judicial police, in the fight against financial crime. However, it is the channel used by ordinary criminals, terrorists and tax fraudsters alike. The State's tools to combat these scourges are inadequate in this regard. Touching the criminal wallet is essential, as is identifying the flow of money. I recognize your concern to respond correctly and I have no doubt that efforts are being made in the field to make the best use of this data. Nevertheless, as an encouragement to the government, I will table a motion for a recommendation to ensure that sufficient resources are devoted to the fight against the financing of terrorism, by exploiting the data transmitted by the CTIF, but also by a sufficient number of financial judges. You say that this is done in spite of the budgetary circumstances, but it is precisely because of the difficult budgetary circumstances that financial crime must be combated, because it must bring money back to the State in the form of taxes paid by those concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u72	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Georges Gilkinet and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Georges Gilkinet and the response of the Minister of Justice, asks the government 1. to make the fight against the financing of terrorism and, in particular, the processing of files transmitted by the CTIF with serious indications of the financing of terrorism a priority; 2. in the short term, to identify the means necessary to deal at judicial level with cases transmitted by the CTIF containing serious indications of terrorist financing for the last three years; 3. In the medium term, to make the fight against financial crime a priority at the judicial level by designating sufficient specialized judges from this perspective." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Georges Gilkinet and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Georges Gilkinet and the Minister of Justice's reply, calls on the Government 1. make the fight against the financing of terrorism a priority and in particular the handling of the files transmitted by the CFI containing serious indications of terrorist financing; 2. to allocate in the short term the necessary resources for the judicial treatment of the files transmitted by the CFI over the past three years, which contain serious indications of terrorist financing; 3. to make the fight against financial crime a medium-term priority in the judicial field by appointing a sufficient number of specialised judges." A simple motion was tabled by Sonja Becq, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh and MM. Philippe Goffin and Egbert Lachaert. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sonja Becq and Mrs Kristien Van Vaerenbergh and by Mr Philippe Goffin and Mr Egbert Lachaert. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dallemagne's 7772 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u73	Minister, I have been addressed by some lawyers who have been confused by our insertion of Article 46/1 of the Legal Code by the Potpourri I Act. We have entered in the Civil Code that the notification to a party for whom a lawyer is acting in accordance with Articles 728, 729 or 729/1 and who has not notified the Registry to cease to act before that party in accordance with Article 729 shall be made by ordinary letter to that lawyer. From this, I understand that it concerns the communication between the Registry and the lawyer affected by this article, but not the communication between the parties. Now there are lawyers who see what we have registered as an implicit choice of residence, and who interpret it in such a way that service between the parties at the address of the lawyer is possible. That is not our reading, and I do not believe that this was the intention of the original article that we have inserted. I would ask you to give your interpretation of this, just to be sure, in order to clarify the field of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u74	Colleague Lachaert, the new Article 32b of the Court's Code, as introduced by Article 3 of the Law of 19 October 2015, provides that any notification or notification to, or filing with, the courts or tribunals, the public prosecutor or services which depend on the judiciary, including the registry and parquet secretariats, or any notification or notification to a lawyer, a bailiff or a notary, may be made by the courts or courts, the public ministry or services which depend on the judiciary, including the registry and parquet secretariats, or by a lawyer, a bailiff or a notary, by means of the computer justice system designated by the King. According to this provision, the King shall determine the detailed rules of the computer system, ensuring the confidentiality and effectiveness of the communication. The use of the aforementioned computer system may be imposed by the King on the authorities, services or actors listed in paragraph 1, or some of them. The clear text of this provision shows that any notification or communication to a lawyer by a lawyer resulting from the electronic communication provided for, once the eBox system will be operational, is possible not only between the courts and the lawyers of the parties or vice versa, but also between the lawyers themselves, which was explicitly indicated in the explanatory memorandum. I quote: 'This adaptation also means that the use of the data processing system in question can also be made possible for, and can even be imposed on, the aforementioned extrajudicial actors for their mutual communication. Where appropriate, this can only be done after consultation with the professional groups concerned." On the other hand, the new Article 46/1 of the Civil Code, introduced by Article 7 of the Law of 19 October 2015, provides that the notification by ordinary letter to a party for whom a lawyer is acting in accordance with Article 728, 729 or 729/1 and who has not notified the Registry to cease acting in respect of that party pursuant to Article 729/1 shall be effected by a simple letter to that lawyer. In fact, according to your own analysis, this relates only to the notification by the Registry, whereby the Registry is dismissed from sending ordinary letters to a party represented by a lawyer. A letter to the lawyer will do. This will of course be possible by electronic means, subject to the new Article 32b, once it has entered into force. This applies only between lawyers for a communication and between the Registry and a lawyer for a notification by ordinary letter. Service, on the other hand, is not part of this, as it is done in the case of bailiffs. I quote Article 32 of the Civil Code. "For the purposes of this Code: 1. "signature" means "the issue of an original or a copy of the instrument; it shall be made in the case of bailiffs or, in the cases provided for by the law, in the forms prescribed by it"; 2. "notification' means the transmission of an original document or a copy; it is carried out by postal services or by electronic mail to the judicial electronic address or, in the cases provided for by the law, by fax or in the forms prescribed by the law. The service of the expedition described by you is a judgment; what is not done by the Registry, but by a bailiff, is therefore indeed outside the scope of Articles 32ter and 46/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u75	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I think we have the same interpretation, in particular that it will remain so until we enter into the eBox system, that service done by a bailiff will continue at the address of the party itself and that there is no explicit choice of residence with a lawyer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u76	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Uyttersprot's 7810 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u77	Mr President, Mr Minister, in early November, the Union professionnel de la magistrature (UPM) sent you a letter concerning calls for applications for vacant posts in the judiciary. In this missive, the UPM, though not considered to be the most radical of the French-speaking magistrates' unions, accuses you of violating the Constitution and undermining several fundamental elements that guarantee neutrality in the process of appointing magistrates, by introducing a suspensive condition in appeals for applications for vacant posts in the judiciary. Indeed, the two calls published in the Belgian Moniteur end with the sentence: "In accordance with the instructions on budgetary prudence, appointments will take place within the limits of the appropriations available." The UPM considers that this condition violates the independence of the Supreme Council of Justice, which should take the final decision, since the Minister has a marginal power to refuse a presentation solely for procedural reasons and never for reasons of expediency. With this last sentence, which is found in the calls for 51 vacant posts, we do have the impression that you are going to pick up on the list of candidates based on available funds and objective or no interest. In addition, budgetary prudence may lead to a situation in which the executive branch will block the appointments of judges presented by the Supreme Council of Justice. In other words, the requirement of "available credits" to make an appointment adds an essential element to a procedure laid down by law. Therefore, Minister, my question is simple: are you going to remove this suspensive condition in the 51 calls for applications for vacancies in the judiciary?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u78	Mr President, Mr Massin, by letter of 3 November 2015, the UPM asked me, in fact, about the vacancy of several places of magistrates, whose appointment will take place within the limits of the appropriations available. In response, I informed him that, as in the past, these holidays were launched in accordance with legal and regulatory provisions and within available budgets. The fact that my administration has added a recital to the usual opinions at the request of the administrative and budgetary control authorities does not alter the existing procedures. However, in order to remove any ambiguity, my administration was asked to review with the same administrative and budgetary supervisory authorities the wording of the recitals in future publications. In its opinion of 2 December 2015, the Finance Inspectorate indicated that there was no objection to the clause no longer appearing in employment vacancies. However, she recalled that, in any event, appointments could only be made within the limits of available appropriations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u79	Everyone agrees: appointments can only be made within the limits of the appropriations available. Perhaps bringing that clarification was inappropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u80	Question No 7756 by Gilles Vanden Burre is transformed into a written question. The same applies to Question No 7824 by Mrs Daphné Dumery and to Questions Nos 7899 and 7900 by Mr Stefaan Van Hecke.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u81	Mr. Minister, on 1 December 2015, I read in the weekly Dag All of them are normally other newspapers or press companies that make publications about Justice or the prison system.This is an article about working conditions in Root's prison. The report, drawn up on 26 October 2015, was downright devastating. Working conditions can be described as unhygienic, unhealthy and even dangerous in certain circumstances. I, too, have been able to look at the report. The report states that there are currently different regimes to employ detainees. For the different regimes under which prisoners are employed, clear agreements must be made with the managers of the workshops in order to ensure that prisoners can work in safe and healthy conditions. It goes without saying that the agreements must be in conformity with the Welfare Act and its implementing decisions. On 19 October 2015, an inspection visit took place at the Werkhuizen De Leeuw Metalen in the criminal establishment of Root, to verify whether the aforementioned principles are being implemented. In these workshops the machines, equipment and raw materials are supplied by the company De Leeuw Metalen. The customer himself does not employ employees. They work under the authority and supervision of the guards. The FPS Justice is acting as an employer here. I will not repeat the list of all the infringements included in the report here in committee. You have probably read them yourself in the report and in my question. This is a list of no less than ten infringements, which I made in my oral question. I would like to make it clear to the listeners that it is not an exhaustive list. According to the inspection, there are still infringements. The report states that infringements must be dealt with immediately. To this end, by 16 November 2016, the inspection had an action plan for the regularisation of the infringements delivered to the General Directorate of Welfare Supervision at Work. If insufficient measures are taken in the short term to reduce the risks referred to above, Article 44 of the Social Criminal Code will impose a ban on being present at those jobs. The report makes it clear that the conditions in which the prisoners must work in that prison are poignant. In private companies, such circumstances seem impossible. The FPS Justice acts in this as an employer. Can I also assume that the report was delivered to you? What's your reaction to it? In the meantime, was an action plan for resolving these various infringements delivered to the competent department? Can this roadmap be explained in this committee? Are all the necessary measures taken to address these circumstances? At what time will that happen? Are all inmate workshops controlled by the FOD WASO? On what regular basis do these checks take place? Were such serious infringements also found in other places of employment? If so, what are the results of these inspections? Are the inspection reports accessible to the management of the prisons concerned? Is it not appropriate to apply for an external audit of Cellmade's working methods, given the seriousness of the infringements and the possibility that it is not a single case?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u82	Mr Top, like all employers, the FPS Justice is regularly subject to inspections by the FOD WASO. The same applies, of course, to prisons. The FOD WASO is not the only organization that regularly visits and inspects the prisons. To give two examples, the fire department does the same with regard to fire protection and the Federal Food Agency on kitchens. It is not unusual for a number of points to be raised during these inspections and for problems to be noted. That is also the finality of such visits. On the basis of the findings, the inspection services shall draw up a report. Within the framework of the FOD WASO, that report is sent to the Chairman of the Management Committee of the FPS Justice, the final responsible for well-being at work. In the case of prisons, a copy shall be sent to the local management and/or the Director-General. In this case, the local management, via the FOD WASO, has received a copy. The administration considers such controls to be an important contribution to improving certain situations and solving a number of problems. It is therefore always constructive and cooperates closely with the inspection services in order to take the best possible account of the comments made. Here, too, that has happened. After the prison of Root became aware of the letter from the FOD WASO, she, in collaboration and in consultation with the Regie van de Gejaarzaamwerk, drew up a roadmap to solve the issues raised and to optimise occupational safety in the workplace. Some measures could be taken almost immediately, others, such as infrastructure, require more time. For example, it is a question of adjusting procedures so that prisoners are given the opportunity to change their clothes immediately after the employment when they return to their quarters, or to take a different shower. Additional medical tests will be carried out, as will an annual dust analysis. Additional showers can also be placed. These are just a few measures that have been or will be taken. This roadmap is presented to the FOD WASO and was discussed with them on 7 December. The immediate results in the workhouse were also shown. Both the Roadmap and the measures already taken can count on the approval of WASO.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u83	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I do have one comment. I got a look at the report. You mentioned points of interest. I found that due to the list of comments, there is actually a destructive report. If a private employee were to receive such an inspection report, I wonder how they would respond. It is, of course, a good thing that a roadmap has been drawn up in the meantime. Some points were resolved immediately. Certain comments cannot be resolved overnight and were included in a roadmap. I think about the showers and the changing rooms. However, I have not heard of when all this needs to be resolved. Is there a time limit in the roadmap against when to submit it to the FOD WASO? I didn't hear this from you. I am talking about the consultation with the FOD WASO on 7 December. If I am in favour of it, the controlled companies have also obtained certain contracts with the prison system in the Netherlands. Have similar problems come to light there? If I am well informed, contracts were even cancelled in the Netherlands. I don't know if you're aware of that. If so, what is your opinion? I also hope that you will continue to monitor this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u84	Mr President, Minister, a recent study in Antwerp shows that, in the case of divorce, 8% of children would no longer be in contact with the father, without reasonable reasons. 1 % would no longer have contact with the mother. It's called a horrible word "parent reassignment." This would have different causes. In accordance with the Criminal Code, a sentence would be possible in the absence of a child. I do not think that this is a fantastic measure to apply effectively, but the problem remains. The reason for this question was that I read in some newsletter that apparently a new directive on prosecution would have been issued to the prosecutors when they did not comply with the residence regime. I'm not sure this is effective. More generally, I have questions about how this real problem is being addressed. I myself believe rather in mediation and prevention in order to reach good agreements and thus make a residence arrangement partially enforceable. If this is not the case, other measures are sometimes required. It is not always clear to me to what extent this is effectively used by the public prosecutors. If such a declaration is made at the courthouse, how will it be dealt with? Are there any effective prosecutions for this? If that's the case, are there any figures? I know this isn't always the case, but I'm still asking the question. What accompanying measures will be imposed where appropriate? Will there be contact with associations to provide guidance? Is there cooperation with the Communities? Is this particular point addressed in the judiciary training? How will parents be informed about or notified of possible prosecutions in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u85	Mr President, Mrs Becq, you must understand that I have not been able to obtain any information from the public prosecutor about the way in which the public prosecutors operate within a short period of time. The statistical analysts of the College of Attorneys General are unable to provide the requested figures. The current legislation already contains a number of means at the disposal of the court to intervene in the event of difficulties in complying with the residence scheme. Let me sum up some of them. The court may intervene at the level of parental authority and may impose coercive measures in the event of non-compliance with the residence scheme pursuant to Article 387a and 387ter of the Civil Code. In addition, the judge has the possibility to have the necessary investigations carried out, such as a social investigation or a psychomedical examination of the child. I would also like to draw attention to the importance of the neutral visitor rooms, which are designed precisely to enable the normal exercise of the right of personal contact in the problematic cases. Furthermore, there is the possibility for the court to change its interpretation of classical judicial expertise, with the aim of achieving a restoration or strengthening of the parental relationship, under permanent judicial control. Failure to deliver children may still be subject to criminal sanctions in accordance with Articles 431 and 432 of the Criminal Code. The most important thing, however, is to try to get parents to rematch and work together. With the introduction of the family court, mediation and other alternative means of amicable resolution of conflicts were given an important role. The parties are informed about these possibilities and the courts may allow and encourage parties to conclude agreements. The approach to parental exclusion is on the political agenda. It goes without saying that cooperation with the Communities, which are responsible for youth protection, will take place. Good cooperation between the Departments of Justice and Welfare is required to address the problem of divorces in an integral way. The Flemish Forum on Child Abuse, an advisory and consultation body established on the basis of the Protocol on Child Abuse, Justice-Wellness of 2010, has recently provided a policy advice on fighting divorces, which also addresses the theme of parental deprivation and contains several recommendations. The approach to fighting divorces is therefore included in the new National Action Plan on Gender-based Violence 2015-2019, which will be launched very soon. Cooperation with associations seeking to re-establish contact between children and parents is certainly worth considering, but should be looked at in conjunction with the Communities. Information on the training of magistrates could not yet be obtained at the Institute of Judicial Training within this short period of time. However, I would like to point out that the renewed joint letter COL 4/2006 of the Minister of Justice and the College of Attorneys General on criminal law policy on partner violence, which also provides training for magistrates. Since the chapter on the protection of children explicitly mentions the approach to intra-family violence, including the non-compliance with the transitional arrangements, this could also be included in the training of magistrates on intra-family violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u86	Mr Minister, I did not know the circular COL 4/2006, which gives extra attention to this problem. I am also pleased that you are proposing various approaches in your answer but remain curious about the practice in this area. However, I have to put a written question so that you can ask the public prosecutor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u87	A timely oral question is also possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u88	I was as surprised as you that the question was already on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u89	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, I recently heard from an entrepreneur about a problem that I thought it would be useful to discuss with you. In the framework of a clearance plan with the services of the litigation of various bodies in charge of VAT, social laws and professional prepayment, this head of company receives three times a year exploits of usher telling him that his debt is not always liquidated. The costs claimed amount to 510 euros per year. Minister, do you confirm the existence of such practices? If so, are they legal? In addition to being vexatious to the people they are targeting, they are useless – as people know that a clean-up plan is under way – and costly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u90	Mr Clarinval, according to the information you are reporting to me, it seems to me to be a clearance plan negotiated directly with the authorities in charge of tax and social law, that is, outside any procedure of judicial reorganization opened and carried out in accordance with the provisions of the law of 31 January 2009 on business continuity. The conditions of such a plan are therefore unknown to my services, in so far as they come from a regulation falling within the competence of the FPS Finance and Social Affairs, which are in charge of VAT, social laws and professional discount. However, if the state of the difficulties of the company in question requires a moratorium of the debts, the head of company may contact the commercial court of the head office of his company in order to claim a procedure of judicial reorganization, in accordance with the provisions of the Act of 31 January 2009 referred to above. This will allow him to temporarily protect himself from the lawsuits of his creditors and to take measures aimed at the reorganization of his business.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u91	Minister, I confirm that this procedure is outside the scope of business continuity. I just wanted to know if it was normal for bailiffs to send reminders three times a year to evoke a litigation plan. Is this not an abuse on their part? I understand, however, that since we are talking about a particular contractual situation, it is difficult for you to answer me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic292x.u92	Question No 7908 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh is postponed. Mrs Lalieux has just turned her question No 7924 into a written question.
