ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u1	Welcome to the External Relations Committee, with an unusual chairman, as you can see, but that is because, as agreed yesterday, we are starting with a series of combined interplays and questions from among others the President and the Deputy Chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u2	Minister, as you know, for my group, the resolution adopted by the House in September 2014 on the situation in Iraq and Belgium's participation in the international coalition was in no way an indefinite white-seing. It laid down a clear and precise framework, without ambiguity, which included all the requirements then required by the PS, such as full respect for international law (United Nations framework) and humanitarian law, but also the requirement for a comprehensive solution, i.e. that cannot be exclusively military. So far, however, intervention by the international coalition and Belgium has been essentially military. In early September, together with your Dutch counterpart, you called on the European Commission to release in the short term additional emergency aid for refugees from the Syria-Iraq region. In addition, in your view, the European Union's development cooperation ministers must carry out urgent consultations as soon as possible, while more than four million Syrians have left their country to one of the neighbouring countries. Most of these refugees remain in the region. Belgium has recently stepped up its humanitarian efforts in the region by up to EUR 30 million. Minister, can you take stock of the action and the funds that your department has released for this region since the beginning of coalition military operations? What will be the additional €30 million in humanitarian aid that you have released? Has the government developed a comprehensive approach in accordance with the resolution adopted by the House, known as "3D", in which Belgian and even European development cooperation is fully integrated? Can you tell us how you coordinated within the government for this purpose and what actions have been taken with your colleagues? Has such a comprehensive strategy been or will it finally be developed among the States participating in the international coalition? Do you intend to take initiatives in this direction with your counterparts in the coalition countries? The United Nations is currently facing a considerable funding gap for humanitarian aid to Syria and its neighbouring countries. Does the international community intend to address this funding gap? Finally, according to you, the European Commission, which has a development budget of EUR 10 billion per year and EUR 1.2 billion in humanitarian aid, needs to be faster and more flexible. What initiatives do you intend to take to combine words with deeds?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u3	Mr President, normally I am entitled to 10 minutes' speaking time, but I will not take up that time. I'll take a little more time to replicate. It is important to hear what the Minister has to say first. This conflict started in 2011 and has set a crowd in motion. About seven to eight million Syrians live displaced, so not in their own home, in Syria. Four and a half million Syrians, some say five million, live in Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan. There are also in Egypt and elsewhere. In fact, it is surprising that this mass of people has not moved in the direction of Europe before. If that mass has moved in large numbers since the beginning of this year, it has to do with two elements. The first element is that the fighting in Syria continued and the people had to flee, either because of the barrel bombs they received from Assad on their heads, or because of the fact that the areas previously owned by the regime are now so moderate by the so-called moderate rebels who were not occupied. It is not surprising that of the people we see now, many fleeing alawites are. By the way, I fear that with the attack now being waged on Aleppo, a city of three million inhabitants, of which probably one and a half million have already fled, the problem will get even worse. The second element is the living conditions of the people in those countries. In Turkey it is reasonable for those in the camps, but many people who are not in the camps are in bad shape. They are usually through the capital that they have been able to take from Syria and now live in lamentable conditions. A turning point has been reached, particularly in Jordan and Lebanon, because these countries have caved in. Lebanon and Jordan have taken up the highest number of refugees within their borders per capita. The state budgets are certainly insufficient. This brings me closer to today's theme, in particular the international humanitarian aid that is beginning to be lacking. For example, the World Health Organisation had to put three million people without health care because it was looking for EUR 60 million, but only received EUR 5 million. In Lebanon there are few camps and a refugee there has to live with less than 14 euros; not per day, not per week, but 14 euros per month. 14 euros a month! The situation is hopeless. There's no future. Kids can't go to school. Many young people, adolescents, who are coming here now, say that they could not build a future because they could not go to school, university or college. They're all coming at us. Mr Minister, I can briefly summarize my question: where is Belgium? I read that you would pay in three discs, of 14.5 million, 30 million and after your visit another 7.5 million euros. I took the trouble to find out what's going on with that. Grosso mode is only one third of that money already spent. If you would improve me if I were wrong, I would be very pleased, Minister. Two thirds of that money has been promised, but not spent effectively. It is now October 21st and winter is at the door. Of the money promised by Belgium, two thirds are not yet in use. So it's not surprising that people are running away from there. I come to my second series of questions. I have here an article from last week's De Standaard, which shows that three funds were set up at European level, namely the Syrian Fund, a trust fund for Africa and a European fund for UN organisations. I read the following figures. All Member States together promised EUR 500 million for the Syrian Fund, but only EUR 8 million was paid in. Belgium paid zero euros. Where is Belgium? The fund for UN organisations was promised EUR 500 million by the 28 Member States, while only EUR 275 million was released by 10 Member States. Belgium: zero euro. Where is Belgium? I believe that the trust fund for Africa contains 1.7 billion. Of these, nine million euros have already been paid out. België: zero euro. Mr Minister, my question is twofold. Where is Belgium when it comes to participation in European agreed humanitarian aid for the region? I see zero euros at the moment. For what we are doing directly, it is about EUR 51 million. I'm not talking about the 7.5 million euros. Two thirds of these resources have not yet been used. Only a third of the refugees have arrived. Why are we so little efficient in getting the money on the spot? Some amounts have already been promised in March. Why are we doing so badly? Why have these resources not yet been used on the ground?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u4	Mr President, Minister, last summer you announced that you and your colleague from the Netherlands, Mrs Ploumen, would take action to improve the situation in refugee camps in Syria's neighbouring countries. Together, this effort amounted to EUR 78.5 million, including EUR 30 million from the federal budget. You also referred to the slow administrative mill at European level. I have a few brief questions. What budget line does that amount of 30 million come from? How is this expenditure coordinated with European or multilateral institutions? Mr Van der Maelen has already referred to other efforts that have been undertaken in recent weeks and months. How does this additional effort fit into the federal and European policy on the refugee crisis? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u5	Minister, on 16 October you went to Syrian camps near Gaziantep. We went there last year in February, with a number of fellow Members from the Federal and Flemish Parliaments. So I know what you saw. I know what you've been visiting. We read the newspapers and see images here, but the reality is much worse, especially for children and women. My fellow Members have already asked a great many questions. So I won't go too far. Minister, we know that there are 2.5 million Syrian refugees in Turkey. I don't have the right numbers for the camps, but maybe it's just about a fifth or a tenth of the total number. So the worst is not the camps, because at least there is care and training there. You've seen that, too. They are trying to make the best of it in order to catch the people in a humane way, with a great deal of resources from Turkey. I ask the same questions as my fellow Members, but I also wonder what the responsibility of Belgium and Europe is. I miss the coverage of the other Syrian refugees, which are spread across Turkey. People don't talk about it. That situation is much worse compared to the camps. I visited a number of cities during the great holiday. In Istanbul there is no neighborhood or street where children of three, four or five years of age are not begging. We may see this phenomenon here, but it is much worse there. Women are being abused. There are inhumane situations. They're trying to survive. Each of them tells dramatic stories. I've spoken to a number of people myself. I wonder what we are doing from Belgium and from Europe. Actually, we're closing our eyes. I get emotional about that, because I spent a few weeks in those big cities during the big vacation myself and talked to those people. The children looked at me with big eyes, and I felt powerless. Some countries are now building walls and simply want to send the refugees back to Turkey. It's not about being Turkish. It doesn't matter which country it is. Can you imagine that we in Europe should receive 2.5 million refugees? In the newspaper we read that certain municipalities offer some places here and there. That is not the case, Minister. That's inhumane. I agree with the questions put by my fellow Members. Belgium and Europe must do much more than they are doing now. It's far too little. It's a drop on a hot plate. We simply want to avoid the responsibility for those 7.5 million refugees, of which 2.5 million are in certain neighbouring countries. Solve it. We'll buy it off. I don't know if that's human, Minister. I will not repeat the questions, but I agree with the questions put by my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u6	Mr President, Minister, like Mrs Pehlivan and like you, I have had the opportunity to get closer to the conflict and the front line. A year ago, I was in northern Iraq and, a month ago, in Syria and Lebanon. When we are in contact with these people, as you may have been in Turkey too - but I was closer to the front line; as a parliamentarian, we can go closer to the conflict without taking too many risks - we find that the first thing they ask for is protection. It seems obvious, but we forget it a lot. They're asking us to stop this war. It is clear that they need assistance, but the first thing is to stop the war. It makes no sense to receive bread or a tent when you are bombed, raped, harassed. Providing such protection is the first political concern. This must also remain your concern: how can we, as Europeans, intervene to bring this conflict to an end and to put an end to the horrific violence against these people? There is also the question of assistance. We know that the more we are at the heart of the conflict, the more difficult it is to provide assistance. How, together with your European colleagues, can you ensure that this assistance can be delivered to the very heart of the conflict, where people need it most? As far away from the conflict as possible, assistance is easy to provide. The problems found some form of relief and solidarity among the populations hosting refugees. How do we get to the heart of the conflict with assistance? My questions are similar to those of my colleagues, but I first have a preliminary question. Don't you feel like we're acting only because our interests are at stake? With these coming populations, our public opinion is shook and does not want these people to land here. It is therefore preferable to keep them as close as possible to the conflict. We do with what we have, we do with opinion and with the political context in which we work. But is it not a lesson to be learned, in relation to this conflict that will continue to evolve, that we have an interest in investing massively in on-the-spot assistance and protection? We got a lot of numbers: I heard 30 million on your side, I read 54 million on your website. Governments sell the same bowl of soup to public opinion several times. I remember that, during the previous legislature, I was fighting for help, especially in northern Kurdistan, and I did not see any help coming. The aid that had been promised by the Minister for Foreign Affairs turned out to be a private, microscopic aid mobilized by Belgians. We had not done much and the only two million euros had been spent on a fund that we were unable to trace. Is this money finally coming, beyond the announcement effects? How much money finally came to these people, where and for what action exactly, with which operator? Beyond the cheque, the decision of the Council of Ministers or the Kern, it is necessary to ensure that Belgian money really and substantially arrives on the ground. Is it as close as possible to the conflict? Are we able to say today that we are really relieving these people? Are we not making decisions in principle? Do you follow this closely? Can you tell us how many people have been relieved, how and by what operator? You may not answer me today, I am not asking you to go into the details. I ask that this be your concern, so that these people are indeed relieved. I have seen few very concrete things coming from our country on the ground. Our country does not have the reputation of being a donor in these countries. When we talk about Belgium, we think of foreign fighters in these countries. This is what Belgium is thinking today. It's dramatic. They say the Belgians are taking part in the fight alongside the Islamic State. This reputation must change rapidly and radically. It's your responsibility, minister. Turkey has requested additional massive aid. How does Belgium fit into this additional application?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to answer Mr Dallemagne's question about the additional efforts made on the spot by Belgium, but also by other countries and the possible link with the situation we are facing in our country. Pretending there's no causality would be a lie. Unfortunately, in terms of humanitarian aid, the efforts to be made are not lacking. And it is true that the circumstances lead us to intervene by moving from one side to another, which is regrettable. Indeed, each time we have to provide for an allowance that is based on several factors. And in this case, the factor in question was indeed taken into account. On the other hand, you asked me if I was selling the same thing several times. Let us be clear that for this year the budget for humanitarian aid is EUR 150 million. Fifty-one million of this amount will be spent on humanitarian assistance in the region. In comparison, our previous commitment was $40 million over a three-year period. In other words, this year's aid is a quarter of the aid provided in the past. It can therefore be said that the funds made available to help this region have been drastically increased. We do this mainly through UN organisations and large NGOs. We are doing this in that way because that is actually the most efficient way of working today. It is indeed the disadvantage, Mr Dallemagne, that the Belgian flag should not be planted there. But, honestly, I don't think that's really important right now. What is important is that the money is being used in the most effective way. Mr van der Maelen, you are asking how much of that budget has already been spent. According to you, only a third of them were issued. The technical and factual answer is that everything will be published by the end of January 2016. However, there is also a second element. You're saying that only a third of the money was spent. Now, a lot of NGOs work through pre-financing. They already do the spending and then recover it from the funds we pay. It is not, therefore, because the funds we spend have not yet got to the NGO, that the NGO has not done so yet. Hence, the calculation according to which only one third would have been issued is incorrect. So it is not true that only a third of the population has arrived. Don't forget that the 30 million issue decision dates back to September, very recently. Would I rather it go faster? Yes. On the other hand, there are rules on working with external partners to ensure that there are no problems. Of course, I have to follow those rules for a piece. As far as the trust fund for that region is concerned, our vision is that we prefer to work directly. So you can say that Belgium has spent EUR zero on that trust fund. That is correct, but that does not mean that we have spent EUR zero on this issue. We choose to work directly with UN organisations, large NGOs or the Red Cross because we are not really convinced that an additional trust fund is the right instrument for this. If you use these figures, take into account the fact that we do a lot of business outside the trust fund. The Sahel Trust Fund does not yet exist. It has not yet been created, so Belgium has not yet made a commitment. Allow me first to want to know what it is before admitting it. In such situations, I think it is too often that countries are asked to commit, while six months after the commitment it is not clear what will happen with these resources. In this context, I am thinking, for example, of the Green Climate Fund. Everyone was put under pressure to make an effort, and I am still defending that we in Development Cooperation have ensured that resources were available, but for a long time it was completely unclear what would happen with these resources. So I am not necessarily opposed to such funds, but I sometimes have a certain suspicion. I am now going into more detail and I am quoting some figures as to the source of the means. The budget line for flexible humanitarian funds, humanitarian emergency response funds, namely the Emergency Response Funds, €3.75 million for Syria, €3.75 million for Lebanon, €3.75 million for Jordan and €5.125 million for Turkey. For the UNICEF humanitarian fund for Syria, our contribution is €5 million. These flexible funds cover two years. Therefore, amounts of the same height are already planned for 2016. For the one-year humanitarian project budget line, the contribution is as follows: EUR 1.125 million for OCHA's humanitarian information coordination, advocacy and management activities in Syria, EUR 3 million for UNHCR's activities for Syrian refugees in the region, EUR 3 million for WFP's activities and EUR 1.5 million for UNRWA's activities for Palestinian refugees in Syria and the region. As regards the situation in Turkey, as I have already said in the media, I believe that the situation in the camps in Nizip, as we have noted, cannot be much better for a refugee camp. No one dreams of ever ending up in a refugee camp. It is difficult to imagine the hopelessness in these camps if they have not been there. But from a purely utilitarian perspective, the circumstances there are quite good. The refugees have often been there for three years. Their perspective is very limited. It is quite clear that the possibility to leave the camps to take a walk in the nearest city, at 50 kilometers, is about zero. Despite the fact that there are, among other things, small libraries and schools, this is a very confrontational situation, even though the situation in some other camps is much worse. The majority of the population is indeed in the cities. We visited a project in Gaziantep, a kind of community center managed by local NGOs. I can only admire what those people are doing there. It's unlikely what they're doing there. If I'm right, they've been helping 100 000 people in the one community center we've been visiting over the past year. It is unlikely how many people pass by there, who are trying to show off the facilities that the Turks provide. And there are. In the area of health care, Turkey is making a major effort. We do not directly support such projects. They are financially supported by UNHCR and we give funds to UNHCR. In short, we must not be blind to the efforts that are being made there. When one speaks to the people there, as is evident from all sorts of questions, the vast majority wants to return to Syria as soon as possible. Absolutely. There are people who would like to come to Europe, but the majority does not really want to come to Europe. One is aware of the fact that returning to Syria today is unfortunately very difficult. In any case, there is little point in leaving the region. The only reason people leave the region is because the situation has become too hopeless at some point. I am not saying that Europe should not assume its responsibilities. We are now standing on our backs because we have to take in 400 000 refugees, but the city of Istanbul alone has 400 000, a city versus 28 European countries. The solution is to a large extent that reception in Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey is organised in a very different way. It is an illusion to think that these countries can do so alone. Most countries in demographic terms are completely at their limit and other countries, such as Turkey, are also at budgetary level. That is why I have advocated that these countries should be given a special status at a certain point in time. We need resources from an international context. I am thinking of organisations such as the World Bank. Instead of investing in infrastructure, they need to invest at some point in something that is on the border between humanitarian aid and development. We need a development policy in these countries to ensure that the millions of refugees who, I fear, will continue to be able to integrate into that society for a time to come, and to build something there with all the difficulties that it will bring. I am not saying that from the perspective that our problem will be less if they are kept there. I don't think so. Europe will have to make more efforts, but that will never be the solution in itself. Twelve million people are out there on the wild or displaced. They will never all be able to come to Europe, and they do not all want to come to Europe. Reception in the region is an important piece of puzzles. The UNHCR High Commissioner, Mr Guterres, is also fully on that line. He's always delivered that message. That's part of the story. Will we have to make additional efforts in the coming years for Syria? I think so. We have made a huge step forward over the past few years. We will continue to do so, but I hope the other countries will do the same. Mr Van der Maelen, according to this year's absolute figures, not the per capita figures, Belgium is number seven in Europe. You can say that this can be better, but in absolute terms being number seven in Europe may not be so bad. If we add population figures, we are certainly not number seven in Europe. But it seems to me to be wrong to say that Belgium is not making any effort. I hope that other countries will do the same as Belgium and the Netherlands today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u8	Minister, I have listened to you with great attention. My two main points dealt with what we are doing bilaterally and the fact that only a third of them have been spent. You say that part of the aid goes to the NGOs. Mr. Secretary, I've been looking at UNOCHA's financial tracking service. The amounts that have gone to NGOs are quite low. Even assuming that the promised amounts have already been issued by NGOs, these are not significant amounts. I'll try again. If I am correct, you promised the first EUR 14.5 million in March. We are 20 October today and only 9.9 million dollars have already been spent. Even of those 14.5 million euros, which you promised in March, UNOCHA's financial tracking service says that only 9.9 million dollars have been spent effectively. Even for the amounts you promised in March, there is a big problem: the money does not end up with the people. I find my information at UNOCHA. If you wish, you can clarify for the report how much money you have given to NGOs. If I look at the list, that can't be a big amount. I'll come to the trust funds. Firstly, Minister, you confirm that Belgium has not yet spent a single euro on the European agreements and on the promised amount of 500 million to the UN. Your reply was that you prefer direct support. That brings us to the discussion about what is best now. I'm not saying that's a point of my faith. There are examples that have shown that if you go along European roads, they are sometimes very long. In this case, however, that is not the case, because our Belgian aid also takes a very long time. Moreover, if I am not mistaken, if I am mistaken, the trust fund for Syria was set up in April or May. So that was in the fourth or fifth month of this year and it will soon be the eleventh month. In an article published in De Standaard last days, one defends oneself by saying that it takes six months for it to be in Europe. If we had been with the first countries, if we had deposited the money, that money would have been around the place by now. I always believe that it is much better, even for a small country like Belgium, to do something together with the other European countries. That means a much lower administrative burden for ourselves, and it makes it much easier to follow up on the dossier. I continue to believe that those who follow that sort of thing at European level have a more complete and better view of our aid than we do. You also noted that the trust fund for Africa does not yet exist. However, there are already countries that have deposited money in it and Belgium has not. If I'm not mistaken, there's a summit in La Valletta somewhere in the middle of November. Other countries are already working on this and have already made decisions. More generally, it bothers me very much that, while our Prime Minister and our Foreign Minister sit at the table and decide to cooperate in the Syria Fund and the African Fund, and to give the UN 500 million, the negotiators look each other in the eye and make solemn promises about twenty-eight is fifty-six people, you as our Minister for Development Cooperation say you prefer to work alone. I don't think that's possible. One thing or another: either we say at European level that we prefer to do it ourselves and alone, or we agree with European decision-making. The last one's hard enough as it is. I come to a final point about the trust fund Africa. Maybe it's a good thing we haven't put any money in it yet, Minister. I'm a little worried about that. When I read the stories about this, I see a great risk of pollution of development cooperation. I'm declaring myself. ODA money will be used for home affairs missions, border surveillance and the establishment of shelters wherever people are screened. These are expenditures entered in our budget with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I am counting on you, Minister, to say that our money, which will be paid into the Africa Fund, will be used for development cooperation. I know that this debate is being held at European level. Development cooperation can play a very important role in preventing migratory flows by creating living conditions, so that people no longer want to flee. Development money is not used to stop or control migratory flows. On behalf of my group, I would like to make an appeal to you. I hope that we will participate in the Africa Fund. I am a European federalist and I believe in that. I am counting on you to ensure that our Belgian money, together with the development money from the other European countries, is used for the development of countries and not for the surveillance of borders in those African countries, so that people stay within those borders. This money must be used to improve the living conditions of the peoples of those countries. In doing so, we are making a very important contribution to preventing undesirable migratory flows.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for the figures. We are also convinced that much of the solution lies in development aid on the ground, both budgetary and organisational. Considering that only as a way to keep the migrants out of this, seems to me a little too short. There is a clear need for our country to cooperate and support.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I can go along with your discourse: it is obvious and realistic that we cannot simply transfer 12 million refugees to Europe. However, one cannot expect people to spend years in refugee camps, especially in the case of children born in the camps. I do not need to draw a picture of the problems that arise when young people grow up in camps. In this sense, I expect that, in the context of development cooperation, but also much wider at European level, we will be knocking much harder on the table to allow much more facilities for the countries that are now receiving the refugees. After a certain period, refugees must be able to live their lives; we must not lock them in camps for life, because that is a question of difficulties. Especially in large cities, we should be able to support projects to allow refugees to develop their lives in a humane way. Let us not turn a blind eye: it will not improve in the coming years. It will take ten, fifteen, twenty years before these countries can really be built up and refugees could possibly return. If they do, they must be able to bring a backpack with luggage, so that they can build a new life in their own country. I expect you to stand up in Belgium and Europe for those people who need it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u11	Minister, thank you for your answer and for your thoughts on the future. I share your feeling that the vast majority of these people would not have wanted to leave their country and that they would like to return as soon as possible. You take it that it's better for them to stay in the area. It is a logical deduction, but I think it is often forgotten that what is needed above all is to stop this conflict. That sounds obvious, but I like to remind you because we're still stalling on it. We are talking about the crisis of reception, the crisis of asylum, but in reality we are witnessing a terrible brutal and massive war at our borders. We are here to observe it and to suffer the consequences. These consequences are going to be more and more massive because we have neither the audacity nor the sufficient political creativity to intervene in this conflict. We are therefore reduced to trying to keep these populations as close as possible to the conflict. It's a bad move. However, since there is no answer to this first requirement, the idea of consolidating reception in the host countries is an important one. We have to completely change the way we see things. But we must also put the means into it. We're not gonna make it with 50 million. I'm not saying it's not much. You have the merit of significantly increasing this aid, but it is not with this amount that we will achieve it. You have to be serious. If a strategy like this is to be put in place, it will require extremely important means to achieve it. On the basis of the first pieces of information you have given us, I will rest you in the form of written questions specific requests concerning the operators, the money that has already been committed, etc. in such a way that we can have a precise budget table of countries, operators and amounts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u12	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Dirk Van der Maelen and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Dirk Van der Maelen and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Development Cooperation, Digital Agenda, Telecommunications and Post, calls on the government to 1) to effectively pay out the commitments made (pledges) and commitments already made (commitments) in the context of the humanitarian crisis in Syria and neighbouring countries by the date of 11 November 2015 at the latest; 2) officially subscribe to the Emergency Fund for Stability and address the root causes of irregular migration and refugees in Africa, following the example of Germany, Spain, Finland and Luxembourg." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Dirk Van der Maelen and reads as follows: The Chamber, ayant entendu l.o.interpellation de M. Dirk Van der Maelen and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Development Cooperation, Digital Agenda, Telecommunications and Post Office, calls the government 1) to fulfil, by 11 November 2015, the commitments (pledges and commitments) made in the context of the humanitarian crisis in Syria and neighbouring countries; 2) formally subscribe to the Emergency Trust Fund for stability and the fight against the root causes of illegal migration in Africa, like Germany, Spain, Finland and Luxembourg." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Rita Bellens, Mrs Sarah Claerhout and Mr Nele Lijnen and Mr Tim Vandenput. A simple motion was tabled by Rita Bellens, Sarah Claerhout and Nele Lijnen and Tim Vandenput. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u13	Mr President, Minister, in the context of the oral questions, it would be interesting to keep the issue of the flow of refugees and the reception and treatment on the ground regularly on the agenda in the future. Yesterday I mentioned this in this committee. I believe that everyone agrees, across party boundaries, that we should focus on aid in the region on the ground, with the aim of helping the people there. Not to stop migratory flows and keep the people there, but to help in their own region. Above all, I propose that we discuss the political aspect rather than the technical and financial aspect, although this is also important. In particular, we should be able to follow up regularly on the political aspect. There is a joint committee with the Committee on European Affairs and perhaps we should wait for that committee to see how we implement it in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u14	Perhaps we can agree with the Minister that if there is any news on this, he will report on further developments in a meeting such as this. Another possibility is to use the Rules of Procedure, although I do not like that method, because I think it would be better to agree on this in consultation. However, I would like to inform the younger fellow Members that the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber provide that whenever a decision is taken at European level which falls within the remit of the minister who comes to the committee meeting, Members of Parliament have the right to question the Minister without submitting a question to the Minister in courteous manner, the Minister may well be informed in advance. I am thinking, for example, of the possibility of having the decisions taken at the Development Council on 16 October last. The Rules of Procedure allow this procedure. However, if the Minister is now committed to producing, at the request of the committee, every time he comes and when there is news, a report to which my fellow Members will be able to respond, then we will agree. Minister, if you tell the committee secretariat in advance when you will be presenting a report, we will be able to inform Members that you are giving a report on developments in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u15	(...) [[microphone not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u16	We also have an opinion on this. That is why I referred to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u17	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u18	Good. I propose that we now proceed to the end of our agenda. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Hoof's 4858 will be converted into a written question. The questions under item 2 are postponed for a moment, because Mr Dallemagne is currently asking an oral question in another committee, as is Mr Crusnière. As soon as Mr Grovonius, Mr Crusnière and Mr Dallemagne are here, I will give them the opportunity to ask their questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u19	Mr President, Minister, I refer to the Annual Report on Belgian Cooperation and Policy Coherence. I welcome the fact that, to date, the Advisory Council on Policy Coherence is apparently effective. However, I have a few questions to ask you about the other commitments you are bound by in this context. Minister, what about the impact assessment report that began in January 2014 and is still not made public? An Interdepartmental Commission had recently been set up, but it was not known who was sitting there. Can you tell us about the names and profiles of the people who make up it? One of the Commission's tasks is to monitor the work of the Interdepartmental Conference on Policy Coherence, which does not yet exist. Will it be set up or do you intend to work on these issues within the framework of an existing commission? You said in a previous debate that this situation was the result of a lack of will on the part of the regions. Can you tell us more about this? Finally, a person will be engaged in the Coherence cell. It seems that the Commission will have to deal primarily with the work of the Interdepartmental Commission. What will be the tasks of this Commission in the absence of the Interministerial Conference? What kind of collaboration will be planned between the Coherence Cell and the Advisory Board?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u20	Mr President, the installation of the Interdepartmental Commission for Policy Coherence for Development was the subject of a royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers and published in the Belgian Monitor on 31 July 2015. The Commission is composed of a representative and an alternate representative designated by the sixteen federal public services and programming services. The federated entities are also represented. It is chaired by the Director-General of DG Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid. The 2014 Royal Decree on its creation set out priority areas for policy coherence for development: trade and finance, climate change, food security, migration, peace and security. It also established the missions, much broader than the work of the Inter-Ministerial Commission in 2014. The Interdepartmental Commission met for the first time on 7 October. It discussed its rules of procedure and the priorities of the various departments. The Government decided in October 2014 not to establish an Interministerial Commission for Policy Coherence for Development. There are already too many forums for consultation in this regard. Moreover, policy coherence is not an issue in itself, but rather an indispensable political approach. I felt that other interdepartmental committees, including the External Relations Committee, could ensure better coordination in this area. The Development Policy Coherence Unit of DG Development was strengthened on 1 June by the arrival of a level A official. Its mission is to animate and provide the secretariat of the Interdepartmental Commission, to collaborate with the Development Policy Coherence Advisory Board and to participate in the Regulatory Impact Assessment Monitoring Committee, chaired by the Administrative Simplification Agency. A possible report on the impact assessment of regulations is submitted to this Agency and to the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, responsible for the administrative simplification deputy to the Minister of Security and Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u21	Minister, when you say that the first meeting was held on 7 October, that the priorities were discussed within the various departments, which departments are you talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u22	The text referred to sixteen public services and federal programming services. These are the ones!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u23	Thank you for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u24	Mr President, Minister, at our hearing on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) on 2 June 2015, you told us that you would represent Belgium at the Addis Conferences on Financing and at the UN Post-2015 Development Agenda Summit. The universal process attributed to the next SDGs implies the idea of inclusion and participation of all actors, including civil society, in the implementation, monitoring and evaluation, the progress of the post-2015 agenda. Minister, what ambition does Belgium have in terms of participatory and inclusive civil society processes with regard to the implementation and monitoring of future SDGs? What position does Belgium take with regard to strengthening the legitimacy of the High-level Political Forum (HLPF) in this regard by strengthening its mandate, by implementing an independent, autonomous, clean and efficient secretariat and by recognising and insisting on items 15 to 17 (participation of civil society) of the UNGA Resolution 69/270 establishing it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u25	Mr President, Mrs Grovonius, the involvement of civil society is a substantial part of sustainable development policy and recognized as such at the time of the first Rio Conference in 1992. In Belgium, we took this to our heart and tried as much as possible to involve civil society in sustainable development policy. For example, the Federal Council for Sustainable Development, with which close cooperation was established, was repeatedly called upon to deliver opinions. Besides this, there is also a space reserved for representatives of civil society in Belgian delegations at international meetings in the framework of Sustainable Development and Climate. The importance we attach to the involvement of civil society continues to remain relevant in the context of the post-2015 agenda. The importance we attach to the involvement of civil society continues to remain relevant in the context of the post-2015 agenda in terms of involvement and monitoring, as well as in the setting of the agenda itself, to which civil society has been associated via the above-mentioned channels. I recently called on the Federal Council on Sustainable Development (FRDO) to seek their views on the post-2015 agenda and the least developed countries (LDCs). In addition, representatives of civil society are linked to the FRDO as observers in the context of the multi-stakeholder exercise on the determination of Belgium's position on the 2015 agenda. The High Level Political Forum (HLPF) played a central role in post-2015 monitoring at a global level. It was decided to set up post-2015 at the Rio+20 Summit in 2012. This legitimacy is also recognized in the recent post-2015 zero draft. We're delighted. With resolution VNAV 67/290, the HLPF also received a very strong mandate. The paragraphs you cited in relation to the involvement of the stakeholders are a good example. We consider the participation of the stakeholders to be a good practice, but we must ensure that it is consistent and does not remain a dead letter so that it can also be used for other forums. Rather than strengthening the mandate of the HLPF, it is important to ensure that this mandate is effectively implemented. We are fighting for a United Nations system that is as effective and efficient as possible, avoiding duplication and fragmentation and making maximum use of what is at our disposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u26	Mr President, Minister, Finland has a new government. He presented a programme based on a policy of austerity. It will reduce public spending by freezing certain social assistance, lowering allocations for education and reducing certain public services. Development aid is also in line: it will be cut by 43%. This cut could kill Finnish NGOs, but it also affects the country's partner countries and organisations. It also undermines the European effort in development cooperation. Finland was, however, thus far one of the main European donors in terms of its gross national income. Minister, since Finland is a member of the European Union, do you intend to talk to your counterpart or the representative of that country in Belgium about this decision? What is your position on this decision? Did we have joint partner countries within the framework of direct bilateral cooperation? Were we funding NGOs (indirect bilateral cooperation) or agencies (multilateral cooperation) in partnership with Finland? If so, what impact can this have on the programmes we share?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I respect the sovereignty of Finland and its Government. The decision to reduce the budget of the Cooperation is that of a government that has been legitimately elected and has a parliamentary majority. As you know, the Belgian Government has also decided to cut its budget for cooperation, even if it is to a lesser extent. However, I was not questioned by my Finnish colleague. Finland has long-term bilateral cooperation with seven partner countries: Ethiopia, Kenya, Mozambique, Nepal, Tanzania, Zambia and Vietnam. In terms of government cooperation, the partner countries common to our two countries are Mozambique and Tanzania, with Vietnam no longer being part of the partner countries. In this sense, the analysis and decisions of Belgium and Finland concerning these middle-income countries are consistent. We need to develop relationships of collaboration other than those of aid dependency. Belgian cooperation does not have co-financing with Finland. Thus, there will be no impact on projects financed by Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u28	Mr President, Minister, on the basis of the list of new partners in multilateral cooperation set out in the Royal Order of May 29, 2015, I would like to ask you the following questions. The list of multilateral partners, UNHCR, OCHA, UNRWA, WFP and ICRC, a range of actors working on humanitarian assistance, has been removed. What are the reasons for this choice, knowing that no more humanitarian organizations are included in the list? UNRWA was removed from the list while Belgium had just released a new amount of 18.75 million euros for the period 2015-2017. How do you justify this lack of consistency? IMF is one of the new partners in multilateral cooperation. Can you explain this choice to us?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u29	Madam, the list of multilateral humanitarian partners is not included in the Royal Decree of 29 May 2015 because humanitarian organisations (the ICRC, UNHCR, OCHA and WFP) are protected as humanitarian partner organisations by the Royal Decree of 19 April 2014 on humanitarian aid. They should therefore no longer be included in the list of multilateral cooperation partner organisations. In addition, the Council of Ministers approved a draft amending the Royal Decree of 19 April 2014 on humanitarian aid to ensure UNRWA's place as a partner organisation for humanitarian aid. This royal decree was published in the Moniteur belge on 7 July 2015. Belgium has been financing the IMF Tax Policy and Administration Thematic Trust Fund since 2011. The fund has been placed for various reasons by the Council of Ministers on the list of multilateral partner organizations. First, there is an increasing interest in strengthening local tax administration and increasing tax revenues in developing countries, which are increasingly important in financing development. Secondly, the topic is relevant in relation to the other Belgian Development Cooperation initiatives, financed both bilaterally and multilaterally. Thus, the activities undertaken within the framework of this fund are fully in line with the objectives set by Belgium in its efforts in other areas such as combating illicit financial flows, capital flight, vulture funds and others. Third, the quality of the management of the organization is also taken into account, with particular emphasis on achieving the results of the targeted developments. Finally, it goes without saying that the integration of an analysis organisation of the partners gives collaboration with the latter another dimension, giving it a more formal character by its selection as a recognized partner.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u30	Mr President, Minister, in June 2012, the 184 members of the International Labour Organization adopted Recommendation 202 on national social protection floors. Social protection floors should include at least basic social security guarantees such as access to a set of nationally defined goods and services as essential health care, including maternity care that meets the criteria of availability, accessibility, acceptability and quality. The idea of setting up such a fund is supported by the International Coalition for Social Protection Floors, composed of more or less 90 NGOs and trade union federations. Social protection is also mentioned as a target in the draft of SDGs 1 and 10 (which is no longer a draft). The administration of such a fund and its financing are the subject of various concrete proposals which could be easily implemented since, formally, a similar but largely ignored fund already exists within the United Nations. This is the World Solidarity Fund for Social Protection. At this stage, however, there still seems to be a clear desire to set up such a fund. Minister, are you aware of this proposal? Have you ever had an opportunity to examine its relevance? During your trip to Addis Ababa last July, did you plead on behalf of Belgium for the creation and supply of such a fund?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u31	Mr President, you will certainly agree with me that all questions are important, but I understand your interest in this question. Mrs Grovonius, from 2012, our compatriot Olivier De Schutter, UN Special Rapporteur on the right to food, and Magdalena Sepúlveda, his counterpart in charge of extreme poverty and human rights, had launched the idea of creating a fund for social protection. So far, the project has not received sufficient support from donor countries for the Fund to emerge. I believe that caution should be exercised when talking about the creation of vertical funds. Indeed, we must avoid the establishment of organisations that would make the structure of the United Nations even more complex and costly. Unlike the very well-functioning Global Fund against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, a global fund for social protection is difficult to achieve because of its multidimensional nature. Social protection covers a wide range of issues, such as health, education, unemployment, income and pensions. Such a fund could lead to overlap with the mandate of other UN organisations, such as the International Labour Organisation, the International Health Organisation or UNICEF. However, I consider it important that international organizations involved in this issue and donors exchange information and lessons learned and coordinate their activities. Belgian Cooperation and the SPF Social Security actively participate in an informal international platform called Social Protection Inter-agency Coordination Board. Its purpose is to exchange experiences and harmonize data on social protection in order to promote the development of social protection and social protection floors in developing countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u32	Minister, thank you for your answer. I do not see how such a fund could complicate the United Nations or interfere with other organizations. The aim is to find a mechanism to answer the precise question of the financing of minimum social protection floors. This has nothing to do with agencies such as UNICEF. I regret your lack of enthusiasm for this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u33	Mr President, Minister, a while ago, in spring, there was an earthquake in Nepal. It was a poignant situation in which a lot of aid was started. The World Food Programme also took action. In May it appeared that rice had been delivered from which people became seriously ill. Measures would be taken. Certain cases were sent back and cases that were really bad were removed. A month later, the measures of the World Food Programme proved not to have been so efficient as the same problem once again arose. Rice and lentils were delivered which again did not comply with international standards. In what way does Belgium contribute to the World Food Programme? In what way can we help to prevent this sort of thing? If we send help to Nepal, it is obviously not desirable for people to get sick of it. What measures were initially taken by the WFP in May to avoid the problems? What clearly didn't work? What measures can we take in our cooperation with the WFP to prevent such cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u34	Mr President, when the first accusations about the poor quality of rice were made in May, the WFP and its partner, the Red Cross Nepal, immediately had the allegations investigated. No evidence of spoiled rice was found. However, more than 25% of the rice was broken. Because the WFP understands that there is often a preference for non-broken rice, the organisation has replaced the remaining five tonnes and the WFP ended its collaboration with the local supplier. In June, the WFP investigated two separate allegations of spoiled rice. In the first case, the WFP found that the rice was not from the WFP. In the second case, the Nepalese Red Cross quickly identified the problem which prevented the distribution of the spoiled rice. In June, a large shipment of yellow split peas was also checked on arrival. These did not meet the quality standards of the WFP. As soon as the problem was identified, the contract with the supplier was cancelled. This food was not handed over to the communities. The WFP takes these incidents very seriously, even though they represent only a small percentage of the total operation. The above cases show that the WFP has a rigorous food quality control system As mentioned above, all the food distributed by the WFP to the earthquake survivors was edible and safe for consumption. These cases show that the system works because in all cases the problem was identified before the food was distributed. The WFP shall examine all food quality and food safety complaints as soon as they are received. The WFP takes food quality and food safety very seriously and the strict food quality standards comply with the Nepalese government's regulations. The WFP has a system of controls for their food supply chain from purchase to transport, storage and distribution. They cooperate with the government and their distribution partners, including the Nepalese Red Cross, to ensure that the necessary controls are carried out. The WFP has been in Nepal for more than 50 years since 1964 and remains committed to helping with the Nepalese Government and the population to recover after the earthquake of 25 April and to work in the longer term towards achieving the government's objective of ending the hunger problem. All food distributed by the WFP to the survivors of the earthquake of April 25 in Nepal was edible and safe for consumption. Belgium attaches particular importance to the monitoring of the WFP's actions. Belgium is part of the WFP Executive Board and in this sense ensures the effectiveness of its policy. In addition, bilateral consultations allow Belgium to ask questions to the WFP to ensure the monitoring of the activities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u35	Minister, I have one more question for clarification. What was delivered in May was that only broken rice that did not give rise to the disease of those children in Nepal?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u36	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u37	Does anyone know where that rice came from? After all, this is a major accusation against the WFP. It seems logical to me that they want to rectify this. Have you heard anything about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u38	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u39	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u40	Mr President, this is again a somewhat old question. I will try to update it on what has happened since and on what we have received in recent weeks from the minister or his chief of staff. With regard to humanitarian aid to Burundian refugees, we have the impression that there is a form of blocking the dialogue – at least we can say – with the decision to freeze the amounts that we allocate in the framework of Belgian Development Cooperation (EUR 60 million). Of course, we support this decision as these financial amounts can be reallocated to support actions within the framework of civil society. Most recently, the ambassador was dismissed. The least we can say is that diplomatic relations are very tense today. What is planned in terms of identification for new Burundian local partners? Has civil society (i.e. social change actors and not private companies) been consulted? Has Belgian civil society, particularly the domes that work here in Belgium, been involved in this work in support of Burundian civil society?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u41	Mr President, I thank my two colleagues for agreeing to postpone their questions since I was selected in the Finance Committee in the debate on the tax shift. I am not going back to the situation that my colleague has already described. We know that since the election of President Nkurunziza, it has become increasingly complicated. Tension continues to rise at the political and security level, causing many Burundians to flee outside Burundi, in neighbouring areas. Mr Minister, is Belgium providing material and/or financial assistance to help all these refugees who are still in the region? If this is not the case, is this envisaged for the next few days or months? At present and until the end of this year, what are the different programmes or projects Belgium continues to support in Burundi in this context? What are your relations with the Burundian authorities today? What is the impact of the government's previous decisions to stop correctly, as my colleague has said, police cooperation with this country? With regard to possible additional sanctions, would Belgium maintain the various development programmes and projects it had with many Burundian civil society actors for the benefit of the population? This question was also raised by my colleague. What additional sanctions does the Belgian Government envisage in relation to the situation? Finally, at European level, what is clearly the graduation of sanctions provided for by the European Union? Could we go as far as a decision to abolish European official development assistance (ODA) and Member States coming there also directly to help the people?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u42	Mr President, Mr Minister, my questions are of course in line with those of my colleagues, namely where we are about the reorientation of Belgian cooperation in Burundi. What amounts are involved and which operators have been selected? In what areas? What exactly are they doing? You have used a political tool, namely the suspension of this state-to-state cooperation, hoping that it will have political consequences as well. Where do we stand in relation to this ability or will? Furthermore, does Belgium benefit from the solidarity of the other countries of the European Union in this respect? How is communication with your colleagues going since our ambassador's representation on the spot has not been renewed? What about other diplomatic representations on the spot? Shouldn't we have expected a more general diplomatic movement, firmer and clearer on the part of European colleagues?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u43	Mr Dallemagne, the Federal Council of Ministers approved on 21 May 2015 on my proposal a new list of partner countries for Belgian development cooperation and decided to continue the partnership with Burundi. Belgium thus intends to remain in solidarity with the Burundian population. On the other hand, it had been decided that, in the event of continued violence under the Arusha agreements, our country would not conclude a conventional bilateral cooperation agreement with the Burundian government. Since the decision of 21 May 2015, prudential measures had already been taken by government cooperation. On 2 September 2015, I announced my decision to take action on the government cooperation programme with Burundi. The actions are immediate. In the sector of concentration (agriculture, health, education), interventions continue, with the exception of institutional support that is suspended. All support for governance is suspended, including justice support, given the lack of independence of justice actors. Support for the police is being stopped in the light of the deteriorating security situation. I have also asked to limit contacts with the Burundian authorities and to ensure that all interventions are conducted in a controlled manner. All channels combined, Belgian official development assistance with Burundi amounted to €46.4 million in 2014. The budget for the indicative cooperation programme 2010-2013, i.e. government cooperation, is 200 million. The measures adopted on 2 October have a budgetary impact on a number of ongoing interventions foreseen in the indicative cooperation programme, with a total budget of over EUR 60 million yet to be achieved. However, the budgetary impact of these measures will only be known exactly in the coming months, given that certain activities will be maintained and others suspended, that the expenditure for which we are contractually bound could still take place, and that these are suspensive and not yet definitive measures. The resources released will be reoriented according to the needs to ensure continuity of support to the population, either within the sectors of concentration or to a new programme for democracy and human rights. Belgium will seek to work with actors other than the Burundian central authorities. Support for civil society actors will be maintained and even strengthened. Belgium and the European Union must in any case remain attentive to the plight of human rights defenders. For the period 2014-2016, a total of 30 programmes and projects from non-governmental actors were co-financed totalling $7.8 million in 2014. This applies to NGOs as well as universities, trade unions, mutual societies and APEFE. Belgian cooperation respects the autonomy of non-governmental actors in implementing their programme with their partners. Stakeholders therefore decide independently on the evolution of their program according to the situation, including security. However, I would ask the other Belgian actors to be consistent with the positions I have taken for government cooperation. As far as the contacts are concerned, they have been regular with our partners in order to inform them of these decisions and reduced to their strict minimum with the Burundian authorities. It is not a question of cutting bridges, but of marking our disapproval of the current situation. Consultations are regular between the Member States involved in Burundi. They are reflected in the various conclusions of the European Council of recent months, the recently decided individual sanctions measures and the preparation of dialogue under Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement, approved by the same Council conclusions. We are aligning ourselves with the Article 96 process provided for in the Cotonou Agreement. The Agreement provides for a political dialogue on all matters of mutual interest as well as at national, regional or ACP level. Proceedings are instituted in cases of human rights violations or corruption, including the suspension of aid. This process is expected to bring us to the end of March 2016. It is still too early to prejudge the Article 96 process under the Cotonou Agreement. However, the objective is to bring the Burundian authorities to more political openness: respect for the principles contained in the Cotonou Agreement to which they are party. The Article 96 dialogue does not automatically lead to sanctions, it can lead to a reorientation of European resources. In any case, all actors present in Burundi intend to limit the impact of the measures that will be taken on the Burundian population. Depending on the outcome of the discussions between the European Union and Burundi, the Belgian interventions suspended will either be stopped or restarted and modified. I will make these decisions no later than April 2016. Belgians present in Burundi are invited to register on the lists of the embassy alert system. The security of the latter was enhanced by the presence of the military. The Embassy follows the required reporting procedures in the event of a crisis. Generally speaking, the travel notice does not recommend all trips to Burundi. Belgians who are currently in Burundi and whose presence is not essential are invited to consider a possible departure as long as normal conditions permit. In particular, for Belgian technical cooperation, measures have been strengthened: the system of sending security messages, extended vacancies for staff, the return of families, junior assistants and non-essential staff to Belgium, psychosocial support arrangements, etc. The number of members of the Belgian Technical Cooperation has decreased by half. They're integrated into embassy systems. As for the ACNG (Actors of Non-Governmental Cooperation), they have their own alert system and are the only ones to decide on the withdrawal or return of their expatriate staff. This right of initiative was left to them by the Cooperation, but they must remain in close contact with the Embassy. It communicates evacuation plans, which concern all expats present, including members of the ACNG. The measures taken by the latter are either telework, a fallback on Kigali or a return to Belgium. With regard to the situation of refugees, I have decided to grant two million euros to the World Food Programme to provide food aid to Burundi and Burundian refugees in Rwanda and two million euros to the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees to assist them in Rwanda and Tanzania. I have asked my administration to monitor the situation for possible additional contributions. Contributions have already been made to flexible humanitarian funds for urgent action. For example, €20 million was committed in 2015 to the CERF (Central Emergency Response Fund), which is linked to the OCHA (Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs). In addition, in the same year, we allocated € 22.5 million to the UNHCR (United Nations High Commissioner for the Refugees), € 12 million to the ICRC (International Committee of the Red Cross) and € 6,750 million to the OCHA. These contributions are essential for our humanitarian partners on the ground, as they enable them to respond to such situations with optimal funding flexibility at the operational level. With regard to Mr Dallemagne's question about our partners, the discussion is going on very narrowly. In fact, we can see that the Netherlands and Germany, which are still two important donors in Burundi, fully share our position. The same applies to the European Union. France's position raises a little more questions. But as I said for Finland, it is a sovereign country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u44	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. Having said that, I can't quite understand the freezing of those 60 million. Does this mean that we wait until the end of March to see how the political situation is changing or that this amount is already being used to support associations, projects supporting the development of civil society, organisations working to respect human rights or the media? Indeed, there are major questions on the ground at this level, as Burundi's media are closed down. I hear you when you say that there are programmes on human rights and civil society support and that you continue to support them. I understand that you want to set up new projects in this context in the future. But I have the feeling that all this has nothing to do with the 60 million that is in question and that a manna exists and that it is not used, which I find regrettable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u45	I can only spend every euro once. Since the budgets are frozen for the time being to know the outcome of the Article 96 dialogue, if some of the 60 million were used now and if, after that, there were positive developments in Burundi, I would be embarrassed because some projects would be de facto cancelled. Today, however, projects are not cancelled, they are frozen. I am not in a position to anticipate the results of the discussions on Article 96. The current projects supported by civil society are obviously not affected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u46	I have an additional question to ask you in this context. Let us imagine that there is no positive political development by March. Will these amounts be lost? You can only spend them once, but you can only spend them in a budget that is determined annually?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u47	No, they are multi-annual programmes. A commitment is made and in the implementation of these cooperation programmes, some are spent in three years, but execution often takes additional years. Therefore, these are planned amounts, but some will be spent in 2016, and others will be spent in 2017. If the result of Article 96 is negative, these amounts will be redirected to other items. So, I'm going to be very clear, the sixty million will not be lost but are frozen for now. In addition, the members of the opposition, notably Mr Claver, who is currently in Belgium, support our approach. I understand what you're thinking, but my mind isn't that twisted. I have no intention of evaporating these budgets if the result on Article 96 is negative.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u48	Thank you for your answers, Minister. Perhaps I was distracted from one element: the situation in Burundi is becoming more and more complicated. Many Burundians leave the country and go to neighbouring regions. There are also dramatic situations in the camps in neighbouring territories. Have you planned to help these countries? Do you have any such requests? Travel continues every day. It would be interesting if host countries also found themselves in a difficult situation could be helped. I think they would also deserve special attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u49	I think it's important that we have a clear strategy at the political level, that we don't just watch things change. This period must be used to develop a strategy for regaining democracy in Burundi. I think it is particularly important that, in collaboration with the operators on the ground, with the political authorities, through indirect cooperation projects, we ensure that the strategy is to find a politically acceptable situation. A real strategy must be put in place and the Burundian authorities must be informed: what will be the next steps? Let the Burundian authorities know clearly what to expect in the event of a negative outcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u50	In relation to this, the newspaper De Morgen published an interview with the Burundian Minister of Foreign Affairs, who said that he was surprised by the decision, that he had not seen this coming. This is a bit surprising because all communications have taken place properly and we are trying to have a dialogue. There is no will to reach an escalation of the situation. It takes two to talk at the table and preferably, more. In response to Mr Crusnière, even if he is no longer there, allowances are made to WFP, UNHCR, etc. making efforts for refugees in other countries, including Rwanda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u51	Minister, in your policy letter you state, on the one hand, that you want to use university development cooperation through the grant and traineeship programmes to strengthen the capacity of partner countries. On the other hand, the budget for university development cooperation will decrease from 2017. The universities indicate that the reduction in the budget will require additional resources because they will end their cooperation in a number of countries in the long term and will therefore have to develop new networks and seek new partners. University development cooperation in fragile situations, on which the emphasis is nevertheless placed, is not very evident, as these countries are very often not fully associated at institutional level with the standards and values that our universities put at the forefront. How do you reconcile, on the one hand, your policy priority with, on the other hand, the budgetary effort required in this area? Are there opportunities to support university exit programmes? How do you see the possible race for the most preferred candidates, especially in those fragile states, where we can imagine something?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u52	You do not really need to see incoherence between support policies for capacity building in the South through grants and internships and reducing from ten to two basic budget allocations. This is more about simplification. In line with the recommendations of the OECD DAC, aid concentration and efficiency is also chosen here. VLIR and ARES offer a unique programme with two new benefits: firstly, a flexible management of the balances of the various interventions for the same programme; and secondly, a better predictability of aid through a five-year budgetary commitment. The latter is repeatedly requested by the partner institutions of university cooperation. Better management of the remaining balances will partially reduce budgetary efforts. Moreover, the ANGS will postpone the effort from 2015 to 2017, so that sufficient time is available to prepare. In six countries, Algeria, South Africa, Vietnam, Bolivia, Peru and Ecuador, government cooperation is being reduced. These countries do not belong to the list of least developed countries. At the moment, Belgian Development Cooperation is setting up an exit strategy in order to preserve the achievements already achieved. I would like to point out that non-governmental development organisations can choose to remain active in the exit partner countries. They can remain active in a number of countries which do not necessarily correspond to the partner countries for governmental cooperation. In order to avoid as far as possible adverse effects of geographical spread in achieving ambitious targets, the ANGS was asked to limit itself to 33 countries that they themselves can choose. The fact that the ANGS programmes support exit countries allows a gradual transition to other relationships. The limitation to 33 countries also applies to university cooperation. You're asking me if that'll be some kind of race for the most preferred candidates. So far, nothing has been decided on this. First of all, the Belgian Development Cooperation Act needs to be amended. There is no legal basis for the calls for proposals today. The right of initiative of non-governmental cooperation actors is essential and guarantees a targeted approach adapted to local realities. It is for the actors to propose realistic programmes to the Minister, taking into account their own capacities and the local situation and needs. They shall ensure that their programmes meet the necessary conditions before they start. In order to be approved, a programme should be realistic and subscribe in the common context and analyses carried out by the relevant development actors present in a particular country. The choice of partner countries is currently being discussed by ANGS. I hope that they will soon propose a list of 33 countries or less.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic251x.u53	Questions Nos 5592 and 5593 by Mr De Vriendt are converted into written questions. Questions Nos 5287 and 5853 by Mrs Lijnen are also converted into written questions, as are Questions Nos 4858, 5868, 6539 and 6543 by Mrs Van Hoof.
