ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u1	Madam President, Minister, any operator in the food chain who carries out at least one activity within the competence of the Federal Food Chain Safety Agency must pay a contribution in the form of an annual levy. This levy may be reduced by 75% if all activities are covered by a validated auto-checking system, the year following the establishment year of the establishment unit. An Iandbouwbedrijf therefore receives a discount, or bonus, on its annual fee. The reason is that due to this validation much less checks have to be carried out by the BFSA. The BFSA wants as many companies as possible to have a certified self-checking system. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, can you give me recent figures on the percentage of construction companies that do not yet have a certified auto-control system? Secondly, what is the state of play regarding the business plan for the BFSA for 2015? Thirdly, I have read in your policy statement that you will be promoting auto-checking through guides. How will you make this attractive to the construction sector? Fourthly, is there any willingness to grant Iandbouwbedrijfs that comply with a certified autocontrol system a full exemption from the annual charge to the BFSA? Fifth, how do costs and benefits relate to the BFSA if the entire Iandbouw sector is in possession of a certified control system?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u2	Madam President, Ms Gantois, on 30 November 2014, a fully validated self-checking system was available to 46 percent of the units in the primary production sector. It concerns the sectors with the most validations. Also for the next Business Plan 2015-2018, the BFSA wants to continue to encourage the certification of self-checking and continue the bonus system. The equivalence of the commercial Vegaplan Standard for primary plant production with the auto-control guide for that sector and the free provision of the guide for the farm dairy are two recent initiatives taken in close cooperation with the sector to further reduce the threshold for validation. One of the actions to improve the ease of use of the guides is the introduction of the quick start sheet and the registration forms. The purpose of this sheet is to give operators quick access to basic information. During the revision of the primary production guide, provided for in the course of 2015, those documents will be integrated into the guide. A full exemption is currently not provided for in the budget. It is indeed one of the possible options to support the validation of car control systems, but taking into account the savings measures, that is a difficult map. Companies with a fully validated autochecking system throughout the whole year, pay a bonus charge in the following year. The amount of a charge without a bonus is four times higher than a charge with a bonus, or about 200 euros compared to about 50 euros. The estimated amount of revenue from primary production levies is around EUR 5 200 000. Should the entire agricultural sector have a fully validated self-checking system, this revenue would only be EUR 1 907 000. On the other hand, checks in the agricultural sector will generally fall to once every 12 years, compared with once every 8 years for a person who does not have a certified auto-control system. However, account must be taken of the fact that during that period the farmer receives regular visits from an auditor regarding the maintenance of the validation of his auto-checking system.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u3	I understand that you are taking measures to push through the self-checking process and will therefore promote this system to make it more attractive to the agricultural sector. Farms that comply with a full car control system must be monitored permanently, but much less so than anyone who does not have that system. Rewarding is still the best way to get something. I hope that the measures will have effect, that we will have as few controls as possible and as many companies as possible that fully comply with the system.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u4	The next item on the agenda is Question No 997 by Mrs Smaers, on the control of the BFSA over companies. However, Mrs Smaers is not present at the moment. If she does not show up before the end of the sitting, her question will become without object. The next point is Mrs Van Camp's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u5	Madam President, Minister, EU Regulation 576/2013 requires pet animals to be vaccinated against rabies and not more than 12 weeks. It will then take another three weeks for this to be carried out. In practice, this means that puppies can only be exported at 15 weeks, an age much higher than that of puppies purchased in the country. In those 15 weeks, the important period of socialisation will also take place. The aim of the measure to discourage rogue foreign growers is certainly good, but it also affects bona fide growers here. It is often about growers who grow a particular breed and who, in order to keep the variety as pure as possible, export it abroad. This measure will no longer allow this to happen. This is also a problem for police dogs, because they must be able to start their training programme before the age of 15 weeks. Member States may, however, grant an exception for pups less than 12 weeks of age who have not been vaccinated, e.g. if accompanied by the dam. In our country, a KB was filed on the matter. Minister, are you aware that the EU regulation also affects bona fide growers and makes it impossible to carry out their puppies? Will you take measures to protect those good growers in our country, for example by applying for an exception at European level? I understand that this regulation implies that we as a country should not impose additional conditions, but that this could be a solution. A list of countries where rabies is no longer available could be added, for which imports and exports are possible. The problems arise particularly in countries where rabies still exists.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u6	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, first of all I would like to point out that Belgium is one of the countries free of rabies and that this virus, which is also lethal to humans, is still circulating in some countries of the European Union. The European Regulation No............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 998/2003 on the non-commercial movement of pet animals was replaced by European Regulation No. 576/2013 which entered into force on 29 December 2014. This Regulation lays down as a basic rule that, in order to be able to travel to another Member State, pet animals must be vaccinated against rabies and that this vaccination can be administered at the earliest from 12 weeks and must be administered at least 21 days before the movement. Indeed, this Regulation provides for the possibility for Member States to allow a derogation from this general basic rule and therefore to accept pups less than 12 weeks of age who have not been vaccinated against rabies or pups between 12 weeks and 16 weeks of age who have been vaccinated but have not yet been immunised and who are from other Member States, under conditions. Each Member State may decide autonomously whether or not to make use of this option. However, the European Commission's explanation of the all-or-nothing nature of these derogations must be taken into account when granting or refusing to grant any of these derogations. If they are allowed, they should be allowed for all Member States for both commercial and non-commercial traffic. According to my information, a number of Member States which are also free of rabies, including the Netherlands, France, Luxembourg, Germany, the United Kingdom, Ireland and Italy, have decided not to grant derogations. Nor is it allowed to move to these countries with animals which do not comply with the European basic rule on vaccination against rabies. Member States will publish this information on their website as provided for in European legislation. After an analysis and a proposal from my administration, I do not intend at this stage to allow the derogation in question. Trade in pups from other Member States which are not free of rabies increases the risk of the disease being introduced to us. Belgium is free of rabies and wants to remain free of rabies. Our country has never allowed the introduction of non-immunised puppies from countries that are not free of rabies. The admission of an exception that would apply to all European countries, whether free or not, would undermine this policy that has been going on for years. Mr Ben Weyts, Flemish Minister for Animal Welfare, has sent me a letter asking me explicitly not to make use of this derogation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u7	Minister, we are also aware of this. This is indeed in line with our competent Flemish minister. The question is not whether you will allow the complete exception; we agree that it is a useful measure. The question is whether you can raise additional conditions at European level. It's an all-or-nothing story. An exception could be allowed for countries which are rabies-free, which allows the export of puppies between Belgium and the Netherlands, for example. Now those people are stuck with puppies that they can only sell on the Belgian market. Especially for special breeds that is not good for the breed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u8	As Mr Philippe Goffin is not present, his question No 1233 will become moot unless he arrives before the end of our work. The attached questions Nos. 1293 and 1889 of Mr. Richard Miller are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u9	Minister, according to the Ukrainian pig industry, several cases of the highly contagious and extremely deadly porcine epidemic diarrhea virus, the PED virus, were recorded in spring 2014. On average, such outbreaks last four to seven weeks in Ukraine and kill 78 piglets per 100 sows. Since November 2014, there has been an accelerated spread of the PED virus. PED expert John Carr warned earlier about the risk of a European outbreak. Not only pigs can carry the disease, but there is also a risk of infection through clothing from travellers or lorries. That has happened, because at the end of January a first case of the virus was discovered in our country in the south of the province of Hainaut. Two new cases were reported last week. The disease is believed to have been brought to the pig farm by an infected means of transport, although it is likely to be a mild variant. When the United States was hit by that virus in 2013, the Canadian pig industry invested heavily in far-reaching cooperation across the sector in order to detect the virus as quickly as possible and to draw up an efficient contingency plan. That was an effective approach, as the disease could be eradicated quickly. We believe it is useful and even necessary to take preventive measures in our country too. Every operator in the pig sector must assume his or her responsibilities, and to this end an accompanying framework at federal and European level is indispensable. Minister, has an estimate been made of the potential impact of the PED virus on the pig sector in our country? If so, what are the results? If not, are you going to? Have preventive measures already been taken or have an initiative been taken on a contingency plan? I understand that there is no notification at the moment. Could you give me more information on that? Have you consulted your colleagues at European level, or are such consultations on your agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u10	Mrs Gantois, that is an actual question, given my recent visit to a pig farm, together with the EU Commissioner. No precise evaluation was carried out on the possible impact of the virus on the Belgian sector of pig farms. However, if a comparison is made with the epidemic in the United States, the introduction of a high virulent strain of a virus of porcine epidemic diarrhea in a Belgian pig population could lead to significant losses, mainly due to the high mortality rate of affected piglets. It is an economic disease with no impact on public health, such as Aujeszky's disease. In such cases, a control programme shall only be set up if the sector is asking party or if there are international obligations, which is not the case for the time being. Since the 1990s, preventive structural measures for infrastructure and installation conditions, as well as biosecurity measures and monitoring measures have been applied to all pig herds. The pigs sector and veterinarians are regularly reminded by the BFSA of the importance of the biosecurity measures. The national and international evolution of the disease is monitored by the BFSA and, together with the partners concerned, information is exchanged between laboratories, representatives of the sector and veterinarians. A first prevalence study was conducted in 2014 and showed that the pig population in Belgium was not exposed to the virus. However, some cases have recently been demonstrated in private laboratories. The disease is not on any list of diseases subject to reporting at national and international level and the sector is currently not in favour of reporting the disease or setting up a specific programme. In particular, it is a good application of the biosecurity measures, which can at present prevent introduction into plants. Since the disease spread to the United States, discussions have taken place at European level, in the standing committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed. The measures taken at European level include restrictions on imports of live pigs and blood products from pigs from infected countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u11	Minister, I understand that reporting is not directly concerned and that no specific measures have yet been imposed on infected farms. However, I would ask you to be very alert. Loss due to the aggressive variant may amount to 207 euros per female animal or 6.50 euros per meat pig place. Since the pig sector is already in crisis, we can miss an epidemic like the proverbial plague.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u12	Mr Lachaert is not coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u13	Minister, the Flemish Government, as you know, has a draft note ready for the OCMW administration to be incorporated into the municipal administration in 2019. In this way, Flanders not only focuses on improving the accessibility of services and the maximum integration of local social policy with the other policy areas, but also on increasing the efficiency of local government. It is not insignificant in the plan that the social files remain dealt with separately by a special committee that will maintain the tailor-made and privacy characteristic of the OCMW work. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to adapt this in the federal OCMW legislation. The coalition agreement clearly states that the government will work on it so that a legal framework can be created to enable the integration of the OMCW. For the sake of clarity, it is by no means the intention of the Flemish Government to touch on the current legal remit for social services and integration. During last week's plenary session, you already received a question from Mr Lachaert. You replied at the time that you had to wait for a legal advice to come in at the end of last week. You should normally have that in your possession by now. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. How's the legal advice coming along? What exactly are you going to do to make the necessary adjustments to the legislation? Not insignificant, what's your timing? As you know, the draft note of the Flemish Government is now ready and a timing is set. It is important that local authorities have sufficient time to register.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u14	Minister, as my colleague has just said, the government agreement provides for the federal government to adapt the legal framework to allow for the organic integration of municipal authorities and OMCWs. I would like to add, however, that there are a number of other issues, in particular that it should be ensured that the current tasks of the OMCW in relation to social services respectful of the privacy of those involved and with the necessary guarantees regarding the professionalism of the service. That's all there is to it. At a previous committee meeting, reference was made to the Special Law of 8 August 1980 defining the powers between the authorities, which raises the question of what type of legislative amendment will be necessary. Some, such as the VVSG, refer to the law on the introduction of the Social Insurance Charter, in which the OCMW is explicitly designated as an institution of social security. They follow the reasoning that a majority other than a simple majority is required to amend the law if that power is to be regionalised. That is one of the possible reasonings. You said, however, that you would seek legal advice on this matter. I am very curious whether you have already received this and what its content is. I wonder whether this will clarify the way in which this should be regulated by law, by which majority, in order to meet what is in the coalition agreement. How will you provide the necessary guarantees, as agreed in the coalition agreement? How will you legally anchor this so that the current tasks of the OCMW in relation to social services and professionalism will be ensured by a federal framework even after integration of the municipalities and the OCMW?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u15	Minister, I would like to join those questions. In the direction you intend to give to your policies, you talked about merging the CPAS with the Social Affairs échevinats. Mr Jambon also spoke of this when he explained his residual policies to us, pending the effective transfer of policies in large cities. I would have liked to know what the objectives are and what criteria are used for this integration. I would also like to know how you will guarantee the independence of the CPAS to ensure that citizens are given the rights to which they can claim without interference due to the political colour, the ambitions of the commune or the budgetary problems of the commune. How will you guarantee this independence and respect for these rights? Do you intend to organise integration policies and their financing according to mergers and therefore make these mergers mandatory without really saying so? Or will you respect what the Regions and the municipalities will decide so that there is no different treatment?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I have not yet received the opinion of my administration on the necessary legislative changes to integrate the OMCWs into the municipalities. I'm sorry. I understand, of course, that both you and the OMCW members would like to be clear quickly, but you will also understand that once I have received the advice of my administration, I will also take a moment to analyse the opinion. After all, it is about a fundamental change of law for the OCMWFs. The aim of this amendment, from the federal point of view, is to remove the barriers in the legislation that make it impossible to integrate the OCMW into the municipality at the moment. Both the Flemish Government and the Walloon Government intend to introduce such a merger on a voluntary basis in one case. It is up to the regions that are responsible for the administrative organisation of the OMCWs to define the criteria for integration and to build up the necessary guarantees. As far as timing is concerned, I would like to remind you that I will set it in consultation with the government and Parliament according to the steps to be taken. An amendment to Article 2 of the Organic Law is in any case necessary. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the implications for the special law of 8 August 1980, if any, still need to be examined. I have provisional analyses here which differ in this respect. I have also gone through the concept note of the Flemish government, which, if I am not mistaken, wishes to obtain the agreement of the federal government and the minister responsible for adapting federal regulations for 2015. I will therefore respect this timing, but as you will observe, the matter is delicate. It is a fundamental law. We intend – and this is reflected in the government agreement – to respect the intentions of the Regions. Later, probably on the basis of the declaration of the end of the current legislature and the subsequent federal legislature, it will be necessary to adapt the scheme, if necessary, to reflect the regulatory change. The latter will be adapted in time to enable the Regions to do what they want in terms of organisation. That is the meaning, I believe, of the functioning of a successful federal state. I fully understand the questions of the members of this committee and of Parliament. As soon as my administration has sufficiently validated studies, I will allow myself to give you a small sign, so as to return to you to answer and share this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u17	Mr Minister, it is perhaps better if we deal with this question again when you have received the legal advice. If I understand correctly, you do agree with the timing proposed by the Flemish Government. I'm sure you can study on this, but not too long, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. However, can you clarify something? Article 2 must be amended, that goes without saying. But you also say that there may be a need for a change of law because of the implications. To this end, you refer again to the special law for the reform of the institutions. Can I understand from that that, in the assumption that this would be necessary, could not be arranged during this term of office, if that were the legal advice?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u19	According to the information I have received, we must examine the implications of the special law. We need to investigate the link, no more, no less.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u20	I want to make this clear. That would mean that we could no longer regulate this legally in this legislature. I understand that, don't I?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u21	Perhaps Mr Vercamer's question is: does it take a French-speaking majority and a Flemish majority to form a majority able to vote for a special change of law? This question then has its full meaning under this legislature. That's how I understand your question. Perhaps the minister doesn't want to answer that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u22	I only replied that I wanted to consider a possible change. No more, no less.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u23	As for me, there is something that disturbs me in your answer, minister. It is true that there are regional competences in their organisation and the decision they will make about a merger or not. However, respect for the granting of rights to the citizen, regardless of the political orientation of a municipality, is to be preserved; in my view, this competence is federal and not regional. Indeed, they are rights to social assistance, to social integration, to income from integration, to the intervention of the CPAS in these provisions. In my view, it is up to you to guarantee them and to establish the criteria that the federal authority wants to uphold and preserve, even if there is an integration of the policies of the CPAS into the Social Affairs échevinats. You cannot decree that the Regions must themselves determine the criteria to be met.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u24	I'd just like to add a word. From the statements I have read, both from Mrs Homans and from the competent minister in the Walloon government, it follows that this dimension of preserving the remoteness, through the social decision of the political perimeter, of various guarantees of the independence of the decision taken on social assistance, is also a priority of the regional authorities concerned. We will have the opportunity in the consultations to discuss these elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u25	Minister, I will certainly be attentive to that. In addition to the declarations, account must be taken of the facts and judgments sometimes made as to whether or not a person is entitled to aid.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u26	I would point out that Question No 1233 by Mr Philippe Goffin, to which I referred earlier, is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u27	Minister, decided by the Di Rupo government and further strengthened by your government as far as young people are concerned, the time limit on integration allowances has begun to produce its effects since 1 January. The federal government has budgeted €64 million to help CPAS cope with the consequences of the exclusions of beneficiaries from the integration internship. Your press release on this issue stated that this measure should reassure the municipalists and presidents of CPAS, as cities alone should not bear all the additional costs of federal measures to exclude the unemployed. According to ONEM, these exclusion measures cover more than 30 000 people, mainly under the age of 30, but not only. About half of the excluded will be eligible for social integration income from their municipality's CPAS. But others, who are not eligible for RIS, could also seek social assistance. Hence the significant additional costs for CPAS. In the discussions on the House's general budget, you were certainly reassuring as you said: "A budget is already planned for the additional costs in 2015... these are not optional appropriations. The granting of social integration income, even in line with these developments, remains a legal obligation. Should the budgeted amounts prove insufficient, additional resources will be requested in the course of budgetary control." You went on to say that "the government agreement provides that these additional costs for CPAS would be offset by an increase in the reimbursement percentage of 3% in addition to the additional 5% reimbursement already decided by the previous government, the Di Rupo government". You have drawn the attention of the members of the committee to "the budgetary consequences of the 6th reform of the State: contracts Article 60, measures Activa, etc. The budgetary evaluation of these powers results in EUR 143 million. A significant part of the savings is therefore due to the transfer of skills." Of course, I cannot help but say how much these statements confirm the political analysis made by my party of the 6th reform of the State. Thank you, Minister, for the clarifications that you would like to give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u28	Dear Mrs Caprasse, thank you for your question. I will also reply to your colleague's question. You're a thousand times right. This is an extremely important topical issue, which I would like to mention first of all in terms of the human dimension, since it concerns socio-professional integration. As I have had the opportunity to stress in a number of debates, and regardless of your legitimate questions, there is the question of the way of working life, the assistance and the support that can be given to the persons concerned, whether they are covered by the ONEM – in the case of integration allowances – or by the CPAS, or whether they are not beneficiaries of any of these aids, provided that they are always in search of employment, training or a process of occupational integration. It's extremely important to me. Moreover, I intend to mention these elements at the next interdepartmental conferences with my regional counterparts in charge of socio-professional integration. We will also address articles 60 and 61, which are now regionalized. We will also have the opportunity to discuss several cascading issues related to the status of these individuals. Similarly, the financial consequences – not only for them, but also for the authorities – will be the focus of our attention. I have seen this, in particular, thanks to the analysis of Mr Defeyt, President of the CPAS de Namur. The services of the Social Integration FPS are working very hard on this issue. To answer your questions more precisely, I would like to point out that the current difficulty is that we have obtained figures with a very varying scale. Thus, the Forem and Actiris differ from those of the FGTB and other trade union interlocutors, sometimes for legitimate reasons – the provisions that have changed themselves – but sometimes also without any connection to the evolution of the regulatory provisions. The ONEM confirms to me the following figures: 16,900 people are affected by the measure we are talking about - the exclusion measure as a result of the benefit for a period of three years, with the exception of integration allowances. In addition, approximately 3,000 more people who arrived on the labour market later will be excluded in the course of 2015. These figures were confirmed to me just 15 days ago. I'll round them up, if you don't mind, to 20,000 people. I am talking about the action taken by Mr Di Rupo's government. In addition, there are two provisions which still need to be translated into legislation, which are included in the Government's programme and which concern the exclusion of young people who have not completed their secondary or equivalent education before 21 years of age from the benefit of integration benefits; and the exclusion of persons who would first apply for an integration allowance after reaching the age of 25. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the latter two provisions are not yet in force. They are still to be decided by the government, and their possible entry into force has been set for September 2015. As far as the figures validated by the administration are concerned, we will be able to have the probable, relatively tight figures next week from the five largest cities in the country. There is a specific follow-up programme with the five major cities, which alone account for almost half of the country's beneficiaries. In the government agreement and in the budgetary provisions, the necessary funds were provided so as not to have a direct impact on the management of CPAS. It is known that CPAS, on average, receive a refund of integration income ranging from 55 to 80 per cent, with the exception of 100 per cent under the Lejeune Act. Mrs Maggie De Block, previously, had increased this support by 5%. From the moment the figures are reasonably validated, my intention is to propose to the government the adjustment of the provisions by an increase in the percentage of intervention to the benefit of the CPAS, for all the integration income granted, of the order of 3%, with possibly additional intervention per file. This amounts to a total of 19,950,800 euros, to be very precise, specifically intended for the compensation of the part of the social integration income that the CPAS should assume. If I add the federal share anyway, we're just over $64 million. As soon as all these figures are validated, we will be able to come with these proposals for granting the amounts concerned. In addition, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, at last week's consultation committee with the regional and community federated entities, they expressed the wish to be informed of how the federal government will exercise this compensation commitment. The federal government is committed to informing federated entities. I have also promised to have a consultation with all the federations of the country - the date is scheduled - to discuss these various elements. Once the government has set the regulatory framework for the two measures taken – even if their impact will be less in terms of people affected by the scheme – in the current government agreement, I may have the same precise estimates. I stress the need to adapt support schemes for employment promotion and occupational integration to persons seeking employment who are not beneficiaries of an integration allowance or who are excluded from unemployment or who are not beneficiaries of integration income or who are partially beneficiaries of integration income or who are beneficiaries of integration income. The 6th reform of the state went through that. Arrangements have been made or will be made by the two successive Governments. The aim is also to maximise the effective nature of the support for the benefit of the persons concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u29	Minister, thank you for all these explanations. I hope that we will be able to dispose, relatively quickly, of a correct state of affairs. Some people find themselves in completely unacceptable situations. Deficiencies should not be perceived in this system. We rely on you to develop all this as quickly as possible because the months pass and, increasingly, people are in complicated financial situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u30	Madam Chair, Mr. President, following the publication of the results of the AFSCA controls in star restaurants, it is now announced that the citizen will be able to consult, on the AFSCA website, the results of the analyses translated by the allocation of a number of plates ranging from zero to four. Minister, could you give me more information on the arrangements put in place? Have the sectors concerned been consulted in this regard? What are the AFSCA's publishing obligations? If, after a negative assessment by the AFSCA, the owner of an establishment gets in order, will a rectification of the publicly available publication be made?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, your question is related to a topical question which was asked to me more or less on the same subject last week, and also in connection with information published in the press, in particular, in the north of the country. Let me therefore take stock of this matter here. To supplement the information that has been disseminated, I would like to point out that, previously, the position of the AFSCA was that the inspection results should remain confidential because they were linked to personal data. A ruling of the Council of State at the end of 2013 clearly redefined the context and forced the AFSCA to reconsider its position. The Commission has therefore sought, in collaboration with the relevant sectoral organisations, to develop a clearer but also more user-friendly system for consumers, without stigmatizing operators. The difficulty lay in ensuring transparency, which was a right, while communicating information in an understandable context and framework, without stigmatizing operators in advance. AFSCA inspections are carried out on the basis of standardized checklists. These allow the checks to be carried out in a reasonably harmonised and transparent manner. But these are very technical documents developed in order to be able to carry out an inspection in an efficient way, with the aim of working in consultation with the operators. These checklists are difficult to interpret for the general public or to understand for uninitiated people; I urge you to read them. AFSCA has therefore opted for an alternative method of publishing results in the business to consumer sector, thus also Horeca. This method is based on an overall evaluation system that reflects the overall result, in a simple way, as some guides do. It does not focus on a particular element, but we see the image through various assessments of control elements, in the form of a guide, so as to be perfectly understandable to the general public while remaining true to reality. The score is then available on the website and not only in the light of the basic inspections, but also in view of the seriousness of the infringements found, and also the result of the re-checks; finding themselves in breach and quickly correcting themselves will not be treated as being in long-term infringement situations. This system was developed in close consultation with the sectors, traders and other stakeholders in the Advisory Committee, which I recently met. As a result, AFSCA has opted for a durable solution and not just for the publication of inspection results. The 80,000 operators concerned received a letter in autumn 2014 to explain the new system, which will enter into force by June. However, in order to comply fully with the decision of the Council of State, the AFSCA also provided that reports of official inspections and analyses carried out by all operators in the framework of its control plan could also be requested. This is therefore a second measure. To do so, the applicant must submit his request via a form available on the Agency's website. This applicant is then invited to the administration of the AFSCA. It can itself obtain the results in the database and receive a copy of them. In summary, effectiveness, lack of stigma and full reporting. This second system, which is simpler to develop, is already in place. The timing will therefore be different between the two parts of the procedure. As a result, the AFSCA fully complies with the administrative advertising obligations. The series of articles suggesting that the AFSCA did not ensure adequate follow-up of offenders does not seem to me to be consistent with reality. Indeed, an inspection is considered favourable or unfavourable on the basis of the findings contained in the checklist; each operator receives the possibility to make a comment – a normal right of reaction attributed to any controlled person – on the findings that appeared after the inspection was carried out. He also has the right to include it in the official inspection report. Measures are always linked to an unfavourable inspection. Possible measures are either a warning, a report with a proposed administrative fine, a temporary closure, the withdrawal of the authorisation or the seizure of the products. I have some encrypted data for you. Temporary results show that 14,201 inspections were carried out in the Horeca in 2014. As a result of these inspections, 5,154 warnings were given, sometimes for minor things, sometimes for more significant things. There were 1,161 minutes, 248 seizures and 31 temporary closures. I do not think we can say that there is no follow-up. On the contrary, you observe it through these figures: temporary closures in the horeca service are always the result of significant hygiene violations. In the case of an unfavourable inspection, the operator shall always be followed until the non-compliant points have been sufficiently corrected. These follow-up reports are not only included in the official report of the initial inspection. As a result, I do not believe that the AFSCA has any policy of laissez-faire, laissez-faire, and proper application of the legislation in force. I must tell you that I also have a lot of testimony in the other direction, where I am told that the AFSCA would do too much in relation to a number of controls, but its mission is carried out very scrupulously, even if there are always spaces for improvement imaginable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u32	I have nothing to add, Madam President. The minister has been thorough and I thank him for his response.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u33	Madam President, Minister, the agricultural sector in the province of Luxembourg, by virtue of its proximity to the Grand Duchy, is in a special situation. Some land or meadows are used by farmers in the Grand Duchy. In this context, there is a cross-border package authorisation which includes a precise list of the animals concerned, the identification and location of the pastures concerned and the dates of movement. The federal authority, AFSCA, is then likely to control Luxembourg cattle on Belgian territory. Mr Minister, do you confirm the information that farmers in the Grand Duchy are exploiting Belgian grasslands to put their livestock there? Is the cross-border package I have just mentioned complete? Are there other elements to be made known in this situation? Is AFSCA required to regularly control Luxembourg cattle? Are you aware of any difficulties encountered, of any deficiencies identified in the subject that we are dealing with?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u34	Madam Member, since 1990, there has been an agreement in the Benelux, which we are currently prestigating, on border package matters. It provides for the grazing of cattle from a municipality bordering the national border on grasslands situated in a municipality bordering the national border of a neighbouring country; livestock do not know the borders. The package is available during the grazing season from March 15 to November 30 of the current calendar year. This agreement was renewed in 2012. An almost similar agreement was also concluded between Belgium and France. All the conditions and rules relating to the package are set out in a joint decision of the Benelux authorities. AFSCA communicated these rules to Belgian farmers by means of a circular. AFSCA shall not carry out field checks in the framework of the package as it complies with the rules and principles of Directive 64/432/EEC. The principle is that the Member State hosting the animals shall a priori trust the Member State of origin when the latter offers it the agreed guarantees. If a doubt arises in the head of a Belgian breeder, he may inquire with his UPC or, if necessary, denounce the situation. In this case, a specific control may be organised by the AFSCA. In 2012, following the regulated fight against IBR, or infectious bovine rhinotracheitis, additional conditions were also incorporated into the decision in order to protect Belgian cattle. All the health conditions of the holdings and animals concerned shall be checked by the health authority of the country of origin, which shall then give the breeder the authorisation for the package and inform the health authority of the country of destination. This is therefore an additional link between the two health authorities concerned. Thanks to the good relations within the Benelux and between the Belgian and Luxembourg veterinary services, at this stage Belgium has not experienced any problems in implementing this decision. I do not hide from you that I met my Luxembourg colleague in charge of agriculture a few days ago. We have discussed together the various elements of validation of health policy and the links between neighbouring territories so that there is no difficulty in this respect. To date, I have not been identified with any of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u35	Minister, thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer. The origin of my question was a media source saying that the Luxembourg and Belgian breeders were not equal. You reassured me on this point. This package does exist. There are contacts between the different countries and if a problem were to arise, you would be informed quickly. I am quite reassured by your answer and by the fact that farmers are equal when they put livestock in our meadows in the province of Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u36	Madam President, Minister, the IBR, Infectious Bovine Rhinotracheitis, in French Rhinotracheitis Infectious Bovine, is a disease that manifests itself through epidemics of respiratory tract infection. In infected animals, this virus is also responsible for abortion and infertility. In any case, this disease has a negative impact on animal production and the fight against RBI is essential for our farmers, especially since Belgium is the second largest European country exporting live cattle. However, I am concerned about a concrete situation in the commercial relations between two farmers, one Belgian and the other French. When the Belgian breeder becomes the owner of a French beast, even though the breeding from which it originates is recognised as free of IBR by the French authorities and is considered equivalent I4 in Belgium, quarantine is compulsory on the French holding. This quarantine will be followed by a second quarantine on arrival on the Belgian holding. However, in an article published by the ASBL ARSIA in 2010 entitled The Update on the IBR - A Practical Manual for Livestock Producers, I read that Belgium exports mainly to the Netherlands and France, two countries in a much more favourable IBR epidemiological situation than ours, thanks mainly to the establishment of a plan of struggle. This publication dates back to 2010 and, at the time, stated that our neighbours were far more advanced than we were in the fight against the IBR. All Northern European countries have implemented programmes to combat IBR for more than ten years. Some are already free (Denmark, Sweden, Finland, etc.).). Others are in compulsory control and in the final phase of eradication (France, Germany). Minister, are the findings made almost five years ago still relevant? I would have liked to hear from you about a possible equivalence between the Belgian statute in the fight against the IBR and those of our neighbouring countries. What justifies the double quarantine currently required when buying a beast on French territory on an IBR-free holding, which is equivalent to our I4 status? Is it envisaged to coordinate national actions to combat the IBR in order to facilitate trade between herders in the Greater Region? Have you made contact with your French and Dutch counterparts in this context? I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, in practice, livestock purchased in France must be transported individually to Belgium. This has a real additional transport cost. If you buy two animals from different farms for farming and these have to be transported alone and in two different trucks, the cost is significant. It is a whole market for the purchase and sale of livestock that is likely to suffer. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to hear from you on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u37	Member, this question is a testament to your in-depth knowledge of this issue. You are aware that in 2010, only a few countries implemented a regulated fight against IBR (Rhinotracheitis Infectious Bovine). Voluntary or local programmes had been in place in several countries, including Belgium, since 2006. Because of the numerous direct or indirect damage that the IBR is causing to cattle farms, the breeders have deliberately chosen to fight this disease. They have invested and still invest a great deal of time and energy, as well as financial resources to avoid significant losses. Since 2012, Belgium has had a national control programme, approved by the Commission at the end of 2014. Belgium thus obtained an IBR status, referred to as Article 9, in accordance with Commission Decision 2458 on the IBR. This IBR status provides the Member State which obtained it with additional guarantees on the importation of bovine animals in order to protect its livestock, and in particular the buying establishment, from the potential introduction of this disease. This status therefore allows Belgian farmers to be better protected, which I think is very important in view of the efforts they have made and the potential risks involved. Unlike us, neither France nor the Netherlands currently have an approved official control programme. It is only in the case of trade between Member States with the same RBI status that trade can be made without restriction. In all other cases, trade restrictions are put in place by Europe in order to provide the necessary protection to the Member State free of disease or having a programme validated by the European authorities. Trade from Member States without a control programme to Member States with IBR status may be conditioned by quarantine in the country of origin, which is not simple. In Belgium, for farms with status I3 and I4, isolation of the bovine animals purchased is still planned, during which time the animals purchased are subject to analysis. At the request of the sector, Belgium has contacted the French, Luxembourg and Dutch authorities in order to clarify these new conditions applicable to trade in live bovine animals which are not without consequences in terms of trade and costs for those involved in the trade chain. The Intra-Community Trade Directive requires animal transporters to ensure that transported animals cannot come into contact with animals of lower health status. This measure also applies to the IBR, which you noted. I intend to meet my colleague, Mr Le Foll, French Minister for Agriculture, very soon to discuss with him the situation in France, in order to see how I can possibly reconcile strict compliance with the European directive, the preservation of our status against all risks and economic pragmatism. It's not easy, but I think workspaces are exploitable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u38	I thank the minister for the completeness of his response. Progress has already been made and we must continue in this direction. I will come back through a written question in a month to see if you have had any contact with your French counterpart. We really want progress. If the statutes are similar or even better in France than at home, it is desirable that there be one of the two quarantine periods, but not both. This could be a more flexible proposal. Transportation could take place if there is a livestock truck that does not have a lower status. You always have to try to find excellence. Some leads can be found in compliance with the European Directive. On the ground, we must try to find pragmatic solutions, in agreement with this important fight against the IBR, so that these trades can continue. You know, like me, that at the moment, in addition to the predominant blue-white (BBB) race, there is diversification with certain French races and sometimes even a cross between BBB and French races. These trades are important for an entire economy and an entire sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u39	Minister, this issue was raised during the discussions on your policy brief and policy brief. You are announcing that you want to expand the obligation to enter into an individualized project contract to obtain the right to social integration income, beyond those already subject to it today, i.e. those under the age of 25 and those without housing. The conclusion of a contract requires the parties to be on an equal footing when negotiating the agreement. However, we know that in the case we are dealing with, we either agree to a contract or we lose a right. This therefore requires a real reflection on the social assistance that we want to provide. According to my information, there has been no evaluation of the schemes since the introduction of these individual project contracts. If my information is incorrect and such an assessment has taken place, please let me know. If not, should this not be done before the obligation is extended? You are announcing a consultation with the sector. Who is the "sector" and what are the partners with which to work together? Beyond the representatives of the CPAS, it would be interesting to include social workers who, in general, work with the poorest and those who are excluded from the various aid systems on which they depend. I am thinking of some people who do not have the psychological and social opportunity to enter into a contractual relationship.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u40	Madam President, thank you for this unique symposium. As I indicated in my political orientation paper, the individualised social integration project – the so-called PIIS – will be extended to other beneficiaries of the integration of social services in consultation with the sector. In this last term, I mean as many people as possible: not only the federations representing the CPAS, the social workers, but also the voluntary sector and my administration, of course. Since this is a path of training and socio-occupational integration, the aim is to be able to define with the beneficiary a route as clear and positive as possible in order to achieve more autonomy. Last October, my administration organized a symposium on the theme of social activation of CPAS beneficiaries. One of its conclusions was that this project was a good instrument, as it focuses on individualized proximity monitoring and is widely shared with the recipient. However, in discussions with participants, it was pointed out that ISIP is often seen as a cumbersome administrative and managerial tool. I have therefore commissioned a study which is intended to lead to a qualitative analysis. It must deal with the following aspects. First, it needs to develop an inventory of opportunities for extending ISIP to other beneficiaries. Secondly, it must examine its use in the context of a policy of social activation – since, as you know, the sixth reform of the state has gone through it. It is therefore necessary to link this federal competence with that of the Regions concerning socio-professional activation – these two subjects are, of course, often very close. In addition, it must address how ISIP could better respond methodologically to the needs of beneficiaries for social support. It is also intended to examine how ISIP could better measure, in the context of monitoring, the evolution of beneficiaries. It is also a question of how it could respond to the need for administrative simplification. The task of this study is also to draw up proposals for the implementation of a "Community Service" ISIP, taking into account the original philosophy of the 2002 Act, if I am not mistaken. Finally, the aim is to share a number of good practices. Even if this is provisional information at this stage, I intend to allocate several means through the extension of the ISIP. Before I can, if necessary, submit this proposal in consultation, I must have at my disposal all the elements of the study which I have just described to you the main parameters. I will allow myself to communicate directly and, if you so wish, the proceedings of the colloquium conducted by the departments of my administration, unless you are aware of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answer. I'm obviously interested. I am aware of this colloquium, but if you transmit the proceedings to us, we will be able to publish them on the committee's intranet site in the chapter Social integration. We like to attach the documents which then become references for members of the committee or, more simply, of Parliament. To conclude with the person a life project which includes various elements, including those relating to social and/or socio-professional integration is obviously an invigorating and interesting approach. Where the block hurts is when it becomes a sine qua non for opening access to a right. It is this requirement that characterizes its administrative burden. It is not to negotiate and conclude a project, it is to register it as a requirement to obtain financial assistance. I hear you've asked for studies, you're going to rely on evaluations and consultations. I can only encourage you. It will be interesting to discuss these results. Have you set a timetable for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u42	I hope that some of the means can be linked to the additional deployment of ISIPs. I would like to have the broad guidelines of the reform available for consultation by mid-2015 at the latest.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u43	It can be noted that the consultation with the relevant stakeholders will take place no later than mid-2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u44	Mr Minister, my last question is about this famous professional secrecy of social workers in CPAS, for which you have announced a response in the context of the requirements for the transfer of information from them to social security bodies and to judicial bodies, also in the context of the fight against social fraud. In committee, when we addressed this issue, you mentioned that you wanted to amend article 46 of the Criminal Code and we were dubious about the tool you proposed. In plenary, I asked you about the various avenues I had identified as possible, but each presented its limitations, particularly with regard to the abuse of law, the effectiveness of the tool. You told me that the subject was indeed complex and that it was necessary to investigate before deciding how to proceed. I told you that I would ask you about the objectives actually pursued. Minister, what are the objectives that you pursue by intensifying the transfer of information from CPAS workers? Knowing that professional secrecy has three interests – to protect the privacy of the user, to protect social workers held incommunicado, to protect society as a whole so that everyone can find help without his or her word turning against him or her – what legislative changes do you want to introduce? Is it a matter of amending section 46 of the Code of Criminal Investigation? An amendment to article 458 of the Criminal Code? An amendment to the organic law of CPAS by providing for exceptions to professional secrecy enshrined in articles 36 and 50 of that law? To legally create the possibility for the CPAS to file a complaint? Or article 29 of the Criminal Code? Do you have any idea what tool you intend to use? If so, is he among those I have cited? Are you still at the reflection stage or do you have another way to achieve your goals?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I fully remember your speech and the signals, the attention and the concerns that you wish to express with regard to these enlargements, which must be carefully studied and fixed, so as to prevent them from being counterproductive or from encountering fundamental principles or fundamental principles of social action. With regard to professional secrecy, articles 36 and 50 of the CPAS Organic Act of 8 July 1976 specify that the members of the CPAS Council as well as all other persons who, under the Act, attend meetings of the CPAS, the Permanent Bureau, special committees are bound by professional secrecy, as well as all CPAS staff. In the event of non-compliance with this professional secrecy, the Criminal Code provides for a penalty: Article 458 provides for a prison term of between 8 days and 6 months and a fine of between 100 and 500 euros for the depositaries of professional secrets who have allegedly disclosed them. There are, however, some exceptions, such as testimony in court or before a parliamentary commission of inquiry. As part of the plan to combat social fraud, set out by the previous government, it had been proposed to amend article 46quater of the Code of Criminal Investigation in order to enable members of the CPAS to collaborate with the King's prosecutor without, however, violating article 458 of the Criminal Code. Currently, this article is written in a way that allows the King's prosecutor, in his search for crimes and offences, to request certain information when there are serious prerequisites. In particular, it makes it possible to request a list of bank accounts, safes or financial instruments of which the suspect is or would be the holder. It may also require bank transactions carried out on one or more of these bank accounts, as well as data concerning holders or agents who, for a specified period of time, had or would have had access to such boxes, for example. In order to increase the effectiveness of the fight against social fraud, while respecting professional secrecy, it is envisaged that this article will be supplemented by a point allowing the King's prosecutor to request more widely also the necessary administrative information from, for example, the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises, the tax administration, the Banque-Carrefour de la Sécurité sociale or from the social security institutions in the broad sense, referred in particular to in Article 2, 2nd of the Act of April 1995 on the Charter of the Social Insured. As you have rightly pointed out, this possible extension is a delicate matter which should be handled with the utmost care. An analysis conducted by the SPF Justice is therefore under way to see what elements of extension could meet the objective of enabling a more effective fight against alleged social fraud, where it exists, without prejudice to the indispensability of the elements related to the work carried out by the staff or actors of the CPAS.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u46	Minister, so much the better if you ask for a study. It is indeed a delicate subject. I thought that the investigating judge already had the opportunity to have access to data from social security agencies and agencies when he suspected that a worker or aid seeker was not complying with the legislation. You want the King's attorney to have access to this data. You therefore consider this information which could be concealed or fraudulent in the same way as what happens for bank secrecy. You're not considering any other leads.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u47	That's what's under consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u48	When will we get the results of the study?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u49	We did not indicate in any document that we were locked in a timing. We touch on fundamental principles; we must be certain of what we want to do before we act.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u50	Minister, I will come back to you to see how things evolve with regard to the notices that will be sent to you. That being said, as your request has been addressed to the FPS Justice, will the notice be communicated directly to you or will it be forwarded to the Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u51	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic079x.u52	That means I can question you both!
