ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u1	Madam President, when I passed, I was unable to ask my questions because the minister had to wait ten minutes. Today, our patience has been much longer and I will be happy to question the minister, a matter of courtesy. Between 2010 and 2014, SNCB and Infrabel spent €222 million to renovate existing railway buildings, railway stations, workshops or offices. In your reply in committee, Madam Minister, you announced that during those five years, SNCB itself had spent EUR 101 million in Flanders, EUR 68 million in Brussels and EUR 31 million in Wallonia, a total of EUR 201 million. The southern part of the country was only 15 per cent, while Flanders received 50 per cent of the budgets and Brussels 33 per cent. On the other hand, Infrabel was more generous with Wallonia. Indeed, of the 20 million euros spent between 2010 and 2014 across the country, almost 10 million were spent in Wallonia. Infrabel's other expenditure is EUR 7.7 million in Flanders and EUR 2.9 million in Brussels. Finally, based exclusively on expenditure on new constructions, SNCB paid 37 million in Wallonia over five years for 102 million in Flanders. Without going into the details of the 60-40 allocation key that we must of course take as a whole - which we have all understood well - we can still be surprised that on the only investments related to stations and other buildings, the SNCB Group spends three times more in Flanders than in Wallonia. Nevertheless, minister, I prefer to look at the future rather than the past. As you start to communicate in the press on the subject via local elected MR, I would like to ask you about the future investments of SNCB Group in stations and other buildings. Can you give me details of the investments planned for the next five years (budgeted amounts, timing of investments and sources of funding) for stations and other buildings in the following municipalities that you know well, since they are not too far from your region: Anderlues, Binche, Braine-le-Comte, Beaumont, Chapelle-lez-Herlaimont, Chimay, Ecaussinnes, Erquelinnes, Estinnes, Froidchapelle, Ham-sur-Heur-Nalinnes, La Louvière, Le Roeulx, Lobbes, Manage, Merbes-le-Château, Momignies, Morlanwelz, Seneffe, Sivry-Rance, Soignies and Thuin? I am obviously looking forward to hearing your answer after having waited for you with the President and the other Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Rule 60/40 does not apply separately to stations, buildings, workshops or other railway infrastructure, tracks and catenaries. This rule is applied globally for all three companies in the SNCB Group, namely SNCB Holding, SNCB and Infrabel. It is this method of calculation that allows us to comply, each year, with the 60/40 allocation rule. As far as your request for stations is concerned, I will be able to give you a precise view of the investments in and around each station, as soon as the PPI has been adapted. Furthermore, as I have already had the opportunity to explain to you, we are currently working on the modernisation plan, which will allow us to identify more resources for these investments in a global context of savings.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u3	Madam President, Madam Minister, I thank you for your answer, although it does not contain any figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u4	Madam President, Madam Minister, according to your office, Belgium has introduced a series of railway projects to the European Commission in order to benefit from grants earmarked by Europe for the Member States. A total of 11 projects were prepared by the SNCB Group for a total of approximately EUR 1.1 billion. The level of European intervention in their funding could vary from 20 to 50% depending on their objectives. Although we are well aware that not all projects will be retained after the review, there is no question of missing this appointment. I therefore congratulate, through you, the SNCB Group on having submitted these applications for European grants in time. Minister, on this subject, I would like to ask you a number of questions. Can you give me a detailed account of the 11 projects prepared by the SNCB Group to obtain these grants? What are the objectives and subsidies requested? What is Europe's planned timing? When will we get the positive or negative responses to these grant applications? On what basis could the percentage of financial aid granted by Europe vary? Do you already know when the next European call for rail project grants for the Member States will take place? In this regard, has SNCB already identified any other projects that could use these European grants?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u5	Madam Chair, Mr. Devin, the submission of applications for subsidies ended on March 3, 2015. On that date, the Mobility and Transport FPS was able to validate twenty-two applications for subsidies for the rail sector. Following the validation of the Mobility and Transport FPS, applicants were able to formally submit their application to the European Commission. You have just received a complete list of files concerning Infrabel, SNCB or their subsidiaries. The results of the European Commission's evaluations will be communicated to the Member States in July this year. Projects selected by the Commission will be eligible for co-financing depending on the nature of the projects. Indeed, studies will benefit from a co-financing rate of 50% of eligible costs, while railway works will benefit from a co-financing rate of 20% of eligible costs. However, the co-financing rate for work may be increased to 30% for bottlenecks projects and 40% for cross-border sections projects and actions to enhance railway interoperability. Finally, for ERTMS on-board and land-based deployment projects, the maximum co-financing rate is set at 50% of eligible costs. The next call for projects in the rail sector is expected to be launched by the Commission in October 2015 and close in February 2017. The files that were not selected during the first call can then be reworked and presented to the European Commission during this second call for projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u6	Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u7	Minister, it was on the basis of a technical reason that it was decided to suspend the Thalys Walloon. This is indeed the incompatibility of ETCS systems on track and on board. However, this incompatibility will also have to be set up in Antwerp, which will soon be equipped with ETCS (2.3.0.d).). As a result, Thalys traffic could be interrupted between June and December 2015. This situation highlights the difficulty of adapting the safety requirements assigned to Infrabel with the reality of the railway operators which are its customers. This was also the reason why the previous government had commissioned an independent advisory office to conduct a study on the monitoring of security investments in order to ensure the quality of the design and execution of such projects, the timeliness of such projects and the optimization of the cost-benefit ratio in order to achieve the safety objectives pursued. There was also a question of a transfer of knowledge to the Mobility FPS in order to guarantee these investments in the future. Minister, like the Thalys Wallon, will the Thalys traffic in Antwerp also be suspended? If not, could you detail the reasons that would make it possible to maintain traffic in Antwerp even though it seems impossible on the Walloon dorsal? Could you also inform us of the status of the study commissioned from the independent office? Finally, what is the status of knowledge transfer to the Mobility FPS?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u8	Mr Devin, as you pointed out, the ETCS equipment schedules of the section of the Walloon dorsal near Namur and that of the Antwerp crossing are different. As a reminder, the planning approved by the parliament and the government provided for a launch in April 2015 on the Walloon dorsal (test period from February to the end of March) and in January 2016 for Brussels-Amsterdam (test period from June to December). As a reminder, in December 2014, when Thalys International announced to Infrabel that the equipment of its high-speed trainsets was falling behind substantially, the infrastructure manager had to consider a solution as soon as possible. According to Infrabel, at the time the solution was found, the construction site of the section of the Walloon dorsal was too advanced for it to be still possible to implement without blocking the commissioning of the new ETCS equipment scheduled for April 2015. On the other hand, the same type of equipment on the Antwerp crossing is planned for December 2015. The solution in question can therefore be implemented in several months and thus be implemented for the month of June 2015 in order to allow testing on the site. In December 2015, the problem will be solved because Thalys trains will finally be equipped with the new version of the signalling system. As for the study on ETCS conducted under the auspices of the SPF, I confirm that it is progressing well. An interim report has been prepared and the conclusions of the first phase of the study are expected by June. Knowledge transfer is a later phase.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u9	Madam Chair, I thank the minister for her answer, which highlights a difference in treatment between the two lines.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u10	Madam President, Minister, the punctuality figures from the field surveys of user associations differ greatly from the figures provided by SNCB. Beyond the war of numbers, what interests the user is to see its daily situation really taken into account by the SNCB. The systematic difference between the SNCB Group's communication and the reality on the ground can only lead to frustration and disarray. The collection of delays directly at source, i.e. directly by users, will only increase the gap between SNCB and users. Madam Minister, would it not be time for the SNCB Group to take into account the same parameters, to be much more transparent and to stop using artifice to adorn its statistics of punctuality? Transparency and communication, failing to reduce delays, will nevertheless make it possible to bring the SNCB Group closer to its users, who will therefore feel a little more considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u11	Madam President, dear Mr Devin, punctuality is automatically recorded by Infrabel at fixed measuring points installed on the network. It is expressed as a percentage which refers to the volume of trains arriving on time at their final point of trade, according to the standards of the management contract. A train on time, that's a delay of less than six minutes. According to the terms of their management contract, a number of delays whose causes are external to the activities of SNCB and Infrabel companies, such as cases of force majeure, or which are the result of planned and communicated infrastructure works, may be neutralised. These volumes of delay are therefore not taken into account in assessing the punctuality results of those undertakings. It is in full transparency that these figures are communicated by Infrabel to railway undertakings, stakeholders and train users. For the sake of transparency, Infrabel regularly organizes round tables with these stakeholders in general and user associations in particular, including the most critical associations in this field. Infrabel believes that it is making every possible effort in this context to ensure communication and transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u12	Beyond the position of the SNCB Group, I would have liked to know your opinion, Madam Minister, on transparency and on the effective accounting of delays. Do you, as a minister, fully refer to the management contract, what I can understand?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u13	So far, yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u14	But in the future, do you think that progress can be made in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u15	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u17	Madam Minister, the Eurométropole Lille-Courtrai-Tournai, where I sit as Vice-President of the Mobility and Accessibility Committee, has implemented an action plan to improve cross-border public transport, focusing on the promotion of supply and the increase in the number of passengers and on an increase in supply. Even if we notice that the number of connections per day in this triangle Lille-Courtrai-Tournai remains stable, the transport plan entered into force on 14 December 2014 causes a significant negative impact. One can thus note a significant increase in the length of journeys on lines which were already perceived as relatively slow, the abolition of stops on the Lille-Tournai line or the modification of the timetables on the Tournai-Courtrai line, less favourable to schoolchildren and reducing the possible connections to Mouscron. Such a situation obviously runs counter to the objectives which the Eurométropole has set itself in terms of mobility. Minister, have you ever had contact with the SNCF, the Nord-Pas-de-Calais Region and the European Metropolis of Lille to see to what extent certain adjustments could be made at cross-border level? In addition, would you be in favour of changes that would bring Eurométropole's action plan into line with a common long-term vision? Finally, do you intend to consult with the Eurométropole players for the implementation of the next transport plan planned for 2017?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u18	My colleague, the cross-border offer for Lille has been defined in the SNCB's new transport plan, in line with the national offer and the requirements of SNCF, with which SNCB maintains regular contacts. Thus, between Mouscron and Lille, the cadence has not been changed; between Tournai and Lille, the schedules have been adapted in order to maintain the correspondences coming from lines 94 and 78. As far as the duration of the journeys is concerned, it depends on the stops requested by SNCF and on the reception possibilities at Lille-Flandre station. If the addition of the Froyennes stop last December has an impact on the commercial speed of the relationship, it improves student mobility. From Herseaux, connections are planned between Mouscron and Lille in 19 minutes instead of 10 minutes due to the reorganization of the offer on line 94. The new transport plan was designed for a period of three years. Fundamental adjustments are not scheduled until December 2017. In order to establish this, there will be regular consultation with SNCB's stakeholders. In this context, the Commission has taken note of the action plan of the Eurométropole.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u19	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I will not comment at this stage and will forward your reply to the Eurométropole Mobility and Accessibility Commission for consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u20	Madam President, Minister, a survey conducted between March and May 2014 by the consumer organisation Test-Achats, the results of which have recently been published, shows that 50% of SNCB users are generally dissatisfied with the system of compensation for delays and cancellations of trains. The main criticism of this system seems to be its particularly complex nature in that, in order to make proper use of it, the traveller must keep, in the terms of the organisation, "a true logbook of the delays he is suffering". In the face of this situation, Test-Achats took the initiative to develop the Late train application in order to facilitate the taking of user notes. In addition, in collaboration with TreinTramBus and Shuttles.be, they initiated a petition calling for a simplified compensation procedure in the event of strikes, delays and cancellations. Launched in early December, the petition collected 8,500 signatures, if necessary proof of the low level of satisfaction with the system currently in place. Madam Minister, you will agree with me that travellers who have been injured by train delays and cancellations have the right to be compensated through a simple and practical procedure. Following the petition submitted to you, is there any simplification of the current procedure on the agenda? If so, on what horizon can it be expected to be implemented? Finally, what is your assessment of your meeting with the various commuter associations concerned? What commitments have been made?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u21	Mr Senesael, you will be disappointed by my answer. The simplification of the compensation system is under development and will soon be the subject of a communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u22	It's hard to make it shorter, minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u23	Are you satisfied or disappointed, Mr. Senesael?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u24	I am neither satisfied nor disappointed. It was colourless, insipid, odourless.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u25	Madam Minister, allow me once again to address with you a rather recurring subject in this committee, namely the new SNCB transport plan. You have heard it many times, this new plan is not just happy, on the contrary. Between longer journey times, the elimination of morning and vesperal trains, excessively long connecting times or the numerous delays on the lines, some passengers can simply do more. This is the case for commuters using the train at Lessines station, who were able to see that whenever SNCB decided to review its offer, the train station was becoming less and less attractive. The reason would be that SNCB would base its decisions on station use calculated on the basis of validated journeys. Such an approach can be called into question inasmuch as, by this method, the offer increases for stations already well frequented without consideration being given to the place of residence of travellers. This leads to a situation where the most frequented stations will be even more so at the expense of stations which are less frequented but which deserve to be more frequented since they are closer to the homes of the users. Minister, can you confirm to us that the revision of the SNCB's offer under the new transportation plan has been carried out on the basis of the traffic calculated on the basis of the validated journeys? If so, could you provide us with statistics on the number of subscribers domiciled in Lessines (postal codes 7860, 7861, 7862, 7863, 7864 and 7866) who join Brussels (via Ath or Grammont), Mons and Tournai according to the station on which they validated their subscription?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u26	My colleague, the offer developed under the new transport plan takes account of numbers of visitors from passenger counts as well as sales of transport tickets. The review of the use of the 90 Grammont-Ath line showed a decrease in the number of travellers in recent years, from 816 to 748 in five years, without any change in the offer between December 2010 and December 2014. On the basis of this finding of attendance, the technical possibilities and the constraints associated with a split relationship in Ath, SNCB opted for the organisation of a rapid correspondence to Ath from Lessines. Despite this break in the load, the journey time did not increase as it took one hour and five minutes without breaking the load to reach Brussels before mid-December 2014 and today it takes one hour and three minutes. On the basis of the subscriptions sold in 2014 with Lessines as the station of origin or destination, an average of 363 persons holding a subscription travelled daily between the station of Lessines and a station in the Brussels area; 314 persons between Lessines and Ath, 58 persons between Lessines and Tournai and 42 persons between Lessines and Mons. For your perfect information, I meet the mayor of Lessines and Silly Friday morning because there is also a problem of travel of travelers from Lessines to Silly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for these points of answer. I will submit them to those who have met me on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u28	Madam President, Minister, last March, the National Council of Persons with Disabilities (CSNPH) issued an opinion following several reactions from persons with disabilities who were concerned about SNCB's offer of reduced assistance. This opinion conveys a multitude of fears and complaints from people with reduced mobility about the services offered to them. First, it would appear that replacing permanent on-site assistance with 18 B for you mobile teams would create additional constraints for SNCB, due to the fact that the customer has to request assistance 24 hours in advance or because the number of stations with simple or electrical chairs where the service would be offered to persons with reduced mobility (PMR) would be limited to 131. The service cannot therefore be provided throughout the network. It would appear that the teams would not be able to process the entire demand. I quote: "Another problem is that B for you teams are not equipped to handle all new requests for assistance from their region. In West Flanders, for example, the B for you team is not able to handle all requests for assistance. Comparable problems have been reported in Wallonia." And, even more worrying, "the CSNPH regularly receives complaints about confirmed requests for assistance that have not been followed up satisfactorily". In conclusion of this opinion, the National Higher Council for Persons with Disabilities issues several requests. It calls for SNCB not to save on accessibility and assistance for PMRs; for better training for B for you team members to be provided, given the technical, social and organisational skills necessary for the proper functioning of this service; and for sufficient assistance to be provided in all regions of the country. Finally, the CSNPH reiterates its opposition to the 24-hour rule applicable to the request for assistance. Minister, it is important that public services be able to provide an offer, a quality service to PMRs given their daily difficulties, not only in order to make their daily lives less tedious, but also and above all in order to improve their chances of integration into society. In view of the above, in a comprehensive way, what action has been taken on the opinion sent to you? Would a meeting with CSNPH be on the agenda? Is it envisaged to increase the number of teams B for you in order to ensure a balance between supply and demand for assistance? Is better training of these teams planned to ensure better service? How do you explain that confirmed requests for assistance would not have been followed up satisfactorily? Do any measures have or will be put in place to prevent this kind of problem from happening again? Would it be possible to make the 24-hour rule for the request for assistance more flexible?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u29	Ms. Thoron, SNCB frequently consults with the National Council of Persons with Disabilities. Quarterly meetings provide an opportunity to discuss all accessibility issues, be they rolling stock, communication or the operational organisation of assistance. Meetings between representatives of my firm, the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities and the SNCB have already taken place on this point. Currently, we are analysing how to more effectively analyse existing means to further improve the quality of service. Persons who have been confronted with problems in the organisation of the assistance requested are invited to file a complaint with SNCB's customer service. All complaints concerning assistance to PMRs are centralized in order to locate them and find appropriate solutions. My firm's initiative is aimed, among other things, at making this out-of-date 24-hour rule more flexible. I think we are the only European country to have such a long time to allow a disabled person to reserve assistance!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u30	Madam Minister, thank you. This question is obviously very important. The public service must provide a quality service to all users and in particular to persons with reduced mobility. I see you're paying attention to the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u31	Madam Minister, I had submitted this question in writing, but I did not receive an answer in good time, which means that I have to take advantage of your valuable time to put the question orally. According to the information communicated in the province of East Flanders, following the transport plan, a new station building would be built in Eeklo. The current building would be demolished in early 2016 and the new one would be delivered in 2018 or 2019. That was the planning, wasn't it? Since the announcement of that plan, early 2014, new savings have been imposed by the government. It is therefore not certain whether all the planned investments will be able to continue, hence my questions. Firstly, when will the demolition of the current Eeklo station building begin? Secondly, how long will the works take and when is the opening planned? Thirdly, are there other investments included in the investment plan, which we already know will not be met in due course?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u32	In view of the current budgetary context, SNCB will update its multi-annual investment plan on the basis of a full need analysis and the available budget. On the basis of that updated investment plan, the planning of the projects included in it will be possible, including the Eeklo station project.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u33	Madam Secretary, I look forward to the modified multi-annual investment plan. I hope it will be announced soon. I'll follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u34	Madam President, Madam Minister, many railway station renovation projects are under way on the Belgian network. This is a good thing in itself, since the stations are a central point, which allows, if well designed, to optimize the urban, social and multimodal fabric of the city centres. However, the evolution and duration of some construction sites remain perplexed. While some projects seem to be simply left out, others are very late, others are moving forward at the expected pace and others are running out of funding. In these circumstances, it is quite difficult to see clearly at what stage the various projects are at. Therefore, Madam Minister, for each of the stations (Ottignies, Namur, Mons, Malines, Courtrai, Ostend, Brussels-Central), can you tell me today, or one day, what the actual status of the projects on these various points is: the progress of the project, the amounts initially budgeted, the amounts actually liquidated, the updated estimate of the remainder to be paid and, finally, the estimate of the delay before completion of the work and before beginning for the projects which have not yet started? Moreover, given the budgetary context that your government is imposing, are these projects maintained as they stand? That, Madam Minister, is a few small questions that I am obviously looking forward to.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u35	Mr President, Mr Cheron, I thank you for this question which I will answer in detail. Several sheets have been prepared by SNCB for each of the stations, namely Ottignies, Namur, Mons, Malines, Courtrai, Ostend and Brussels-Central. You will receive these figures which give you the description of the project, the past and future budget and the planning of the work. Your question also gives me the opportunity to recall my vision of these major railway station projects that I will translate in concrete terms in the coming months via the new business plan, the next PPI and the future management contract between the State, Infrabel and SNCB. In recent years, very large railway station projects, sometimes described by some as pharaonic, have been developed in the South as well as in the North of our country. Some projects are still under construction. This is the case, in particular, of the Mons station, which was originally scheduled to be completed in 2015, but whose completion was postponed, according to SNCB, in the course of 2018. The delays are mainly due to problems in the planning of construction sites and the numerous appeals against the project. As a federal minister and mayor for years, I can understand that a new station is also an opportunity for a municipality, a city or a region to carry out a heritage development operation, to participate in the revival of socio-economic activities or, sometimes, to be the heart of the economic development of a municipality, both in the city and in rural areas. But in a budgetary context of savings coupled with the desire to increase the quality of the service oriented primarily towards the customer, I hope that SNCB and Infrabel can continue to renovate as many stations as possible, without directing very, sometimes too much, large amounts of investment towards these few pharaonic projects to the detriment of small stations or stop points. These places also require major renovations to increase the quality of services for all. In concrete terms, SNCB and Infrabel must pursue their policy of renovating our country's railway stations, focusing above all on their public service missions. Stations must be practical and clean. They must be accessible to all persons, including persons with reduced mobility. If certain regions or cities want to make their stations real works of art, cathedrals of the 21st century or mega shopping centers in the future, they will have to rely more on their ability to co-finance them rather than on their political relay within public companies. As I have indicated, I am sending you a fact sheet containing a great deal of detailed information. These sheets were prepared as early as 2014. According to SNCB, this information is the latest additions. Nevertheless, I would like to point out two elements that are not included in the report. On the one hand, the work of the Mons station would be completed in 2018 according to the SNCB press release. On the other hand, I asked SNCB to examine the possibility of saving money on the last remaining contracts. I believe that, for each project, the possibility of achieving savings should be considered where they have no impact on the quality of service. In this case, this money will have to be used, via the next PPI, to finance other projects in smaller Belgian stations. Finally, if I may, I would like to take the example of Switzerland, where I visited. In this country, there are stations which are not aesthetically extraordinary but which, on the other hand, are of exemplary functionality and frequented by a large number of people. They were able to make the transfer between the road and the railways. This is proof that it is not because the stations are pharaonic or have an exceptional architectural character that they attract more travellers. I think we really need to focus on the quality of service. I repeat, as far as the station in Mons is concerned, I have asked that the last part, whose contract has not yet been awarded, be revised downwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u36	Mr President, I thank the Minister for her comprehensive response, particularly with regard to general philosophy. We will have the opportunity to verify this in the other discussions we will have, particularly around the IPP. For the rest, I will analyze the cards I will receive – thank you. I think it is good to use an objective state of affairs before taking any consideration. I note, it seems to me to be relatively important, what you said on the last part of the train station in Mons, a station of which we are talking a lot. I thank you in any case for these answers, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u37	Question No 4113 by Mrs Vanheste is postponed. Joined Questions No 4122 by Mr Jef Van den Bergh and No 4171 by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u38	Madam Minister, in 2009 the adaptation of the Ministerial Decision of 3 May 2004 on the management of noise at Brussels National Airport provided for a transitional period for the maximum noise quotas for daily and evening flights. They were fixed on QC 48 and QC 24, respectively, except for aircraft that were already flying on Brussels-National in the year preceding the entry into force of the provision. The transitional period would expire at the end of 2014. For me, it is unclear whether that had or has implications for the airport. How many aircraft still used the transitional provision in 2014? Following the expiry of the transitional period, was all flights verified to comply with the noise quotas set? Are any steps taken to enforce them if necessary? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u39	According to the data provided by Brussels Airport Company to the DGLV, during the day a single departure above the QC value of 38 and at night 68 departures above the QC value of 24 were registered with devices under grandfather rights, i.e. under the transitional provisions. Those aircraft were able to benefit from the derogation from the Royal Decree of 3 May 2004. The verification is done automatically via the database of Brussels Airport Company by the airport inspection. The grandfather rights or in other words the transitional rules in Article 54 (2) expired on 25 October last year and that was served on Brussels Airport Company. The transitional regime will therefore expire and the derogation regime will remain in place as long as the Ministerial Decision of 3 May 2014 applies. Brussels Airport Company confirmed that the database was modified. The follow-up was carried out through the Brussels Airport database by the Environment Service of DGLV.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u40	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It is important that we follow that up, because those provisions were part of the airport agreements. I am therefore pleased that this is being followed up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u41	Questions Nos 4148 and 4152 by our fellow Members Mr Temmerman and Mr Wilmès are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u42	Mr. President, after the trains, I thought we were going to talk about electric bicycles. I'll talk about the planes. For several years, Belgocontrol but also BAC (Brussels Airport Company) has been seeking to install an ILS on Runway 07 L in order to improve the safety of operations at Brussels-National airport and to reduce noise pollution when this runway is to be used. This facility has also been requested by the pilot association since the early 1960s, as it would allow the use of cross-tracks to be abandoned (e.g. 01/07R). Noise nuisances would be reduced by the installation of an ILS by allowing a stabilization of the path in the descent plane rather than in descent by intermediate bearings with a go-around. In addition, installing an ILS on Runway 07 L would also reduce congestion and holding when this runway is to be used. In fact, the current VOR procedure requires large spacings between aircraft and severely limits capacity. Optimization of approach procedures on Runway 07 L is all the more justified as there has been a significant increase in the use of this runway for landings in recent years. As a result, minister, can you let me know if you have or have been aware of this claim? If so, what are the reasons why this instruction given in 2009 by the Secretary of State for Mobility in Belgocontrol has not yet been implemented? Is it envisaged that an ILS (urban planning permit, design procedure, purchase procedure) will be installed quickly with an average of six months of implementation planning?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u43	Mrs Caprasse, I am naturally well aware of these requests. As you say, a 2009 instruction was never followed. Managing this issue in an extremely complicated context, I have decided to take over all the elements in order to work on a structural solution as objective as possible, with in mind a "balanced" approach in the sense of European regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u44	Madam Minister, thank you. I would like to stress this point. It's a safety issue and it's a pilot's request. If anything happens, you will be responsible for it as a federal minister. There is an urgent need for this!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u45	Minister, the magazine Connect, edited by Brussels Airport Company (LAC), has seen its recent edition dedicated more specifically to the important work of repairing the runways which will take place from 27 May 2015 at Brussels-National Airport. It was presented in a Dutch unilingual edition in my municipality of Kraainem. It is very regrettable that such essential information, while many of my citizens suffer heavy and continuous noise pollution, is only disseminated in Dutch, whereas Kraainem is a municipality with a special language regime. I specify that Brussels Airport Company is a limited company to which the Belgian State has granted the airport operating licence, of which 75% of the company's shares are held by a consortium of private investors, with the Belgian State holding 25% of the shares. Brussels Airport Company is the successor of the public limited liability company Brussels International Airport Company (BLAC), which was formed in October 1998 by the merger between the ground operations of the Airway Authority and the Brussels Airport Terminal Company (BATC). With regard to the application of language laws, LAC may be considered a private enterprise, a legal person, entrusted by law or by public authorities with a mission of general interest which exceeds the limits of a private enterprise and, as such, is subject to the laws on the use of languages in administrative matters. Moreover, article 48, paragraph 2, of the laws on the use of languages in administrative matters stipulates that "the King may, by deliberate decree in the Council of Ministers, take special measures to regulate the application of these coordinated laws to Belgocontrol and BLAC, taking into account the conditions of operation of the airport". Since LAC is BLAC's legal successor, and no specific measures have yet been taken, the laws on the use of languages in administrative matters are still applicable (Opinion No. 31320 of 19 June 2001 of the Standing Committee on Linguistic Control). As a result, it can be considered that this unilingual shipment ignores language laws (article 40, paragraph 2; notices and communications addressed directly to the public by central services, which must be bilingual). So, minister, can you let me know if you've read this magazine? If so, what measures do you intend to take with respect to LAC to ensure that it complies with language laws in its dissemination standards, particularly with respect to special-regime municipalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u46	Mr President, Mrs Caprasse, I have read this review. It is very important, particularly in the communication to local residents about the work undertaken in Brussels-National. This review is a good means of communication for Brussels-National airport. Another good example is the joint website of Belgocontrol and Brussels Airport Company. Let us therefore first welcome this openness and appreciate the efforts of the Brussels-National airport to better communicate with citizens. Connect magazine has been distributed by Brussels Airport Company to more than 600,000 copies: more than 1.4 million Dutch readers in the Flemish Region, and in bilingual Dutch-French versions in the Brussels-Capital Region. Brussels Airport Company is a private company and therefore the laws on the use of languages in administrative matters apply only to acts which fall within its general interest mission, as defined by the Royal Decree of 21 June 2004 granting the operating licence of Brussels-National Airport to the public limited company BIAC. Consequently, the distribution of a purely informative magazine does not fall into this category. For the sake of good neighbourliness, Brussels Airport Company will distribute future editions in bilingual French-Dutch version to Kraainem. The digital version in French is also available on its website.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u47	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I myself wrote to Brussels Airport Company (LAC). Here's the answer I just received from CEO Arnaud Feist: "Brussels Airport Company is a private company. The laws on the use of languages in administrative matters therefore apply only to acts which fall within the scope of its mission of general interest, as defined by the Royal Decree of 20 June 2004 granting the Brussels-National Airport operating licence to the BAC public limited company. The distribution of a purely informative magazine does not fall into this category." This interpretation seems to me to be legally wrong for two reasons. LAC, on the basis of the Royal Decree of 2004, is indeed a legal person subject to the coordinated language laws (LLC), since it has been entrusted by law or the public authorities with a mission of general interest which exceeds the limits of a private undertaking. Pursuant to Article 1, § 2, 2 of the laws on the use of languages in administrative matters, the language laws are applicable to legal persons who are concessionaires of a public service, with the exception of the provisions relating to the organisation of services, the status of staff and the rights acquired by them. The dissemination of information is not an exception. In this respect, Article 35(1) of the Royal Decree stipulates that the holder of the operating licence shall provide, on a broad and transparent basis, information on the paths followed, inter alia, on the basis of information provided by the air traffic control body, and on the nuisances caused by aircraft using the Brussels-National airport, in accordance with the best practices of the reference airports. Therefore, I am entitled to believe that the magazine Connect is taking part in this information mission of the residents, in particular for the work carried out on the runways of the Brussels-National airport. Contrary to Mr Feist's assertion, this magazine falls into this category and, as a result, bilingual information is required in the communes with facilities. He promised me to do so in the future, but today I ask that people be informed in their own language about work that will disturb us for several months. It's information that people have a right to. I would ask you to urge Mr Feist to distribute this magazine in both languages in Kraainem. The fact of referring to a website is good, but there are many people who do not have it, especially the elderly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u48	Dear colleague, I have given you all the time to complete your reflection because the question is of importance, but I would point out that you have only one minute for your reply. In the future, thank you for taking this into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u49	Mr President, Minister, I have learned that SNCB-Holding had its own philatelic centre. At first I couldn't believe that myself, but I did some research and it turns out to be right. Among other things, that service made its own railway seals. However, it is not clear to me where this service was placed after the reform of the SNCB structure on 1 January 2014. Madam Minister, you are working on a modernisation plan, and in that respect I think it is important to examine this service and assess whether it is one of its core tasks. Hence my next questions. Where is the philatelic centre currently located within the SNCB structure? What services does it still operate? How many employees does this service have? What is the cost of that? Do you consider this activity to be a core task of the railways?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u50	Mr President, on 4 May 2015, SNCB's Management Committee decided to put a definitive stop to the issuance of railway vignettes and all its activities, because these activities are not part of the core tasks of the railway company.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u51	Madam Minister, thank you for your brief but clear answer. You said that that decision was taken on 4 May, and that is positive. My question dates back to 6 May, so it was a little late, because the right decision had already been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u52	Question No 4198 by Mrs Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u53	Madam Minister, in the case of SNCB, both recognised and non-approved trade unions receive an allowance for their trade union activities. Mr De Padt and Mr Vandeput have already asked a number of questions about this in the previous legislature. Then there was a great deal of displeasure among public opinion about the allowance to trade unions. The allowance shall be used, inter alia, for the reimbursement of members' allowances for trade union members. In the light of the current savings in which travellers are spared, any expenditure must be considered critically. SNCB stands for a huge saving exercise. The figures for trade unions vary in the press between 5.5 million euros and sometimes even 12 million euros per year. That is why I am happy to ask you the following questions. Can you give me a table of the allowances, per recognised and non-approved union, from 2012 to 2014? What is the total number of exempt persons in those years, broken down by language group? What is the allowance for? Are conditions attached to the allowance, such as social peace? Are the unions provided with ICT material or other benefits free of charge by the employer?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u54	Mrs De Coninck, HRL has provided me with the allowances and the number of exempts per recognised and unrecognised trade union in the period 2012-2014. I'll get you the numbers. The allowance is paid in order to provide the trade unions with the means deemed necessary by agreement to guarantee the social objective of the Belgian Railways, namely a sound service. The trade unions undertake to comply with the procedures of joint consultation laid down by law and by law, including the agreement reached on the interruptions of work. In this context, the trade unions will receive a sum of money for the same equipment as the administrative staff in active service, in particular a standard computer, a standard mobile phone and a limited call credit. The allowances have been paid for many years. I also ask questions about the fact that there is no justification for this. For me, everyone has to save.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u55	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I can follow your reasoning. I also think it is implicit discrimination because the employee who does not wish to join a union loses that advantage because he does not get the premium reimbursed. It is an advantage that the employer gives to the employee through the unions. We wonder whether this should not be given directly. This way this system is maintained. We are therefore not surprised that there is such a high degree of synchronisation among SNCB. We will continue to follow this up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u56	Questions Nos 4207 and 4213 by Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Michel de Lamotte and Jef Van den Bergh are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u57	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, recent statistics on road traffic violations by foreign drivers have been published. The article dates from May 6. This is a direct consequence of the application of the European Cross Border Directive, which facilitates the cross-border exchange of information in the event of non-compliance with the Road Traffic Code. While cooperation between European countries in the field of driving offences is improving considerably, it is incumbent on me that at present a good number of fines are simply not paid by foreign drivers who have been found guilty and have been the subject of a report in our country. Minister, are there any statistics on unpaid fines for foreign drivers? How can we act to ensure that fines are paid more efficiently?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Cross Border Directive makes it possible to identify European drivers on the basis of their vehicle's registration plate; it aims to enable the effective prosecution of foreign offenders who commit road offences. While it must be acknowledged that this directive is making a significant improvement since Member States have a legal basis for identifying foreign offenders in their territory, it does not directly provide means to enforce fines. I do not have any statistics on the number of unpaid fines. Like my plan to combat impunity for fines, a solution should be found to solve this problem, after reflection at European level. But it turns out to be a more complex exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u59	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. As I am not a permanent member of this committee, I learn that you have already drawn up a plan that you intend to put in place. Like you, I believe that there is a need for concerted action at European level. As I said, our French neighbours are very talented in their efforts to get fines paid by foreign drivers in their country. It is important to reflect on this issue, especially since our country is a transit country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u60	With France, it already works.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u61	Mr President, Minister, I have a rather technical question about the ministerial decision of 9 January 2007 on the municipal parking card. This decision includes paragraph 2 of Article 2: "The City Council determines the category of persons to whom the municipal parking card can be issued. It also gives the conditions for the award. Paragraph 4 states: "The residents card can only be issued to persons who have their main place of residence or residence in the municipality, zone or street listed on the map. Madam Secretary, I have three technical questions. Firstly, with regard to a blue zone, should the city council decide on the demarcation of the streets or zones within which the residents' card applies and where sub-signs............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Secondly, is an unspecified decision of the city council, as I quote: every resident with an address in the blue zone can obtain a maximum of two residents' cards sufficient to authorise the college to issue residents' cards in each zone and to determine for itself on which streets or zones they apply? Thirdly, what is included in the description "category of persons'?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u62	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, a blue zone in which the regulation of limited parking time applies may consist of a street, part of a street or a whole of streets. The marking of a blue zone shall be carried out by means of an additional regulation. Only the city council is competent to establish the municipal supplementary regulations. This power cannot be entrusted to the College of Mayors and ships. The limited parking time within that blue zone shall not apply where a special parking regime has been introduced for persons holding municipal parking cards and parking cards on the inside of the windscreen. The municipal parking card, in particular the residents card, thus replaces the parking disc. This implies that only the city council can determine within which areas with limited parking time the use of a residents card can apply. The city council must clearly define in the additional municipal regulations the areas in which the blue zone regulation will apply. If the municipal regulations provide that each resident with an address within a blue zone can obtain a maximum of two residents cards, this implies that the College of Mayors and ships is obliged to issue a maximum of two residents cards to all residents within a blue zone. Categories of persons are defined as target groups eligible for a municipal parking card such as residents, health professionals, members of certain associations, etc. These categories are also determined by the city council.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u63	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u64	Mr President, Minister, we have heard that a number of investments are being made in the stations and station environments of Herentals, Turnhout and Lier for budgetary reasons. So we are still aware of the consequences of the savings plans. These stations are important regional hubs and have been awaiting investment and innovation for some time. The municipalities have also taken up a number of study firms and drawn up master plans. It is very annoying for the municipal authorities when one of the partners withdraws and postpones his commitments for a certain period of time. Travellers in this region therefore have to pay more for less services. Madam Secretary, is it true that the renovation of the Herentals, Lier and Turnhout stations is being put on hold? What impact does this have on the passengers of those stations? In a first phase of the development of the master plan concerning the station district of Herentals, there was already a signed commitment with Infrabel and SNCB. As far as the second phase is concerned, the contracts negotiated have been signed by the SNCB Group for a year. When will we sign the second phase of the master plan? Infrabel is involved in abolishing consideration in the station district of Herentals. The undertunneling of the consideration is necessary for safety and mobility in the municipalities. When can we receive the overall content of the investment plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the renewal projects of the stations Herentals, Lier and Turnhout are part of the multiannual investment plan 2013-2025. It is only after this that the cooperation agreement for Herentals can be signed and that clarity regarding the abolition of it will be considered. As regards the number of passengers at these stations, for Turnhout, SNCB counts 1 504 passengers each day. For Herentals with 4 015 and for Lier with 5 729 this number is considerably higher. The censuses were carried out in October 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u66	Madam Minister, thank you for the figures on the number of passengers taking off. The other news isn't as good. Indeed, you say that clarity will be provided when the multi-annual investment plan comes into effect, but we fear that the result will be that things will be postponed. The number of directly departing passengers is 11 000 but there is also an impact on the region, which means that there are 25 000 people in an unclear situation today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u67	Madam Minister, we read in reports that SNCB would provide for the possibility for train escorts to re-enter their activities after their retirement. But if we adopt this measure, is there not a problem of timely recruitment? Specifically, how many train escorts would be called? Is it full-time or half-time contracts? What about the fee? What about pension rights? Have the necessary measures been taken with regard to the legislation on accidents at work? What is the task package? Should training be renewed, inter alia, in relation to regulation, safety and commercial regulation? What are the legal consequences if there are security breaches? Should candidates also participate in the various permanent training courses organised for other train escorts?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u68	SNCB informs me that about 60 train escorts are eligible to strengthen the ranks. These are half-time contracts for a maximum period of four months. The fee is the same as that of other fellow train attendants. Their pension rights are maintained because they remain below the maximum amount to be earned. Since they are offered a temporary contract, they are therefore insured against accidents at work. They will be deployed as chief or control train supervisor. Since they have recently retired, they still have a licence of train escort. For security breaches there is no difference with statutory train escorts. There are already contractual train escorts at the moment. There are a total of 160 train escorts to be recruited this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u69	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. A maximum duration is therefore foreseen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u70	Question No 4258 by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux is postponed at his request. Question No 4320 by Mr Veli Yüksel is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u71	Mr President, Madam Minister, the analysis of more than 32 million road fines points to a significant increase in the number of excess speeds in Belgium. This is due in particular to an increase in controls. On the other hand, radars have multiplied, making the tracking of infringements more effective. It should also be noted that working days account for 61.1% of checks, compared with 27% on weekends and 5.3% on weekends, which are most conducive to slipping. The government's objectives are known. You are very ambitious in this regard, as you set yourself the goal of reducing the number of people killed on our roads by 420 by 2020 compared to 2010. Minister, do you intend to increase the number of speed controls in the coming years, especially at sensitive times such as weekend nights? We are halfway between 2010 and your 2020 target. Can we therefore be satisfied with the results achieved?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u72	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, as Federal Minister for Mobility, I want to give new impetus together with all the actors concerned in order to redefine a road safety policy for the whole country, so that not only the target set by the government for 2020 but also the target of zero road accidents can be achieved. As you know, in 2014, according to the IBSR barometer, there were 41,651 personal injuries and 615 people lost their lives in a traffic accident. It's obviously still too much. In concrete terms, I am evaluating within the Federal Road Safety Commission what has been done since the twenty recommendations of the General States of Road Safety in 2011 with the Regions and all stakeholders (police, road users, etc.).). Many subjects related to road safety have since been regionalised. That is why we will need more than ever to work together to ensure that everyone's efforts are coherent. Security can no longer be limited to a communication competition on awareness. With regard to the sanction policy, I have already detailed the various measures that will be implemented this year to increase the objective and subjective risk of being controlled. These measures respond to various recommendations of the 2011 General States of Road Safety. Through these measures, I want to streamline the work of prosecutors and the police to ensure that every crime found is punished. The police services are under the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, but the number of reports of excessive speed by the Federal Highway Police has more than doubled in the last five years. This is due to the modernization of the identification processes and the significant efforts undertaken since 2014 to increase the share of mobile checks carried out at night and on weekends.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u73	Madam Minister, thank you. I note, and I welcome it – this is a very important subject that must not be overlooked – that you and your colleague, the Minister of the Interior, have this issue in hand. We can therefore hope that your objectives can be achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u74	Madam Minister, at the committee meeting on 6 May I asked you a question about the train supply to and from the Kempen. A passenger survey showed that they considered this offer to be inadequate. You said at the time that the offer was still wide and referred to the extension of the Brussels-Herentals peak hour train to Mol, which was due to take place in December of this year. Later that day, Mr Van den Bergh asked a similar question. You replied that SNCB was investigating whether an additional peak hour train between Brussels and Herentals was possible and whether it could be extended to Mol, as would be the case for the regular peak hour train from December. I would like to be clear about this, given the contradiction in your answers. Is there an investigation into an additional peak hour Brussels-Herentals train going through to Mol, or not? If this is the case, when will this investigation about setting up an additional peak hour train be around? What parameters are being investigated? The potential? The offer compared to the number of travelers? How are the parameters investigated? By questioning? By counts? In collaboration with the local authorities? Which service within SNCB is responsible for carrying out the research? Who takes the final decision on whether or not to insert an additional peak hour train?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u75	Mr President, SNCB confirms to me that from September 2015, the current P-train will depart from Mol between Herentals and Brussels in the morning. Moreover, the current P-train will be extended to Mol in the evening between Brussels and Herentals. Finally, it is still being studied whether an additional P-train will leave one hour in the morning between Mol and Brussels before the current P-train. The studies for an additional peak hour train are almost complete and the requests for lanes have been delivered to Infrabel. As always, the offer is determined on the basis of the passenger needs, the passenger bookings, the sales figures and the occupancy figures and the technical feasibility is taken into account. In addition to the information collected by SNCB itself, information analyses and surveys provided by, for example, local administrations and travelers' organisations are also taken into account. Both the Marketing and Sales Directorates and SNCB-Transport carry out the analysis of the transport offer. The introduction of an additional P-train requires a significant use of budget and means of production. After a positive feasibility study, the file is submitted to the Management Committee for decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u76	Madam Minister, it is now clear that there is an investigation and that we will soon have more clarity about it. We'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u77	Minister, on February 12, DHL issued a press release announcing its intention to invest 114 million euros in a new sorting centre on the Brussels Airport site in Zaventem. The announced goal is to increase sorting capacity from 12,000 to 39,500 shipments per hour, with the prospect of creating 200 jobs by 2020. This may be good news for employment at Brussels Airport, but it may be less good for the environment and the health of people flying, whether in Brussels or in the periphery, in Wallonia or Flanders. According to statements by DHL's director, Koen Gouweloose, this increase in activity will not result in an increase in night flights, of which DHL is, as we know, a very large consumer. He said: "We will remain within the legal framework of the maximum 16,000 night flights per year, but we will fly more during the day". It should be recalled that DHL decided in 2004 to leave Brussels in part for Leipzig because it had not obtained an increase in the number of night flights. Mrs Durant certainly remembers. All of a sudden now, the ceiling of 16,000 night flights that hasn't changed would no longer be a problem. Unlike DHL's reassuring statements in February, Le Vif L'Express revealed on 8 May last the content of the Roadmap for sustainable growth that DHL presented to the political authorities. The 2013 document states that DHL, on the contrary, forecasts an increase of 57% in the number of night take-offs between 2013 and 2020, from 2,654 to 4,182 night flights! Knowing that the 5,000 take-off quota is already almost reached today (all companies combined, DHL and the others), I will have to explain how DHL intends to do this if it does not obtain the revision of this quota. It is also known that the airline sector, represented by the Belgian Air Transport Association (chaired by the same Koen Gouweloose), has been calling for the abolition of this quota of 16,000 flights for several years. In a memorandum presented in June 2012 to your predecessor's office, he asks for "the replacement of the limit number of movements by the existing noise quota system"! With regard to day flights, i.e. those operated between 0600 and 2300 hours, DHL would provide for the replacement of its small aircraft with larger, therefore louder, carriers. Minister, are you aware of DHL's Roadmap for sustainable growth? Do you confirm its content? Have DHL officials met with you about this recently or not? What do you intend to do to prevent the increase in night flights desired by DHL, as indicated in this document? What do you intend to do to frame the use of louder aircraft during the day? Is it not time to apply the environmental night between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.? Do you confirm that you will not reach the current ceiling of 16,000 night flights, including 5,000 take-offs?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u78	Mr President, I did meet DHL this Monday to take stock of their ambitions. From this exchange, it appears that the announced investments will only be allocated to investment in a new sorting centre. Therefore, there is no question of a review of night flights for DHL. Therefore, the ceiling will not be reviewed. Day flights must comply with ministerial orders of 3 May 2004, including compliance with noise quotas per hour of such aircraft.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u79	Mr President, I thank the Minister for this information. Minister, keep your course!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u80	MM. Wilrycx and Van den Bergh are not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u81	Madam Minister, at the beginning of May reports were published in the press on the setting up of master plans for Turnhout and Herentals stations. For Herentals, this would mean, among other things, that there will be no undertunnel on the Powder Lee Road, which will keep the traffic miserable at certain points in Herentals acute. Every time the barriers close to the 2 crossings around the crossroads at Wellens, called the ovotonde, the traffic on the ring in Herentals sludges. For Turnhout this would mean that there is no longer any mention of the new station Turnhout-Zuid. This station would normally be located along the industrial site and would ensure that a lot of traffic could be prevented from the centre of Turnhout. For your information, there are 400 000 people living in the Kempen, of whom 20 000 work in Brussels or the outskirts of Brussels. That's not an insignificant group. Is it correct that the master plans for the stations of Turnhout and Herentals are on hold for the time being? Then why is that? What exactly does on hold mean? Those plans are definitely in the wastebasket? If this is not the case, what is the most recent time frame known for the development of these two master plans? When will there be official communication to the municipalities? Now the municipalities are only informally tipped off. On what basis is it decided whether a master plan or investment is still going on or not? Who's involved in that decision? Is it based on studies? What results do they give rise to the cessation of investment in certain stations or municipalities and the continuation of investment in other municipalities? What are the main priorities of these master plans? What problems or bottlenecks does SNCB intend to address? Can you give me an overview of the total investments made over the last 10 years at the stations of Herentals and Tielen? I would like an overview of the total investments made over the last 10 years to all SNCB stations in Belgium, broken down by province. Which stations were still carrying out investments or master plans and which of them are continuing and which are being postponed? The Kempenaars must be seriously reduced since the last timetable with the exchange of the modern double deckers with the obsolete AM75-ers (the pig noses) and with the removal of the earliest and the last train. Why are the Kempen now being endorsed in this round of savings for investment?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u82	In view of the current budgetary context, SNCB will update its multi-annual investment plan on the basis of a full need analysis of budgetary availability. That updated investment plan will enable the planning of the projects included in it to be determined. At that time, it will be possible to specify the timetable of the various investment projects it contains.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u83	Madam Minister, that is not really an answer to the six questions I have asked. There's still no clarity. I will therefore use my reply to point out once again that the Kempen has already seriously lost on the material that has been used, on the comfort. However, this is a large group of travellers. Several people's representatives regularly ask questions about this. We will continue to harass you with questions until our offer is improved. The investments are very much needed in our region. I hope you can see that and take that into account in the analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u84	Mr President, Minister, this is a question from the real opposition from the Kempen. I am, of course, pleased that Mrs Van Camp is very critical, but I invite her to make the necessary criticisms about reducing the funds provided in the budget. My colleague has already explained the investments. In my previous question, I also mentioned the fact that this is being put on hold and the effect of it. As regards the further extension of the line to Mol, you replied that this will be achieved in December. So I won't ask that question again. The question remains about additional investments in the Kempian railway stations, which I put pro forma because I think I know the answer to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u85	Do you want to ask your question?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u86	Mr President, I am asking the question, but I assume I already know the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u87	Mr Geerts, I will be able to answer your question as soon as the investment plan is available.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u88	I won't replicate. We will indeed see what happens when the investment plan is available.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u89	Madam Minister, I have looked outside my region for a moment and looked at the file on the signal collisions, which I said I would follow up on. The detection of signal collisions is a success, because the systems installed for this purpose work effectively. In recent times, we've recorded three signs of collision. During the morning rush, the impact of this is enormous. In the written preparation of my question I had included the figure: 90 hours delay due to one incident. That makes sense when it happens on the North-South link. I am very pleased that the systems are working. The success gives me the opportunity to reflect on whether we should not relieve the North-South link by providing alternative connections so that passengers have a choice. But let me come back to the problem of signal collisions. What were the reasons for it? We gave the message here once in the vote that a train driver should be replaced immediately when he passes a red signal, but added that we had to evaluate that procedure one day. Now that the systems are working effectively and there is absolutely no danger, does the question arise whether the train driver should be replaced immediately? TBL1+ seems to be working. I assume that both the line and the equipment were equipped with TBL1+ during the three incidents. I shall drop the question on the Investment Plans for ETCS, as we have already explained this in committee. I believe the planning is still on schedule. Finally, to what extent will the discharge of the North-South link be included in the multiannual investment plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u90	Mr Geerts, there were indeed two fatalities in Brussels-North and Brussels-Luxembourg. The following causes were identified. On 11 May 2015, the driver in Brussels-North was distracted for an unknown reason. On 12 May 2015 in Brussels-Noord, the inexperience of the student driver and the lack of guidance by the responsible train driver led to the signal collision. On 12 May 2015, a combination of factors was involved in Brussels-Luxembourg, where the train driver lost the concentration on the signalling device and only at the very last minute realised that a signal collision could no longer be avoided. The safety requirements relating to the replacement or replacement of the driver after a signal collision will be adapted in the following sentence. The driver concerned may be allowed to move his train to a place where the train can emigrate and/or the passengers can switch to a passenger train in order to reduce the remaining traffic nuisance after a signal collision. The decision whether or not to allow the driver concerned to drive to that location shall be taken by the infrastructure user. The latter shall report the result of that decision to Traffic Control. In the three cases cited, both the trains and the signals were equipped with TBL1+. Fourteen percent of the network was equipped with ETCS on 1 May 2015. It goes without saying that the whole problem of the North-South link in Brussels and the further development of a realistic GEN supply must be dealt with in a multiannual plan for investment to be revised.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u91	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. In this house we have spent a lot of time on signal collisions, which is why I absolutely want to follow up on problamism. The problem is getting better and better. I can only welcome that, because it means that the measures taken will work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u92	Madam Minister, in your reply to a question by Mr Nollet on 7 April, you said that, at the end of last year, SNCB carried out an investigation in the form of mystery shopping to measure passenger control. You indicated that you would do that again in March and April. Did that investigation take place? What was the passenger control rate in March and April? Can you get me the figures for that new investigation? Do you intend to deploy mobile control teams in the long term?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u93	In March and April, the control rate was 71.7 %. The purpose of this study was, among other things, to quantify the level of control of tickets on trains. The score 71.7 % is significantly higher than the 62 % of September and October 2014. The Transport Directorate of SNCB already has mobile control teams, the ticket control teams. 51 train escorts are currently active in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic171x.u94	I note that the score has improved. That's a good thing. You say 51 employees are being deployed on mobile control teams. I believe that this is also positive. It is not possible for the level of control to be so low that the traveller is almost encouraged not to buy a ticket. That wouldn't be right. Public transport has a price tag and the traveller must of course buy a ticket.
