ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u1	Mrs Jadin cannot be present for her question No. 585.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u2	Mr Secretary of State, my first question dates from a while ago. The last time we saw each other, I understood that you would be sitting with the construction industry today. My first question therefore lapses somewhat. However, my question remains relevant because you have also announced that you will organise round tables with other risk sectors, such as transport, catering and cleaning. I have two questions. Any news? I understand you've been with the construction industry this morning. Is there any news on this? Are there any results? Have any plans been made yet? Are you planning short-term talks with the other risk sectors? Mr Secretary of State, I come to my second question on public procurement in the construction sector. You know that if a government wants to order certain services or works, it must rely on and comply with public procurement legislation. The legislation imposes a number of rules and procedures to allow open competition. In the case of a public tender, the contracting authority is obliged to award the contract to the candidate with the lowest price. This obligation sometimes encourages social fraud because the lowest price is sometimes very different from the other tenders submitted. The construction sector therefore proposes to exclude contractors with abnormally low prices. An abnormal price should then be understood as a price which can only be justified by the evasion of labour, social security or fiscal legislation. My specific questions are as follows. Do you share the concerns of the construction sector? Do you intend to raise the issue with your fellow officers in the federal government? Will you encourage the competent colleagues to review and, if necessary, adapt public procurement legislation so that public authorities can exclude candidates at an abnormally low price? What adjustments do you propose if necessary? Finally, the construction sector proposes to include the acceptance of abnormally low prices as a criminal offence in the law on market practices. How do you feel about this proposal? So I come to my question about electronic attendance in the construction sector. We have already discussed this issue in detail. Since 1 April 2014, the mandatory electronic presence registration has been applied to construction yards of more than 800 000 euros. This measure was introduced to combat social fraud and dumping in the construction sector. Those who fail to comply with the obligation can expect heavy fines since 1 January 2015. You have already explained that there is a distinction between theory and practice, whereby a transitional period is introduced. That's perfectly understandable. That is not the point, however. I have the following specific question. The main contractor is responsible for the registration of the presence of his own staff, but also of the employees and/or the self-employed in the chain below him. However, where a subcontractor continues to ignore this obligation to register, the subcontractor shall not only be fined. Will you change the sanctions policy so that only those who make the mistake will be punished? Do you have knowledge of companies that systematically apply the rules on electronic attendance registration on a voluntary basis to yards of less than EUR 800 000? Finally, my question about unfair competition in the construction sector. I don't have to tell you that the sector isn't doing well. Over the past two and a half years, there has been a job loss of more than twelve thousand equivalents. Recent estimates indicate that there are still 6 000 to arrive by the end of this year. An important cause is competition from abroad. The free movement of services and workers enables foreign workers to be employed on the Belgian market. We know that story, so I won't explain it in detail. It is good if this would meet the staff shortage or provide additional expertise. However, less good is when European legislation, which we do not question, is abused by companies, such as Polish Vakman, in the news a dozen days ago, which would organise unfair competition. This is done through the system of postings. In this system foreign workers can be temporarily employed in our country and must respect Belgian working and wage conditions, the well-known working country principle. However, this does not apply to social security. The posted worker remains subject to the social security system of the country of origin for a maximum period of two years and is therefore much cheaper than his Belgian counterpart. In concrete terms, the Confederation of Construction requires additional checks. However, these alone will not solve the problem of unfair competition because many short-term postings are perfectly organised legally. My first question is therefore whether you will encourage your fellow Members at European level to remove the system errors that encourage unfair competition from European legislation. Secondly, do you think that the working country principle should be strengthened and extended to social security? Thirdly, in the meantime, efficient controls remain, of course, necessary. What concrete steps will you take to combat the fragmentation of services?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u3	We are waiting a minute for Mrs Lanjri to come for her question No. 1923. In the meantime, Mrs. Lijnen can already ask her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u4	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, there is some concern in the Netherlands about a form of social fraud which may not have been sufficiently noted and addressed before. In some countries it is possible to change identity several times legally. Only the personal number and the date of birth will be retained. This is possible in Croatia, Romania, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Serbia and Albania. In this context, I quote De Telegraaf: fraudsters can register with different identities in another country and create different social security files there. Mr Secretary of State, are you aware of this form of passport fraud? What is your opinion on this? What measures have already been taken and what will you take in the future to combat this fraud? What are your views on consultation with the countries concerned or with neighbouring countries? What is the extent of this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u5	Mrs Lijnen, on the basis of the information currently available from the investigation carried out by the Dutch authorities, this possible fraud concerns only a very small group of about 15 people who may be subject to multiple registration. Moreover, as far as is known, no findings of fraud were made. I have already instructed my services to be very attentive to this issue. It was agreed that in the event of the slightest suspicion of identity fraud, the European Form U1 would be verified at the issuing authority and that the PPS would verify the right to social assistance. I have also contacted the competent Dutch Secretary of State, Mr Teeven, and the Benelux Secretariat-General. As the abovementioned cases of fraud would have occurred in the Netherlands, this seemed important to me. In the meantime, I have been in contact with the Secretary of State on the occasion of the European summit in Riga. In any case, within my policy area, I will continue to focus on data mining and on the crossing of data between inspection services, social security institutions, tax administration, the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises and other bodies, including to avoid the double use of social benefits or an improper accumulation of benefits.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, although it is a small group in the Netherlands, I believe it is necessary to remain very vigilant. In the past, among other things in the Senate, I have repeatedly argued for the importance of data mining. So I can only emphasise that our group supports you in this. Above all, it is intended to solve all forms of social fraud, which undermines our system of solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u7	Mrs Lanjri, I give you the floor for your question. 1923.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, recently there was a commotion about the Polish trade union company Belgium, which would make Polish workers available to Belgian companies without fulfilling the conditions to provide temporary workers or the conditions for posting abroad. The Confederation of Construction wants to take further steps. During the plenary session of 29 January, we heard from the Minister of Work that the Social Inspectorate is investigating the Polish Vakman Belgium company. The company would have been active in Belgium for six years. The investigation is still ongoing. How can it be explained that it takes so long for the inspection to take a decision in such cases? What steps will you take to facilitate such procedures in the future, so that certain abuses can be dealt with more quickly and more quickly? At the last meeting of the Social Affairs Committee, you said that the round table with the construction sector would take place this morning. Are the problems with the said company or similar companies on the agenda? What subjects were discussed this morning? What concrete actions and arrangements have emerged from the consultations with the sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have just come from the discussions with the construction sector. We are dealing with a European market, with European integration. Everyone must be aware that the free movement of goods and services is accompanied by a number of added value. It is good that the principle of the free movement of goods and services in Europe applies. It is sometimes necessary to be able to employ workers who are not immediately available on the Belgian market, but of course we have a great deal of competition. As Secretary of State, I am responsible for combating social fraud and not social security, as was said wrongly last week. I believe that fair competition is included. In fact, it would be better for the State Secretary to be responsible for fair or loyal competition. We are faced with dumping, which is a major challenge, not only for the construction sector but also for a number of other fraud-prone sectors, such as transport, cleaning and meat. I also spoke this morning about the company called 'Polish Vakman'. I take this opportunity to support the measures in my action plan against social dumping, which I have taken up in my policy letter and defended in Parliament. I believe that the organisation of a single point or contact or a contact point for social fraud is a matter of great urgency. We need to get rid of all kinds of Kafkaian situations in that area. Indeed, information about malpractice reaches the inspection through all kinds of channels, even through my mailbox at home and through the cabinet. Not only is the collection of information not organised, but also the handling of complaints is not organised. For example, I'm receiving a complaint. I'll give it to my deputy secretary, who'll then pass the complaint on to some social inspection service. Well, then no one can follow where the complaint is and where the information is brought together at some point. This morning I was informed through the Bouwunie of a complaint about a Polish company using similar advertising. In short, it is essential that we centralise the information, because the social inspection services do have data from social security, the RSZ and the RVA, but the practical information on the field depends on external sources. Just so we're clear, this isn't about a click line. It is a hotline where trade unions, employers or private individuals can report fraud and false competition to the Social Inspectorate, which compiles the data and then acts in an organized manner. I believe that this is absolutely necessary and crucial in the fight against social dumping. Secondly, I also made it very clear this morning during the consultation with the construction sector that we should take a number of initiatives at the same time on three fronts. That has also been very well received. First and foremost, we have national rules which should be able to be used in the fight against social dumping. If we are to take action, they must be effective and immediately effective. There is no point in creating rules and new laws and procedures, which are not being used or whose compliance is not being checked. I will also consult with Mr Francken with a view to more transparent and simpler procedures, which can be monitored at national level. Everyone is aware that action must also be taken at international level. For example, I would like to see a cooperation established at Benelux level and Benelux-plus level. To this end, two months ago, I sent a letter of intent to the Prime Minister of Luxembourg calling for a joint approach to social dumping, which I confirmed recently at the Belgium-Luxembourg summit. Next month I will go to The Hague, where I would also like to agree with my Dutch colleague, Mr Van Werk, on a number of measures which we can implement together in the Benelux. I want to go even further. We have already agreed with the Benelux countries, France, Germany, Austria and Spain on a common approach to security in the Prüm Convention. We have also taken steps together with the Netherlands, France and Germany against the anti-privacy policy of Facebook. We must also do so in the area of social dumping. There is already a well-functioning instrument at Benelux level. That is what we need to do in order to take joint action, together with France, Germany and Austria, at a Benelux-plus level. If a number of bilateral agreements are made with France and Germany, we can make progress. In my opinion, this road has been too little gone before. There is also the European level of policy. The regulation in this area is not so obvious. Let us think about the issue of issuing A1 forms and their monitoring. Indeed, Europe is always rather reluctant to adopt new rules that hinder the free movement of goods and services. During my interview with European Commissioner Marianne Thyssen, it became clear that we are on the same wavelength in the fight against social dumping. We do not touch the free movement of goods and services, but we do need means of control from Europe to deal with unfair competition and fraud, such as mafia situations, up to and including trafficking in human beings. It is about the preservation and creation of jobs and about economic growth. Firstly, we want to eliminate unfair competition in the important construction sector. Europe must give us the means to do so and to tackle fraud mechanisms. There are many possibilities. This morning I listed a number of proposals with both trade unions and employers. I have asked them to put forward priorities on which we agree and for which everyone with their European partners can take a number of measures very quickly and efficiently, including on public procurement. Mr Raskin, I agree with you 100%. If we allocate the tenders as we do today, the contract will always be awarded to the lowest bidder. As a government, it is our duty to check whether there are no obvious possibilities of abuse in that tender. That could be about the use of materials. That's a new element that wasn't in the question. The materials sometimes do not meet European standards, because some self-employed people bring them from abroad, are not controlled by our services and are not in good health in terms of safety and sustainability. In terms of wages and social security, there may also be shortcomings. If it is found that in a public tender the prices are clearly below the normal prices, the public authorities have a duty to carry out at least a quality check and to check whether they are setting an example. The same applies to the local authorities. In my view, it is a principle of good governance and good governance that we control the means to carry out a work. We do not have to take the highest price if we do not have to, but it is our job to check whether the public tender is not awarded to malicious firms which do not comply with the rules in force. An abnormal pricing should be checked. I have just concluded a protocol with Deputy Prime Minister Homans for cooperation between the social inspection services and the Facilitair Bedrijf Vlaanderen. That too is fresh from the press. Mrs. Homans will be communicating on that today. The protocol means that in the implementation of public contracts awarded by the Facilitair Bedrijf Vlaanderen, we will check whether everything is in order in the area of legislation to combat social fraud and illegal employment. That protocol was closed today. You will notice that there is still cooperation in our country, not only in the federal government, but also between the federal government and the Flemish government. I have received another question about the electronic recording of presence in construction. I believe that it is absolutely necessary and I also believe that all the parties agree on this. The only question is what is the cost of that. We must only be aware of the fact that we need to be able to determine who is allowed to be present in a yard when carrying out checks. Today we are talking about companies that have a turnover of more than 800 000 euros. I don't think that's enough. I believe that we need a general registration at the yards. We will discuss this with the social partners in the coming months. I feel a certain willingness on their part to take the necessary steps. Not only domestic workers, but also foreign workers must register. We have the great advantage that a few weeks ago the European Court gave us the permission to have the Limosa notification obligation applied to foreign workers. The big problem lies with the self-employed and false self-employed. In this respect, I made specific arrangements with Mr Borsus this morning. He will evaluate the law on employment relations to address the problems of the self-employed and the bogus self-employed in the yards. We must achieve results in this area. We also note that in recent months more and more foreign workers have been registered through Limosa. A number of problems have arisen in this area, but they have now been resolved. A possible merger of inspection services is regularly requested. Allow me a moment to look at how the various inspection services work on the ground, so that we may be able to make proposals for more efficient operation in the course of the legislature. Moreover, it is an illusion to think that the merger of inspection services is the only solution. Fusion and cooperation is a means, but not an end in itself. In other words, I do not want to go over a night of ice and engage in dialogue with the inspection services. The government has also decided that the inspection services should not be reduced in any way. Unlike the savings operation in other services, it has approved the deployment of additional inspectors on the ground. I realize there's a problem with the working country principle. I am very much in favour of a European procedure for collecting social security contributions. If someone is posted here, we would collect the contributions here and pass them on to the country of origin. I believe that is what the trade unions and employers are asking for. Of course it is not so easy to organise this within Europe, but that could be one of the points of attention. In the meantime, it is important that we respect European rules, but that we also convince the countries of origin such as Romania, Bulgaria, Cyprus and Portugal that they lack income by allowing fraud in these systems. As long as someone follows the rules, there's no problem. There may still be some form of difficult competition, but if someone clearly does not comply with the rules, then we are missing income from social security and the country of origin also misses that income. The point is to convince the countries of origin that we need to work together to roll out the fraud systems. According to the reports I'm getting from the Social Inspectorate, there are straightforward mafia situations in this area. It is also about degrading situations where workers are brought here and have to work at dumped prices that are really scandalous. They must then stay here and stay overnight in circumstances that are no longer possible in our parts and at this time. I believe that we need to build up files on this, because there are European procedures for bringing these files to European level if there is evidence that there is social fraud. I asked my inspection services how many files are pending today to convince my fellow officers abroad and in Europe. Apparently, there are no files. I said immediately that as Secretary of State, I do not accept that existing procedures, however difficult they may be and however much they may be simplified, are not being used to show Europe and the countries of origin that something is actually going wrong. So I have instructed my services to compile files so that in future I have a suitcase full of files and not an empty suitcase to convince my colleagues in other countries that together we need to roll up the fraud systems in the interests of everyone, the companies, the employees and the public authorities themselves, who lack a lot of income due to practices that completely disrupt our social security system.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u10	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your detailed explanation. Indeed, it is not just about the impact on our economy, it is also a humane response for exploited workers. You are sending a clear and pleasing message: we absolutely must not allow free movement to be abused in order to organise unfair competition. I do not question its added value, we do not challenge that basic principle. However, we must tackle the fight against social dumping, which is largely at European level. I am also pleased that you will take concrete initiatives at Benelux plu level to form some sort of alliance and thus be stronger at European level. Everyone is aware that it is not so obvious to move in this case, but we must not let that happen. You are again talking about the full suite with which you are moving to Europe to negotiate with a number of countries at risk and to convince them that a number of measures are now really insisting. We support this and hope that it will be effectively implemented in the short term. It seems clear to us all that workers should be posted because of their skills and expertise, not because they are much cheaper. We are already learning from a communication from the Confederation of Construction yesterday, which talks with French colleagues, that you can indeed form alliances. There are certainly partners to find to set things in motion. I am not saying that you will fall into that trap, but I repeat that we must be careful not only to look at Europe. We must not forget to sweep at our own door. The fragmentation of inspection services and fragmentary inspections are a problem, although we must be careful not to create a witch hunt for bona fide businesses. I think we're on the same page in that respect. Furthermore, I am particularly pleased to hear that we share the same view of the system errors in the working country principle and that an initiative needs to be taken as a matter of urgency. It is indeed scandalous to note that there is a procedure, but that it is not used for any reason. Given the scope and the seriousness of the problem, I think you should become a trendsetter with your European colleagues to get the wheel running.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, I realise that social fraud is a complex problem that needs to be addressed at federal, regional and European level and also at Benelux level. You have also given a long explanation of the measures involved. I also understand that the collection of information has gone a lot the wrong way and that complaints end up at different levels. I'm glad you're going to centralize the information collection at a hotline. In the case of the construction company, however, there is a very clear case. It is a clear conscience and the inspection is well informed. One cannot say that it is not known. We know that rules are being violated in the field of posting and the conditions relating to temporary work. That company's been active for six years. However, we seem to be unable to stop the company. Our procedures, especially in the courts, may sometimes take a long time, but this is a case that the inspection has known for a long time. My question was, therefore, how is it that we are unable to respond in the shorter term to a case known to the inspection, to which everyone is looking, which other employers say is being unfair competition and which the trade unions say is being exploited? That can't take six years, can it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u12	Mr Secretary of State, what will you do about Polish Tradesman Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u13	Mrs Lanjri, I hope you do not blame me for the fact that nothing has happened in the last six years. I've only been working for four months, and I've only just been able to do my field analysis. I have already understood that we have to deal with it in a different way. In practice, however, such situations are usually not so simple. When one acts, one asks for documents and cooperation from the home country to check whether or not some cases are in order. I admit that there is a lack of cooperation with the home countries. If such a dossier is to be dealt with, certain European rules must also be observed. From the gut feeling one can, of course, do this also wonder how this is possible in the name of God. The fact that the situation has been dragging on for six years alone shows that it is rather complex and that it is not easy to act. Nevertheless, I asked my services to take even stricter action in this matter and speed things up. I believe that a number of elements of my action plan on social dumping can help to speed up this in the future. Given the ongoing investigation, I can't give you any details. It is very important that we can count on the cooperation of the Member States from which the workers or the self-employed come. There is, by the way, a big difference when it comes to employees or self-employed persons. I must first have proof that they are not employees, because Europe is very rigid in this. Under European rules, I am not allowed to impose requirements on self-employed persons. The country in which people work must not impose obstacles. I believe that you are right about the file quoted. It must be faster, we must act more efficiently and there must be much more cooperation. I have a laundry list of measures. To put it very concretely, I refer to what was agreed this morning between the various authorities. I called a meeting this morning with only the social partners, the trade unions and the employers. My administration and my inspections will also be present at the next meeting, not only to make very clear agreements, but also to evaluate how a number of things are handled. There will therefore be a tripartite consultation between trade unions, employers and the inspection of a more efficient approach to concrete dossiers in the future. In general, I have three fronts on which to work. First of all, you must be absolutely right, Mr Raskin, to take immediate action at Belgian level. I have received a list from both trade unions and employers. We will not waste any time debating proposals on which there is no consensus, but we will immediately implement at Belgian level the measures on which there is consensus. Secondly, I have already explained in detail the Benelux-plus level. By the way, I'm doing a lot of work on that. I believe that at European level, too, we must send out a number of signals that we must have the cooperation of Europe and the home countries in order to find solutions. Thirdly, as far as Belgium is concerned, we need to work on the important yard monitoring and inspection. You are right on that point, Mrs Lanjri. It is also necessary to simplify procedures. We always want new measures and laws, but they are so complex that they are not verifiable, let alone enforceable. That's what I'm trying to do. I want simple procedures, which are easy to control and easy to implement. Finally, we absolutely need to work on the exchange of information. A great deal of progress has already been made in this respect. I am talking about the exchange of information at Belgian level between the various services and the social fraud hotline or, as one might call it, the single point or contact, my stick horse. Data from the field can be combined with data from our social inspection services via data mining and data mixing. If companies work below the price level, my inspection services cannot automatically know. They do, however, see in the social security databases whether or not social contributions are paid. They also see that there is economic unemployment of Belgian workers, who can then be replaced by foreign workers. They can see all that through data mining. I therefore urge both the majority parties and the opposition once again to establish such a hotline. I had the debate in Parliament during the previous parliamentary term. Everyone agreed it should be there. But everyone did find a reason not to install it. However, the measure is really crucial in tackling social dumping. In other words, we must work together on three fronts, in terms of control, inspection and simplification. With regard to simplification, I forgot to mention that we need to evaluate certain systems. For example, we need to examine whether the labour relations law still works efficiently and produces results. Mrs Lanjri, I know that there is a lot of work to be done for me. There's a heavy burden on my shoulders.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u14	Mr Secretary of State, I would just like to add a fourth point to your three points, namely that there must also be action. You're talking about control and inspection, which is good. When everything is known, the company in question must also stop unregulatoryly employing employees. That is a shared responsibility, not only of politics but of course of justice. We must act on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u15	Mrs Lanjri, cooperation with the courts is good.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u16	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, although my question was submitted on 15 September, it remains topical, perhaps even more so than ever. Two weeks ago, my question finally appeared on the agenda, but then I was sick. At the beginning of September, the Brussels Attorney General Delmull stated that he wanted to tackle the benefits of Syrian fighters. The Federal Police responded by saying that it has been working intensively for 14 months to address the problem and that benefits have been recovered. In the meantime, this amount would amount to EUR 90 000. According to the RVA, thirty-five of the seventy Antwerp young people who left for Syria would be subject to unjustified benefits. It is now known that not only Antwerp is confronted with Syrians, but that it has become a Belgian problem since young people have left different cities. As a result, I have a number of questions. Does the sanctioning of social fraud in Syria fighters depend on local initiatives such as those of the Antwerp federal police or have general guidelines been given on this issue covering the whole country? It would be useful if the same method were used throughout the country. The RVA has already communicated its initiatives in the fight against these abuses. Will other public services, such as the RKW and the RIZIV, follow the same line? Will they also recover unduly paid benefits? What is the amount of money to be recovered? How often were those involved subpoenaed? What amounts have been effectively recovered in the meantime? How many convictions have been issued to recover those amounts?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u17	Mr Secretary of State, Mrs Lanjri, with regard to your first question, in particular whether the Antwerp approach is a local initiative or whether general guidelines have been issued from the parquet, it seems to me appropriate that the Ministers for the Interior and Justice should give an explanation of their own motion. It is, of course, clear that the government wants to pursue an integrated approach to radicalisation and terrorism. This, of course, transcends the functioning of the different levels of policy and departments. Its coordination is in the hands of, among other things, the newly established National Security Council. As far as my specific competence is concerned, the fight against fraud in relation to social benefits, I can tell you that the right to social benefits is always conditional. It is essential that a person receiving a benefit has a main place of residence in Belgium and is also effectively resident in Belgium. This is the case with unemployment benefits, which must remain available for the labour market and must also actively seek employment. In practice, I know that this is also the case for family allowances, for example. A person receiving child benefit must stay in the host country unless there is a reason for staying abroad, such as taking an internship or participating in the Erasmus project. Otherwise, if you go abroad, you will lose the benefit. I have had discussions on this with the various services and it is true that all the institutions concerned are constantly checking whether the beneficiaries do meet these conditions. This is usually done in cooperation with pay institutions and regional employment services. As you know, in many cases unemployment benefits are still paid by the trade unions. This is also done through the exchange of electronic data and the consultation of external and internal databases. Let me illustrate this in the following example. My proposal to do data mining on residential fraud on the basis of energy consumption has given rise to a lot of dust. However, when a Syrian warrior leaves, it is quite logical that there will be little or no energy consumption in the house where he is supposedly dominated. A very good way to determine whether a person is still entitled to a social benefit is to check whether the person concerned is actually still living at the address and thus using energy. I think it's all being controlled in a good way. As for the figures, in 2014, twelve cases were reported by the Financial Information Processing Cell to the King's Attorney for financing terrorism. Social benefits were found in those files. For the cases reported in 2014, we arrive at a total amount of 172 617 euros. In 2013, it was 168 330 euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u18	For those 12 cases alone?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u19	That's right, for the 12 cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u20	Then you haven't got all of them yet. There are still more than 12 Syrian fighters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u21	On the basis of its analysis of financial transactions, the Financial Information Processing Cell reported 12 cases to the King's Attorney. In these cases, social benefits were paid and in 2014 total EUR 172 617. It is unfairly paid benefits, and I do not want to say that they were also recovered. The total amount is comparable to that of 2013, i.e. EUR 168 330.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u22	I also asked whether, and if so, what amount was recovered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u23	I don't have that information. (...) The amounts were reported, but I do not have any information regarding their recovery.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u24	It concerns a large amount, on the one hand, but only twelve cases, on the other. I suspect there will be more than 12 cases between all those Syrian fighters. It could be about family allowances, unemployment benefits or OCMW benefits. There may also be Syrian fighters who did not receive any benefits. In any case, twelve cases seem to me to be very little, and I think that is just the tip of the iceberg. I hope that every Syrian warrior will be effectively examined to see whether they receive some kind of benefit and whether they can be recovered. It is two-fold: the payment must be stopped and the undue payments must be recovered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u25	I do not have specific statistics for these young people. I have no separate statistics for Syrian fighters in my follow-up tables. Besides, not all Syrian warriors collect unjust benefits. In any case notified, an investigation shall be opened, subject to the approval of the Labour Auditorate, and any benefits unduly paid may be recovered. That's where my authority stops. I am investigating social fraud, I report a number of abuses, and then it comes to the Justice Department and the Labour Auditorate, which may follow the case further. If there is a need to go back, it is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. I'm not authorized to do that. Some institutions, such as the RVA, can be recovered directly, but other institutions must be recovered through the Minister of Finance. Of the number of people who have already been subpoenaed and sentenced, I have requested the statistics from the Department of Justice, but I have not yet received them. I do not therefore have this information at my disposal at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u26	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u27	It concerns twelve cases reported to the King's Attorney for financing terrorism by the Financial Data Processing Cell.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u28	Mr Secretary of State, the law of 25 August 2012 increased the fight against bogus self-employment. That law identified certain fraud-sensitive sectors, including the construction sector, and introduced a rebuttable legal presumption of a contract of employment on the basis of nine defined criteria. (...) The law also allowed the sectors to further develop or replace these criteria through an KB if necessary. By way of the Royal Decree of 7 June 2013, the construction sector, together with other sectors operating in the real estate sector, also used this possibility to provide for specific criteria. The Royal Decree entered into force on 5 July 2013. This change in the law also considerably strengthened the impact of the inspection. A legal presumption of contract of employment was introduced if more than half of the criteria laid down were met; if less than half of the criteria were met, there was a presumption of self-employment. I would have liked to ask the following questions. How many checks on bogus self-employment have been carried out specifically in the construction sector since the Royal Decree of 5 July 2013? How many cases of false self-employment have been effectively identified in these checks? How many checks were there? How many cases of false self-employment have been identified in these checks? What amount of regularisation of RSZ contributions did these checks result in construction? To what extent will these controls be adjusted or increased in 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u29	Mrs Lanjri, I have just announced that we will have to evaluate this law in order to see if it effectively achieves its objective. You yourself say that there are nine criteria. These are all rather complex investigations that need to be carried out. I recently asked for an investigation into the status of Uber, the taxi service that wants to offer its services in Brussels. The question is whether employees are self-employed or voluntary. It takes a long time for these investigations to be carried out. It is also not a mathematical calculation to be made, since the law of 25 August 2012 asks for a rebuttable presumption. This presumption may be refuted by any means of law based on general criteria laid down in the same law. It therefore requires considerable time spent. I cannot tell you how many checks have been carried out correctly. However, I can tell you that in the period from July 2013 to November 2014, a few months ago, 155 cases of bogus self-employment were identified in the construction sector, for an amount of EUR 5 571 800 in social contributions. In my policy statement, I said that I wanted to continue the fight against bogus self-employment, including with regard to bogus workers. I now announce that today, with my colleague, Mr Borsus, who also mentioned the whole construction sector, I have asked for this to be evaluated as laid down by law, in order to make the legislation simpler and more transparent, so that we can monitor it more easily. The inspection services have pointed out to me that enforcement is very difficult: the combination of specific criteria for certain sectors of activity and the possibility of rebuttal make this very difficult to apply on the ground and make it all unclear. After all, the interviews of these workers in bogus status take a very long time and, moreover, there is a constant need for interpretation. Together with Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Borsus, I will ask the General Management Committee for the Social Status of the Self-employed and the National Labour Council to evaluate this law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u30	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State. I will closely monitor the evaluation and then we will see what can happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u31	Mr President, Secretary of State, the Programme Act of 29 March 2012 introduced the system of joint and several liability for wage debts. This became applicable in the construction sector from 1 September 2013 through a KB. In the implementation of that legislation, principals who rely on one or more contractors for certain works and who were informed in writing by the inspection that their contractors or subsequent subcontractors do not pay the minimum sectoral wages shall be jointly and severally liable for the payment of employees' wages. This joint and several liability is not direct. Where the inspection finds a serious infringement with a contractor, a 14-day regularisation period shall be granted to the contraaing authority or the contraaor upon written notification of the infringement. The liability of the contraaing authority or the contraaor may not enter into force until the expiry of that period of 14 days. If the infringement was established after that fourteen days, the joint and several liability shall apply for a maximum period of one year. Moreover, the joint and several liability applies only to the services provided from that date. The law thus determines no effect on the past. This law therefore offers a lot of escape routes in relation to joint and several liability by introducing that time limit of 14 days. For example, if the staff who are underpaid is transferred to another company, under the same group, within a period of 14 days, then suddenly there is no more joint and several liability. The European Directive 2014/67 of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe of 15 May 2014 on the Posting of Workers Directive provides for a number of options and obligations related to liability in the event of subcontracting in respect of the payment of minimum wages. This Directive should be transposed into national law by 18 June 2016 at the latest. In this sense, it may be an opportunity to make things right in the future. My questions are as follows. How many written notifications have been made in construction in the last calendar year? In how many cases, as a result, were regularised in time, within fourteen days? Do you want to deal with these abuses? How do you want to do this? What adjustments are you thinking of? Do you foresee a possible extension of these principles to other sectors? Now we are dealing with fraud-sensitive sectors. We have already argued in the past for an extension of this joint and several liability in other sectors. When will the directive be transposed into Belgian law, if we know that the deadline is 18 June 2016 anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u32	Mr President, in my consultation with Mrs Thyssen and my colleague, Mr Peeters, I asked for the enforcement directive to be transposed as soon as possible. That was also confirmed by the Peeters' Cabinet this morning. We want to be an example in Europe. I know we still have a lot of time left, but the agreement between Mr Peeters and myself is that we will transpose that into Belgian law as soon as possible. I must tell you, however, that Belgian legislation already meets the enforcement directive in many areas, including the Limosa notification and the joint and several liability of wages debts. We will transpose that enforcement directive into Belgian law as soon as possible. So you can expect one of the months. Since the entry into force of the generic system of joint and several liability for pay debts on 1 September 2013, the General Executive Board has conducted a comprehensive campaign in a number of risk sectors to explain the system thoroughly and properly. The TSW will initially focus on spontaneous wage regulation by the negligent employer himself. It is almost always about foreign service providers. In three out of four cases, such regularisation is also carried out without problems, whether or not by using certain means of printing, such as the temporary seizure of outstanding invoices from the employer-debtor, in the hands of a co-contractor. Sometimes the co-contractor is also willing to postpone payment of the invoice. The investigation itself often reveals to the potentially jointly and severally liable contractor that he is taking risks once the inspection will proceed to the effective notification. Therefore, there is often no waiting-out and pressure is exerted by the contractor on its subcontractor to make the payment of wages by TSW within the prescribed time limit. In this way, there should not always be a proper procedure. A notification as provided for in the law is only delivered in practice when all other measures of conviction, pressure or coercion failed. Today 45 official notifications were delivered by TSW. These were followed by regularisations in more than half of the cases. In a number of cases, the agreement with the subcontractor was effectively broken, some disputes were brought before the labour court and about ten cases were not followed up because the subcontractor had left with the northern sun and he withdrew from the follow-up checks, resulting in a pro-justitia for obstruction of supervision. In the latter cases, it is very difficult to recover the wages due from the jointly and severally liable party if the latter has broken the contractual links immediately after the notification. However, the law does indeed have its effect, even if only as a potential deterrent effect. As you have no doubt read in my action plan, I will continue to consult with the various sectors, such as the construction sector this morning, to see how we will develop, maintain or adjust the evaluation of the system of joint and several liability for wage debts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u33	I believe that it is indeed very useful to hold further discussions on this matter and to continue with it. Perhaps it is a deterrent for some of them and they are interrupting their work, but they may as well start over under another name. The abuses can continue in this way. So we also need to do that to avoid starting over the next day, possibly under a different name. I hope that you will do so together with the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u34	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in November 2014 you announced that you would like to strengthen controls at the level of fictitious housing. Some people abuse isolated status to benefit from benefits to which they would not normally be entitled. Among the measures you announced, there was a first line of careful analysis of the gas, water and electricity consumption data of so-called isolated people. You wanted to be able to see if they live well where they live or if they don't live with someone. There has been a lifting of shields, some disagreeing with this way of working. Today, in the Walloon Region, a pilot study was initiated by the Centre d'Études en Habitat durable, which examined the census of this water and electricity consumption in Charleroi in order to identify unoccupied dwellings. It has been found that there are 10,800 dwellings which are thus deemed unoccupied. That's quite challenging! Secretary of State, where are you in relation to what you announced in 2014? To avoid duplication in the work to be done, could collaboration with the Walloon Region be considered for the sharing of this data? If this is possible, how could it be done? I believe that this shows that this is practically possible and would help to avoid serious social fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u35	Dear colleague, I have learned that the Walloon Minister of Housing, Paul Furlan, mentioned in late January, in response to parliamentary questions, 10,853 underutilized dwellings and therefore potentially available in the City of Charleroi. This number was determined as a result of a pilot project aimed at detecting unoccupied dwellings on the basis of water and electricity consumption in the 15 old municipalities which now constitute the City of Charleroi. However, consumer records are not only used to detect empty housing, they can also be used as indicators to better identify home fraud. Isolated people benefit from a higher social benefit than cohabitants. This difference favours this type of fraud. Some social insured persons declare a fictitious address, they receive a larger allowance. The consolidation of our social protection, strong for the future, means that we must ban such abuses as far as possible. That's also my ambition. For the sake of completeness, I would like to point out that payment agencies have significantly increased the number of checks compared to previous years. I am convinced that such frauds can be detected even better thanks to data matching and data mining techniques. We are already seeing, for example, at ONEM, an increase in the number of investigations into infringements and an increase in the amounts to be recovered thanks to an even more extensive cross-checking of information from the various databases, in particular those of the National Register. As a result, verification of addresses and household compositions is increasingly targeted. I am convinced that we can still optimize this method. During the previous legislature, a legal basis was adopted for the competent bodies to provide the authorities with data on consumers of water, gas and electricity. This legislation has not yet entered into force. In the interests of privacy, which I also consider to be an important file, it would be appropriate to verify automatically, as is done in the Netherlands, whether the data correspond to the address of the home. It is not a question of organising a witch hunt among the beneficiaries of allowances, but of activating indicators on the basis of which the examination of these data can be further explored. This means targeted checks on suspected fraudsters while leaving honest recipients alone. In the long run, we should be able to move towards automatic granting of social rights, on the one hand, and to carry out automatic preventive checks on the cumulation of rights, on the other. It's closing the front door! I am all the more strengthened in my conviction in view of the figures. The ONEM alone would recover 33 million euros for 2013, but as you know, this recovery is very difficult. We can't mow an egg! In 2012, this amount amounted to 24 million, an increase of almost 10 million for 2013. In my policy statement, I also made it clear that a better fight against fraud also involves, in addition to the federal authority, the association of the Regions and local administrations in order to be able to better combat, among other things, home fraud. Home fraud is also occurring at the regional level, for example in the social housing sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u36	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. You've already provided me with a lot of information about your intentions. I will pay attention to this particularly important area. As you have said, exercising targeted and upstream controls will allow - not to start a witch hunt - but to be effective and not to have to recover later money that will be irrecoverable; your action will prevent the expense.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u37	Mr Janssen could not be present and his question therefore lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u38	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, on Tuesday 27 January, Horeca Flanders took action against the accompanying measures for the registered register. The need for a registered cash register is not called into question, but the practical implementation is more difficult for many catering operators than thought. They face different problems. Anyone who obtains more than 10% of the turnover from prepared meals must report spontaneously through the well-known website before 28 February. The number of registrations of catering shops has so far been small. At the end of January, the counter was only at 3 000. This means that there are 37 000 restaurants to go. On your website, you announced on 3 February that 1 009 restaurants have already been registered in West Flanders and that your province is the leader. Congratulations. Together with your colleague Elke Sleurs, you proposed a detailed catering note at the Council of Ministers. That did happen after I put my question to you. Your website states that the white checkout will not be introduced until all additional measures included in the federal government agreement are effective. By 2016, the white cash register would have been completely introduced into the sector. Mr Secretary of State, do you have any more recent figures? How many restaurants per province still have to register? How do you think the white checkout accompanying measures can be financed? Through additional government revenue or through other measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u39	Mr President, Mrs Van Hoof, I will give you the list of the situation on 6 February. Then there were 4 891 applications. For the record, in West Flanders there were 1 189 applications. My province was still frontrunner. This morning I received the most recent figures and I suspect that the counter is now at 6,000. Between 6 and 11 February there were more than a thousand. Last week the pace was between 200 and 250 per day and now the cruising speed was reached from about 300 to 400 per day. Unfortunately, I cannot tell you how many more registrations are required. We do not have the right idea. We only have a suspicion of the number of catering shops. There are about 55 000 catering shops and we know that there are about 125 000 staff. We can only estimate the number of hospitality stores and the number of hospitality stores required to register under the legislation, which stipulates that there is a registration requirement if more than 10% of the turnover is withdrawn from food. Estimates vary and range from 35 000 to 40 000 cases which should in principle be registered. This means that we are currently achieving 10%. Last night, people on the ground told me that they would definitely register this week or next week. I think this is important. As far as the financing of accompanying measures is concerned, you know that the government agreement clearly sets out a number of measures. Also in the note which was submitted to the Council of Ministers on Friday, we included a number of additional measures, in consultation with the sector and the government, particularly with regard to fixed contracts in the catering sector. In that note there is a sentence that is very clear in that regard, in particular that we are financing all the additional measures that may be taken with the additional public revenue that the white cash registers will generate realistically. We are not immediately putting forward concrete cuts in the burden on the catering industry, but mainly flexibility measures, which are aimed at making all black hours official. If we are trying to regulate fixed contracts, it is mainly because we do not want competition between casual work and fixed contracts, but also because many people are employed in the catering industry today with part-time contracts, while in practice they work full-time. I do not make any big comments on this because we have to deal with the various issues within the majority. However, it is about overtime and fixed contracts. We do not want to get into a situation in which catering businesses replace their permanent staff with part-time flexi-jobs included in the government agreement. We still have a long way to go. It's happening really fast now. The last digit is about 6,000. I notice that there is still some work to be done in your province, Mrs Van Hoof. However, I have good hope that in the next two weeks a lot of people will register at a rapid pace. I would like to add a small note. Those who do not register remain subject to the checks that are already taking place today. It is quite logical that we should not concentrate on those who have given a clear signal that they want to cooperate and register. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u40	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. I believe that there is still a great deal to be done, including the development of the various measures within a certain time frame. If I'm not mistaken, this is the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u41	On October 1st, most things must be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u42	A number of other measures are also possible. As former vessels of catering in the city of Leuven, the longest bar in the country, I know what problems the catering industry has to deal with. It is not an obvious matter to exploit a catering business, not even in Leuven. There are more and more catering shops, which means that more and more people from other sectors are seeking refuge in the hospitality industry. The fact that they do not derive the most revenue from this is sufficiently demonstrated by discussions with those concerned. In any case, I support the measures that you have already worked out today. Of course, further measures are possible if the proceeds from the white checkout become clear. It is a good thing that about one fifth of the catering shops have already been registered. By 28 February, about half of them should be registered. Once the revenue is known, the measures can be applied as extensively as possible. The catering industry needs these measures. This is also the case in other sectors, but I know that there is a very specific problem in the catering sector. The people of the sector admit that today it is no longer possible to achieve sufficient returns and to maintain them. I would therefore like to give our full support to a sector which everyone in Belgium loves as a bourgonian and which guarantees the viability of our cities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u43	You speak to a bourgonian, Mrs. Van Hoof. I would like to make one small comment. We must all submit our capital declarations by 31 March. I haven't done it yet. Since we politicians are all waiting until the last moment to submit our asset statement, I hope that there are a lot of catering operators waiting until the last moment to register.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u44	Unfortunately, we are still unable to make this statement of assets electronically, because this has to be done by post.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u45	The CD&V has submitted a legislative proposal in this area. Perhaps you should support this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u46	We have signed this bill. Many people are still needed to process these paper returns, but this is how jobs are created, and that is what we need to do, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u47	Mr Raskin, I would like to point out that our dear fellow Members of the Committee on CD&V Bill No. 314 to that effect. I have just heard that the proposal will be discussed at the sitting on Wednesday 25 February in the afternoon. In the legislative proposal, the CD&V colleagues propose that the payment of the salary should be made to the account in future and no longer in cash. Is that right? (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u48	Personally, I find it a very interesting bill. I am very curious to see what the Secretary of State will say about this. Mr Raskin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u49	Mr Secretary of State, my question concerns the minimum wage. I am making a comparison with the Netherlands which recently launched a new measure in the fight against social fraud. From the beginning of 2015, the salary may no longer be paid in full in cash. Part of the salary, i.e. that which is at least equal to the statutory minimum wage, has to be paid in the future. Also, employers are no longer allowed to apply adjustments to the minimum wage. In this way, the evasion of the statutory minimum wage can be combated more effectively. Is there a similar problem of evasion in Belgium? If so, do you consider a measure similar to that in the Netherlands desirable? Let that be a stepping stone to the debate that will take place later this month.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I will make the chairman of this committee happy, because I am basically in favour of any measure aimed at reducing cash payments in favour of non-cash or electronic transactions. I therefore support, from my position and to the extent that I can and may do so, the CD&V bill, but unfortunately I have nothing to say in that regard. Mr President, I assume you will defend that in my place. Transferable transactions are not only cheaper, because they are automated, but they are also safer, more reliable, more efficient, more manageable and less susceptible to fraud than cash payments. Until there, the Secretary of State spoke for the fight against fraud. Mr Raskin, in your question you refer to a measure which is part of the Act Approach Schijnconstructuurs, which is an effect of a social agreement reached in our neighbour, the Netherlands. The Dutch authorities intend to use this law to prevent exploitation and unfair competition in the labour market. The Dutch Government has already agreed to a bill. Now the Council of State of the Kingdom of the Netherlands will examine it and deliver an opinion on it. If the Dutch law Aanpak Schijnconstructuurs soon comes into force, the salary may no longer be paid in full in cash in the Netherlands and at least the salary part equal to the statutory minimum wage must be transferred. In this way, the government wants to combat the evasion of the legal minimum wage more effectively. At a previous committee meeting, I said that the Visa affair in Antwerp would never have come to light without the use of Visa cards. In fact, the first measure should be that any city administration should require the use of cards rather than the use of cash. In our country pay must be made in accordance with the rules laid down in Article 5 of the Law of 12 April 1965, which is thus already an old law, almost would be old if I were to protect the wages of workers, as amended by Law of 26 June 1992. The payout is either hand-to-hand or in grail money. In case of hand-to-hand payment, the employer must submit a receipt to the employee for signature. The payment in cash can only be made if the employee agrees in writing and with each final payment a statement is given to the employee. In addition, the employer must draw up an individual annual account for each employee he employs. So that's a lot of paperwork. This document shall indicate on an annual basis all benefits paid by the employee and the wages paid. These two documents allow the Labour Inspectorate to verify compliance with minimum standards. There are therefore no problems with regard to Belgian employment relations. In some cases, it is less obvious to verify whether the remuneration of posted foreign workers was paid correctly. If this gives rise to problems, these problems are often solved by relying on the cooperation of the enforcement authorities of the sending country, often through the IMI system, the Internal Market Information System, which checks the authenticity of a signed-off cash payment. Since returning posted workers were willing to make statements to the authorities of the sending country, fraud cases have already been detected in the past. In the area of social fraud, paying wages in full in cash could provide more clarity on the wage paid to posted workers. It could also help to prevent falsehood in writing and scam. In other words, I am certainly not against it. It could also help to address evidence problems that often arise in cases where no payment receipt was delivered. At first glance, extrapolating the Dutch scheme, more specifically for posted workers from abroad, seems particularly useful. However, the question arises as to whether such a measure complies with European law, since the agreed method of pay may be an agreement between the employee and the employer in the sending country. Thus, breaking this agreement could be regarded as a violation of the principle of the free movement of persons and services. So it could be very useful, but we might run the risk of Europe saying that it is an obstacle. I will, in good cooperation with my colleague, Kris Peeters, in the framework of the Social Fraud Action Plan, examine whether we can implement this in Belgian legislation. So we are going to try to do something about that. I just need to examine, together with my colleague Mr Peeters, whether this is not contrary to European law. If that is not the case, we are going to do it like the Dutch.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic091x.u51	Mr Secretary of State, I think we all want to achieve the same thing. We must conduct the consultation with the Deputy Prime Minister and hope that we will not be able to circumvent Europe's yoke in a negative way, which sometimes still has perverse consequences.
