ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic159x.u1	Question No 3581, 3715, 34, all of Mrs Pas are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic159x.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to return to the decision taken by your government on 16 January, in the shadow of the foiled terrorist attack in Verviers. The government then announced 12 anti-terrorism measures. A number of legislative initiatives were also envisaged. I remember from the debate at the time when it was a matter of days or weeks before Parliament would be presented with draft legislation. Today we are three and a half months away. What is the state of play in the development of these 12 anti-terrorist measures? My second element is this. I have just come from a meeting in which at Flemish level, both the government and Parliament, measures were discussed about anti-radicalism and anti-terrorism. Both internationally and locally, at Flemish and federal level, the emphasis is placed on the importance of local engagement, of local authorities and local police zones to detect, map and address radicalism, both from the point of view of security and social policy. In this respect, consensus is growing. With a lot of driving, there are still concerns every day about finding the right method or approach and certainly the right tools to detect, map, tackle and social support radicalism. Hence my next questions. What is the state of play in the development of the twelve measures announced by the government? I've looked in my mailbox feverishly repeatedly. However, I have not yet seen any of the draft laws announced on 16 January. What progress has been made on the revision of the Foreign Fighters Directive? As you know, in the previous legislature, too, this directive has caused a great deal of trouble for mayors who have been confronted with the problem. Across party boundaries, it was already asked to review the directive very quickly and thoroughly. The review was announced, and confirmed by the Minister of the Interior, for the weeks after the 16th January. What is the status of the adjustment? It is crucial to define exactly who is responsible for what. The shortcomings in the Foreign Fighters Directive still cause problems. I shall then come to a third element. In my response, I said that it would be better to give the appropriate answers to all together, across party boundaries and policy levels in a democratic way. I'm sticking to that opinion. I have also added that, of course, this requires a thirteenth measure, in particular the support of local authorities and police areas faced with the problem of potential terrorism, foreign fighters or radicalism. In this respect, we have only been told that budgetary control was on the way and that resources would be made available for security policy. I have already heard from a number of ministers what they will be used for, but one tries to claim exactly more quickly than the other. The question is where is the clarity of the political promise that effective support would be given to police areas and local authorities affected by the problem? Finally, Prime Minister, this. I have made it clear to you at a certain point what dysfunctions in the area of justice can lead to in the area of terrorist violence. These dysfunctions have been tried to tackle here and there. I very much appreciate the efforts made by the magistrates in this area to create consultation platforms across police zones and arrondissements as part of the succession of returned jihadists. I am grateful for that. However, not all dysfunctions have yet been removed. This is also about very worrying dysfunctions where, for example, in a police zone like Vilvoorde, no information is given about returned jihadists because they are accompanied by the justice house in Brussels. Understand who can! I am not going to say much about this to not create too much unrest, but the dysfunction is in any case obvious. I've already questioned the Minister of Justice about this. He referred in his reply to you, the Minister for the Interior, or to Minister Vandeurzen, because since January, the justice houses have been a Flemish responsibility. However, it is a fact that the risk derivatives on the field remain present. My final question is therefore what measures have been taken to eliminate the dysfunctions in the Justice Department. I look forward to your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic159x.u3	Mr President, Mr Bonte, I will try to answer all the questions as precisely as possible. As far as the twelve measures announced are concerned, the following. Firstly, the addition of a non-terrorist offence to the Criminal Code, in particular the relocation for terrorist purposes. The draft law to strengthen the fight against terrorism was submitted to the Council of Ministers for the first time. The Council of State, the College of Attorneys General and the Privacy Commission have given their advice. A modified draft is being drawn up which will be submitted to the Council of Ministers at second reading before being delivered to Parliament in the coming weeks. Secondly, the extension of the list of offences giving rise to the use of special detection methods. That is the famous Article 90b of the Code of Criminal Procedure. This enlargement is contained in the draft law to strengthen the fight against terrorism, whose impact and investigation at government level are almost complete. Thirdly, the extension of the possibility of withdrawing nationality. The question is addressed in the draft law aimed at strengthening the fight against terrorism, whose impact and investigation at government level are almost complete. The Council of State gave an opinion on 24 March 2015. The Public Prosecutor's Office shall examine to what extent the opinion requires an adaptation of the preliminary draft. A new interkabinette consultation is expected in the coming weeks. Fourthly, the withdrawal of the identity card of persons who pose a risk to public policy or security. The preliminary draft law on the temporary withdrawal of the identity card was submitted to the Council of Ministers on 6 February 2015. The advice of the Privacy Commission was requested. The text of the preliminary draft law is currently before the Council of State for its opinion. That is what we are waiting for. The text on the temporary withdrawal of the passport was adopted by the Council of Ministers at first reading on 6 February. On 19 February, the Privacy Commission received the advisory question. The advice of the Privacy Commission was given on 25 February. The Council of State's opinion was given on 31 March, but was not communicated to us until 27 April. The Foreign Office is currently examining this opinion. Fifthly, the implementation of the freezing of national funds. A working group, composed of the Prime Minister's Cabinets, Justice and Finance, the relevant administration and the OCAD, is currently working out the procedure for inclusion in the national list on the basis of the Royal Decree of 28 December 2006. The role of all actors must be determined in order to achieve an efficient system that respects fundamental freedoms. Sixth, revised the circular foreign fighters. The revision of the circular letter is in the final phase and will be presented together with a new plan R at the end of May. Seventhly, information exchange. A working group will be set up on the optimal use of information in judicial files in the context of administrative action. Discussions aimed at improving the use of judicial information are currently taking place in the context of the work on three different measures, namely the refusal to issue a passport for persons manifesting a substantial risk to public order or public security, the implementation of the Royal Decree of 28 December 2006 on the administrative freezing of assets of persons suspected of terrorism and the draft law repealing the identity card. Eighthly, the revision of the R plan is being speeded up. The Ministers for the Interior and Justice have started work on the revision of the R Plan. Consultations with the services have also begun. Ninthly, the approach to radicalisation in prisons. On 11 March, the Minister of Justice presented his action plan on tackling radicalisation in prisons. Tenth, the reform of the Ministerial Committee on Intelligence and Security in the National Security Council. The KB establishing the National Security Council was announced on 28 January 2015. In principle, the National Security Council meets on a monthly basis. 11th, the army's stakes. As you could see, the army is deployed in certain strategic locations in our streets for specific security orders. So the army strengthens our security level wherever and whenever necessary. Twelve, the transfer of 55 protection assistants from state security to federal police. The Justice and Home Affairs Ministers are finalising the legislative texts to regulate the transfer. As regards budgetary resources for the local areas where radicalisation is a problem, we have paid particular attention to security issues in the context of budgetary control. Resources have been made available to strengthen the services of the federal police involved in radicalisation and terrorism. This provides additional staff for the antenna Terror, the DSU, the Computer Crime Units and the agents involved in strengthening border controls. Moreover, investment budgets are allocated to provide the federal police with the necessary modern tools to carry out their work properly. In this way, the federal police will not only be able to handle its federal investigations in these matters better, but will also be able to better fulfil its support role vis-à-vis the local police. The federal police are supposed to have more resources, to give more support to the local police. I must add that the decision was taken to provide an envelope of EUR 200 million, with priority for security investments. This means that the Council of Ministers and the Ministers responsible have the opportunity to make concrete proposals. On this basis, the government and Minister Jambon have made decisions for our special units, such as more resources and more investment. We must remain very attentive to the returning jihadists, especially in places where there are many. The security of the State is very attentive and uses a lot of resources for this task. At the same time, we absolutely want to have a good dialogue with the local authorities, which was the intention of the local task force. At the initiative of the local authorities, in order to be able to work more efficiently, we decided to consult the local task force in Brussels and the municipalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic159x.u4	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your comprehensive reply. There is still a great deal to be done and that is somewhat different from the first communication. Nevertheless, I have the impression that the various elements are being worked on. Occasionally, we also witness public discussions with the majority on a number of issues, but that is not a disgrace. I am thinking here of discussions on the composition of the National Security Council and whether local authorities should be involved. I am also thinking of the debate on the withdrawal of identity cards and the permanent preparation of soldiers in the streets. So there are a lot of discussions going on. From the overview of the twelve measures, I would like to draw your attention to one more element. You refer to the guidelines on foreign fighters and the R plan which would have been drawn up before the end of May. In this constellation a discussion of these documents is somewhat difficult, because they are partly subject to confidentiality. In essence, it means that the powers will be defined. For example, we will know who takes responsibility at local level in relation to threat analysis. From there, the promise has come which I do not hear anymore to submit the draft directives on foreign fighters to the mayors affected by that problem. This commitment has been repeatedly announced, but I am not hearing it anymore. You can have your reasons for that. I just want to bring it to your attention. One can continue to wait for great misery to appear for the local authorities facing problems. I hear there are means to strengthen local police forces from a number of federal agencies. In my opinion, the needs of local police forces and local authorities to accurately monitor the radicalism problem should also include strengthening local authorities and police areas themselves, not just a back-up. I'll tell you what the situation in my city is like. We are unable to do the minimum for the succession of returned jihad fighters. There are some returning people in our city, including even someone who was released due to an incredibly administrative procedural error in Prince's prison. All efforts have been made to retain the person concerned on probation, but they have not been successful and we are unable to accurately monitor such persons. Either we wait together for great misery, or we have to do something effectively. I gave just a few examples, but I could give several others. I am aware that not only police follow-up is needed, but also others. And I am also aware that that responsibility does not lie directly with your government. At the very least, coherence should be sought in consultation with the other regional authorities. There too, however, it remains waiting for clear news. I'm gonna keep following up on this. I repeat that I am very pleased with the way in which we are trying to achieve this scaling-up for the Brussels context, with the federal prosecutor. However, the structural problem of an incomplete parquet in the edge remains. There is no argument as to why the 600 000 inhabitants of Halle-Vilvoorde should not have a fully-fledged public office. The same applies to the Court of Justice, and we are still hungry in this area too. I can also illustrate the fact that this leads to risks that society is better off not taking, by means of examples. I will continue to follow the twelve elements and I am sure we will see each other again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic159x.u5	I shall use the same procedure for the questions put by Mr Dallemagne, who is not present at the moment, as I have used for the questions put by Mr Hedebouw and Mr Delizée.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic159x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, my main question is to better assess the methodology followed by the National Security Council. I am not discussing here the advisability of the establishment of this body, which may have its raison d'être, even if certain aspects of its composition or tasks could have been further clarified. When I reread the royal decree of 28 January 2015, I find it somewhat short in its provisions but the body probably has some legitimacy as long as its methodology can be better appreciated. There may have been several meetings, but the information coming back to Parliament is not systematized. I can understand that there are aspects of confidentiality related to the fight against terrorism. I would have liked to know what a number of objectives were and, above all, the methodology. For example, what is the frequency of meetings of this National Security Council? Is it systematized? Is it the result of an alert system set up by one or the other monitoring body such as the OCAM? How far does the National Security Council have to play a role in assessing budgetary adjustments that benefit intelligence services and OCAM, which are known to require a reassessment of their budgetary capacity, including staff commitments? In your government statement, it is expected that the National Security Council will be involved in the preparation of the security framework note and will be consulted in the preparation of the policy. What is the status of the procedure for the preparation of this security framework note, which is a prerequisite for the national security plan? How far will representatives of local authorities and federated entities, whose presence is essential to ensure effective coordination between the different levels of power in the fight against terrorism, be involved in any way in the National Security Council? In its composition, the National Security Council does not include representatives of subordinate authorities or federated entities. Are there regular or specific consultation procedures? How far does the National Security Council retain discretion in relation to the advice given by the OCAM on the level of threat and, consequently, what you have estimated on the basis of this level of threat, in relation to the temporary deployment of the army? Does the National Security Council include its action and coordination in the implementation of the action plan of the European Union coordinator for the fight against terrorism, which was the subject of a plan approved by all Ministers of the Interior in March 2013? You see, therefore, that my questions are more about gathering information on methodology, objectives and initial results than about the appropriateness of policy decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic159x.u7	Mr President, Prime Minister, since its first meeting last February, the new National Security Council has been quite discreet. In March, it was he who endorsed the continuation of the threat level of 3 at certain locations and the accompanying military arrangement, following the recommendations of the OCAM. The press at the end of last week seems to say that the whole Council of Ministers took the necessary decisions to maintain these measures for the duration of May. I am pleased to be able to interview you, together with Mr. Maingain, with a view to taking stock of the entire scheme, its cost and its prospects for the future. As far as the Council's powers are concerned, can you tell us whether decisions concerning the maintenance of special security measures fall within its exclusive remit or whether they must be validated by the Council of Ministers as a whole, as the information of 30 April 2015 on the keeping of the military on the street suggests? Then, can you give us a picture of the cost of these operations for the various departments concerned? In particular, can you tell us what is charged to the Defence budget and what is charged to the Interior budget? In response to our last question on the subject, the Minister of the Interior told us that he was not in a position to draw up such a picture before April. Now that it has expired, are you able to give us a more accurate picture of it? With regard to the presence of the military on the street, we have been told that this mechanism will be maintained for the month of May, according to the same provisions as before. However, some aspects remain unclear. The answers we receive on the legal basis itself remain evasive. Some members of the government rely on the Constitution, taking a particularly broad definition of service to the Nation. Others refer to a convention between National Defence and the Interior, but it would ultimately only be a description of tasks and not a legal basis per se. What exactly is it? Similarly, we have been told on numerous occasions that this presence was limited to "fixed surveillance" and that there could be no question of patrolling. I have had the opportunity to benefit from it for the city of Liège and on these conditions we have asked for it. It must be noted, however, that if these patrols are carried out within a small area, it is indeed the rounds that organize around the places to be monitored. What exactly is it? We remain not concerned but at any rate attentive to what seems to settle as a structural mission, when it should only be a one-time support to the police, commanded by exceptional circumstances. Prime Minister, can you tell us more about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic159x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall try to clarify a number of points. As you mentioned, the Royal Decree of 28 January 2015 provides that the National Security Council is chaired by the Prime Minister and consists of the Ministers of Justice, Defence, the Interior, Foreign Affairs and the Deputy Prime Ministers. The Deputy Head of State Security, the Head of the General Service for Intelligence and Armed Forces Security (SGRS), the Commissioner General of the Federal Police, the Director of the Threat Analysis Coordinating Body (OCAM), the Chairman of the Internal FPS Steering Committee, a representative of the College of Attorneys General and the Federal Prosecutor attend meetings when required by the agenda. This therefore means that this composition is not systematic. Why did we act that way? Because, in the past, it has appeared that the composition of a large number of permanent members did not allow, on the basis of certain rules of confidentiality which are binding on the representatives of the authorities, to refer to all the subjects which were to be dealt with in that body. It was therefore by drawing lessons from the past that this composition, on the proposal of the services concerned, was rethought. Furthermore, the President of the Council may always, depending on the agenda, invite external persons in relation to situations which should be dealt with. Let us imagine that there is a risk of terrorist threats against nuclear power plants, and that experts in this area could be convened to share with us the conversations on this type of topic. What are the missions of the National Security Council? These include: the establishment of a general intelligence and security policy, its coordination and priority setting; the coordination of the fight against the financing of terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction; and the definition of a policy for the protection of sensitive information. Furthermore, the Council meets either at the initiative of the President – I have decided to organise a meeting at least every month – or at the initiative of one of the members who can always propose, depending on the needs, that a meeting be held. The assessment of the level of the threat is not done by the National Security Council, but it is the independent OCAM that defines the level of the threat. OCAM prepares an assessment of the threat and submits it to the National Security Council. It's not just a document for Levels 3 and 2. The aim is to explain to the National Security Council the elements, situations and motivations that led the OCAM to consider such a level of threat. That is what has already happened. The National Security Council has met on several occasions. I will give you some examples, but without going into detail, for obvious reasons. We have thus addressed the question of the follow-up of foreign fighters and returns. We also referred to the events in Verviers and discussed several measures that needed to be taken, based on the information that we had access to and that had been transmitted to us in the framework of this National Security Council. In terms of budgetary means, here are some pieces of information. During budgetary control, we have taken some steps - which we will discuss in Parliament - to strengthen the capacity of State Security. Six million euros of additional appropriations for staff have been made available. Furthermore, as the Minister of Justice has announced, we have set aside EUR 4 million for investments for State Security. We have also taken complementary decisions with regard, in particular, to the special police units, both in terms of human resources – 50 more people – and in terms of equipment and security of premises, which we felt was necessary. In addition, we have set aside a non-structural envelope for investments of EUR 200 million, which will be allocated primarily, but not exclusively, to security on the basis of requests, which will be sorted by the Council of Ministers after introduction by the ministers responsible for security. With regard to the comprehensive security framework note, as you know, it must provide the government with a strategic reference, a form of security policy framework. The aim is to develop an integral and integrated approach. In this regard, we wish to do this work in consultation with other levels of government. That is why the Interdepartmental Conference on Security should be able to provide the necessary input for the preparation of the document which we hope to validate before the end of the year. We also hope that, under the leadership of the Ministers of Justice and the Interior, local authorities can be represented in expert groups. We also intend to involve the Unions of Cities and Municipalities in this task. As I have just said, the aim is to have a strategic document before the end of the year. Mr Demeyer, I now turn to the question of the soldiers who have been mobilised. Indeed, we have taken this decision on the basis of a protocol between the Defence and the Integrated Police, which has been validated by the Council of Ministers. The army can only be deployed in support of the integrated police in the event of a high level of threat – level 3 – or in exceptional circumstances such that certain sites would be subject to at least level 3. It is indeed the OCAM, fed by the support service, which independently defines the level of the threat. We do not have the ability to change the level of the threat. Hence, sometimes, this confusion in the press. Defence commitment decisions associated with this possible monthly extension are made by the government, i.e. the Council of Ministers, after advice from the Intelligence and Security College. It is possible to depart from this opinion, but the reason for it must be explained. The Government determines the maximum number of military personnel and the period during which they may be deployed. We have considered that we must deploy them for a maximum period of one month, renewable. We have already made this renewal several times. The potential sites to be protected by the army are not defined by the government, not by the OCAM, but by the Crisis Centre. The Crisis Centre makes a proposal for sites to be protected as a matter of priority. This is limited to fixed stations. It is therefore a static device. However, it is not precluded that members may travel in the immediate vicinity of a guarded building or to move from one site to another. As regards the first protocol, namely the deployment for 58 days of 300 military personnel between 17 January and 15 March, variable costs amount to EUR 2.681 million. This represents the additional allowances related to the deployment of members on the street. This is therefore the additional amount paid to the Defence by the Ministry of the Interior. As far as the second protocol is concerned, since 16 March and until now, that is 31 days, we have reached an amount of EUR 1.1 million. As far as the legal basis is concerned, I refer to the response of the Minister of Defence given in committee on 25 February 2015. He explained our legal analysis of the government's ability to make this decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic159x.u9	Prime Minister, thank you for this interesting response to the methodology and decision-making process. It is a matter of astonishment that is not the responsibility of this National Security Council, but, while I understand the internal composition of a Ministerial Intelligence and Security Committee, it seems that confidentiality has not been guaranteed at all times. I'd like to avoid anything else.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic159x.u10	I'll explain myself. There are strict rules of authorization. So not everyone has the same level of authority to access certain data. As a result, some did not have the right to share certain information because, around the table, there was not the same level of empowerment. This situation is now being corrected. Everyone has the same level of empowerment. There is therefore no longer any difficulty in communicating information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic159x.u11	Your precision is useful because we might have deduced that there was a risk. Thank you. This clarification is essential for safeguarding the proper functioning of the institution. I have also taken note of your commitment to involve, through the Interministerial Conference, representatives of the federated entities and, therefore, local authorities through the Associations of Cities and Municipalities. I believe that this is a very important step. From my modest experience as a mayor – but things may evolve with greater professionalism – when you say, for example, that it is the Crisis Centre that must determine the places to be protected according to the level of alert, I can tell you that there was no identification of the places to be protected according to the levels of protection. Now, the communes have returned lists of places to protect for the Jewish community or under other circumstances, other places. But at one time, I was struck by this gap. This may have improved through the collection of information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic159x.u12	I found out, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic159x.u13	Coordination meetings were sometimes held, including mayors of Brussels who were sometimes more exposed than other agglomerations, with federal police officers who asked us for information as essential as those. Good if we've been able to make progress on the exchange of information. I believe that in the face of peril, we are all united and therefore all willing to participate in the efficiency of the work. But I had been dismayed to see that the possession of information was so flawless in some services.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic159x.u14	Mr President, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the answers. I would just like to stress Mr Maingain's last speech on coordination and local information. I myself was able to make the same observations in the difficult period that we went through around the events in Verviers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic159x.u15	To abound in the sense of what Mr. Maingain said, I was very surprised at the events in Verviers that there was no systematic inventory of sites in the territory that might have to be protected in the event of identified threats such as those we were facing. I have therefore asked the ministers and departments concerned to carry out this work. In a few weeks, I think that progress has been made, but we will have to continue the work exactly as in the case of the emergency plans, for which each municipality has had to put itself in order by identifying the type of response according to the level of danger we would be facing. I really want to support the remark that has been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic159x.u16	Prime Minister, in fact, I was able to see that there were indecisions or hesitations about the division of labour in such circumstances between the different police forces. This is a point of attention which I would like to stress because it is a matter of coordination and it could give rise to problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic159x.u17	Prime Minister, when discussing your policy statement in our committee on 18 November, you mentioned the establishment of the Centre for Cyber Security Belgium (CCB), which would start in early 2015. The Centre would receive EUR 495 265 for staff, EUR 2 384 667 for operation and EUR 5 070 000 for investment, or a total of EUR 7 949 932. In addition, the call for candidates for vacancies for director and staff of the Centre would soon be published, which has also happened in the meantime. An article in De Tijd of 16 April said that the recruitment procedure at Selor had been completed. The center would not be operational until after the summer. In addition, the budget for the centre would be greatly reduced. According to De Tijd, it would be only EUR 900 000, and the future director would have had a say in the size of the amount. The newspaper also reported that the decision to integrate CERT.be into the CCB was at issue. Firstly, can you explain why the CCB does not become operational until after the summer? Secondly, how many candidates were there in total for the functions of Director and Deputy Director? Thirdly, the CCB must be forceful. How many employees will recruit it? How many of them are real experts who will be responsible for cyber security? Fourthly, can you tell me how much budget has been allocated to the CCB? I prefer to be split up in terms of staff, operation and investment. What are the changes to the figures at the time of your policy statement? Fifthly, is it true that the future director has already had a say in the size of the budget for the centre? Sixth and finally, is it true that CERT.be will not function under the CCB? What's the reason for that decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic159x.u18	Mr Vermeulen, the CCB will become operational once the selections for Director and Deputy Director organised by Selor have been completed. Selor expects to complete the procedure by the end of June 2015. Once the two functions have been completed, the CCB may commence its work. For the director of the CCB there are sixteen Dutch-speaking candidates and nineteen French-speaking candidates. There are twenty-seven Dutch-speaking candidates and twenty-nine French-speaking candidates for the post of Deputy Director. According to the current recruitment plan, the CCB should consist of a director, a deputy director, two project managers, an attaché lawyer, an attaché communication, two administrative experts and two eGov officials by the end of this year. The 2015 budget for the CCB is EUR 719 000 I want to be very precise and clarify the information. The famous EUR 200 million envelope for investment in 2015 can and will be used on the basis of concrete proposals to be formulated by the Director. So you do not have to worry about the means: we will respect the clear commitment. That's very important to us. As with any government agency, the Director shall draw up proposals for budget sheets to be submitted for analysis to the Chancellery and to my cabinet. The Director of the CCB therefore has a say in the preparation of the budget. The functional links between the CCB and the federal services working on cybersecurity have not yet been fully established. At present, it is based on the principle that each department retains its responsibilities and role in cybersecurity, including the CERT. The Director of the CCB will analyse and determine the functional links needed in the context of the performance of the tasks of the CCB, including on the coordination of the cyber strategy. This analysis will be one of the priorities for the future of the CCB. As I have already said, I intend to inform Parliament systematically and regularly about the progress we will make on the dossier after the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic159x.u19	Prime Minister, Rome was not built in one day. The previous government has announced a lot about cyber security, but very little has been done. I am pleased that we are getting started. Better with delay, but sure, than not moving forward at all. A ship can't sail without a good captain, especially when it gets into turbulent waters. Thank you for your answer and I will certainly follow up on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic159x.u20	The cybersecurity summit in The Hague is one of the most important conferences for all business leaders and policy makers in the cybersecurity sector. Belgium was also represented by Deputy Prime Minister Peeters. You could enjoy a well-deserved holiday. According to De Tijd who reported on this, the teneur in The Hague about the operation of cybersecurity in our country was free to even very negative. Several Dutch sources have criticised the Belgian attitude towards our cybersecurity. They blame the previous government and the current government for not taking sufficient steps in the fight against cybercrime. According to them, this attitude would also make partner Member States vulnerable to attacks. So it is not only a story of shared knowledge but also of a shared response. Together one is stronger than all alone. The newspaper has also reported that Belgium, like 40 other Member States, will participate in the creation of a new international cybersecurity agency. I have the following questions about this. Can you reassure our Dutch colleagues and demonstrate that our current government, unlike the previous government, is indeed making cybersecurity a real priority? Will you contact us or have you already contacted your Dutch colleague? It is said that we are a great risk and that the attitude of Belgium makes it more difficult to counter threats. Are there any cases where there have been cyber attacks on Belgium to obtain data from a partner country? If so, can you explain it? How will our country be represented in the newly established international cyber security agency? What budgets will we set aside for this? Is it correct that they may be deducted from the assets of the CCB? If not, where do these resources come from?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic159x.u21	Mr President, the Belgian delegation at the conference in The Hague consisted of Deputy Prime Minister Peeters, the Belgian Ambassador in The Hague, an expert from Fedict, a member of the BelNIS information security network and three experts from Cabinets. My cabinet was also represented at the conference. On the basis of my information, I can inform you that no criticism of Belgium's cyber strategy was made at any time at the conference. It was neither the place nor the time for it. It was an international conference aimed at uniting the participating countries around the cyber strategy. Following the conference, Belgium signed a cooperation agreement on cybersecurity. So Belgium is making a real commitment. As regards contacts with the Netherlands, national and international contacts have already been established in general, including with the Netherlands. Other contacts are planned, in particular through the network of CERT.be. CERT.be must establish and maintain the necessary contacts with other countries' CERTs with a view to mutual support. Information is constantly being exchanged through this route. There are no cases or examples of cooperation on security issues. However, I can tell you that technical information has been exchanged with the Netherlands in both directions. Indeed, on the occasion of the cyberconference in The Hague, Belgium co-signed a cooperation agreement in the framework of cybersecurity projects. The CCB can serve perfectly as a Belgian contact point for the collaboration with support by Fedict and CERT.be. Belgium will a priori not employ any staff in the office you are talking about. Belgium's participation consists in the implementation on an ad hoc basis of joint projects and in the bilateral or multilateral exchange of good practices on cyber security. There should not be a specific budget for this cooperation at the moment. This cooperation is part of the day-to-day work of the Belgian cyber services concerned and is part of projects that must be carried out in any case. With a view to the entry into force of the CCB and on the basis of the concrete proposals on the table, we will study that network very seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic159x.u22	Prime Minister, there was also someone from our party present at that summit in The Hague. He says it was a very valuable contact, but he had also heard in the corridors that the gap between the Netherlands and Belgium in cybersecurity is very big that there was criticism of Belgian policy. We have taken the start, especially with the Cybersecurity Centre and other measures, in order to give them much greater priority. Nor is it the intention to live on criticism, but to offer solutions. I am convinced that we have taken the right path.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic159x.u23	I note that several fellow Members were not present during this sitting. Debates of the European Parliament 2981 and No. Question No 34, by Mr Hedebouw: Question No 36, by Mr Delizée 3880 by Mr Dallemagne shall be considered withdrawn on the basis of Article 127.10 of the Rules of Procedure.
