ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u1	Minister, last summer the Institute for Sustainable Development pointed to the increase in the number of wage-earners. I'm sure you didn't miss that. From figures relating to the first three months of this year and based on data from the PPS Social Integration on the one hand and the RVA on the other, the Institute points to an increase of about 10%. Moreover, the figures show once again a large difference between the regions. For example, Flanders has about half of the number of labourers living in Wallonia and there are more people with a living wage in Brussels than in Flanders. The answer to my written question of 17 June 2015 concerning the number of young people supported and supported by the OMCWs also reveals the same differences between the regions. The number of young people with a living wage in Wallonia is 23 975 and that is about twice as high as in Flanders. In total, Brussels also has more young labourers than Flanders, i.e. about 13 000. The most remarkable is the difference between the regions in terms of the average number of days on which young people have to rely on support from the OMCW. For Flanders, this represents an average of 187.2 days, for Wallonia it is 213.9 days and for Brussels it is 239.1 days. In other words, Flanders achieves a faster outflow compared to the other regions, which also seems to indicate a different approach to activation of persons with a living wage. I do not, of course, rule out the possibility that there are other reasons for this. How does your cabinet interpret and explain the differences? The slower outflow of young people in Brussels and Wallonia could indicate a difference in activation policy approaches or how to deal with the opportunities offered by the GPMI. The paragraph on this in the coalition agreement is, of course, linked to that. Where do you stand with your plans and actions to further reactivate the OCMWFs in this respect? What additional instruments can you offer? How will you encourage OMCWFs to make a strong commitment to the activation and social integration of people with a living wage?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u2	Mrs Van Peel, the differences between the regions in terms of the number of commuters and their outflow are largely due to the different socio-economic situation in the three regions. In my opinion, the slower or faster outflow of young people is also grounded in this. It is obvious that a faster outflow can be achieved if more jobs are available to which the OCMW can accompany the younger. A comparison between the OCMWFs on the basis of the income situation of the municipalities and cities may be more relevant. My administration, for example, carried out an analysis of the quarterly report at the end of 2013, in which the Belgian OCMWFs were grouped into four clusters based on the median net taxable income per municipality. From the analysis we learn little surprisingly that the lower the level of income of the cluster, the higher the ratio of the number of beneficiaries per thousand inhabitants. As regards the activation efforts of the OMCWs, we find that they are larger in the cluster of low median income municipalities than in the cluster of high median income municipalities. This means that more is being activated in these municipalities. For more information about this analysis, please refer to the website of my administration. As far as your last question is concerned, I must reiterate that professional activation has been the responsibility of the Regions since July 2014. My policy focuses on social activation. For the target groups, the OMCWs set up actions that increase social participation, break social isolation, encourage self-reliance and can be a first step in a path towards work. In 2015, the focus of my policy was on refocusing the allowances for the clusters of small OCMWs and the OCMWs of some major cities and municipalities towards social activation, while both were previously focused on promoting the socio-professional integration of OCMW beneficiaries. The grant will finance social activation pathways that are framed by a GPMI with a view to increasing the self-reliance and social participation of the OMCW beneficiaries. Furthermore, as I told you earlier, I commissioned a study on the application of the GPMI by the Belgian OMCWs and their future possibilities in the light of a social activation policy. This study is currently in its final phase. Important elements of research for the future policy on the GPMI are administrative simplification, faster sanctions and accountability of the OMCWFs, which, moreover, according to the initial results of the analysis, strongly support the deployment of the GPMI. I will also consult with the OCMWFs to prepare the reform by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I assume that the socio-economic situation certainly plays a major role in the differences. I will not argue with that either, but the figures remain remarkable. The faster outflow of young people is the most striking. Social activation can be used in all OCMW debt instruments. This in itself does not have to depend on the socio-economic situation of the municipality in which the OMCW is located. It is important that there is sufficient monitoring of response and adequate deployment. With regard to the IPMI and its evaluation and its possible extension, I follow you on this. It will be a good tool to give OCMWFs more tools, because that's what it starts with. I do not want to put any OCMW in a bad light, on the contrary, because the figures you gave me also showed that in themselves it is not so bad with the young people who end up in the OCMW. It could be said that, if we look at the general figures, the drop-out is not all that bad, especially when we look at the young people who are studying with a living wage. Your figures show that they are doing remarkably well. Those are important things. In my view, the OMCW is too often seen as something very negative, while it can really be a lever for young people who need to support it. So that's a good thing. I'll keep following the differences. It remains very important that all OCMWFs in this country use activation in the same way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u4	Mr Minister, since the end of June, everyone on the foodweb.be website can consult whether their favourite food and catering shops are working properly. The Federal Food Safety Agency thus responds to the demand for greater openness of administration. The results are marked by a scoring system. The website shows some childhood diseases and is not really transparent. The BFSA should also be able to guarantee that the data on the website, partly due to the strong impact on the consumer concerned, can be quickly adapted when self-employed people with a bad score have quickly settled themselves. Prime Minister, are there any figures of the number of visitors to the new foodweb.be website? I'd like the figures from the day the site went online until now. Secondly, how many controls does the BFSA carry out on an annual basis and what are the frequent infringements identified by the auditors in the companies known at the BFSA in the period 2011-2015? A division by city centre and by province. Thirdly, are you willing to make an evaluation of the foodweb.be website, where everyone can see how hygienic catering and food business operate using a scoring system, an evaluation of user-friendliness and search function? For example, it is almost always necessary to enter the name of the case in order to make a search and it is not possible to check the scoring system via the combination of selection criteria, such as Thai restaurants in Leuven. Can this system be adjusted where necessary? If so, what do you think are the working points? Fourthly, are there sufficient safeguards in place to ensure that in a case that immediately eliminates its negative comments after a bad score, a new hygiene check is quickly carried out by the BFSA in order to prevent a needlessly damaging impact on a case that has immediately taken hold? Fifthly, is there sufficient staff available to carry out these re-examinations? If so, what deadline are we talking about at such a re-examination? How many auditors does the BFSA count and how many persons are subject to a routine inspection check? Sixth, is it possible to place the integrated inspection reports online in the context of clear and open communication? If so, when will this happen? If not, what is the reason not to do this? Finally, are you thinking of making the BFSA score mandatory in controlled cases as is already the case in some countries? This creates consumer confidence when the hygiene score is positive. When the result is bad, the business leaders will act more quickly to address the flaws and work away.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u5	Mrs Van Hoof, the number of individual users for the application foodweb.be is not registered, but the BFSA does know the number of times an inspection result is requested. Since the start of the publication of the results, 4 817 388 times the result of an operator was requested via foodweb.be. During the period from 2011 to 2015, an average of 30 428 hygiene inspections were carried out on an annual basis with operators selling food to the final consumer. 12.7% of this took place in the province of Antwerp, 11.2 % in the Brussels-Capital Region, 10.4 % in Hainaut, 7.3 % in Limburg, 11 % in Liège, 3.3 % in Luxembourg, 4.9 % in Namur, 14.5 % in East Flanders, 7.3 % in Flemish Brabant, 3.5 % in Walloon Brabant and 13.9 % in West Flanders. The most common serious non-conformitys affecting the inspection result have remained the same over the years. They relate to respect for the temperatures of refrigerated foods, the cold chain and the correct thawing, to cleanliness of surfaces in contact with foodstuffs, to the absence of foods that have been spoiled or whose final consumption date has been exceeded or which are unfit for human consumption and to good personal hygiene as well as to the wearing of appropriate and clean clothing. In response to the third question, I would like to reiterate that the score system developed by the BFSA is the result of various consultations with consumer organisations and relevant professional associations. It was also examined in depth in the Advisory Committee. In my opinion, the success of the website and its consultation over the last few weeks show that the consumer has no problem with its use. The website also provides a demo, which clarifies how an inspection result can be found. Suggestions for adapting the foodweb.be application to make them more user-friendly are of course welcome. However, your suggestion to distinguish between tips from restaurants in the future is not feasible. This data is not available in detail in the databases of the BFSA. In order to give the operator an opportunity to improve after an initial negative result, the scoring system takes into account either an immediate correction by the operator or the finding that the operator has settled after an initial check. In this case, the operator is considered to be good in foodweb.be. The operator responsible shall eliminate the non-conformity within a specified time limit agreed between an operator and the controller. The review shall take place shortly thereafter, taking into account the length of this agreed period. For example, where the time limit is less than two days, the aim shall be to carry out the re-check within 24 hours below. If a longer period is agreed, the re-check shall be carried out no later than 30 calendar days after this time. Rechecks shall be treated as a priority. There is sufficient staff to carry it out within an acceptable time limit. In 2014, 649 full-time equivalents worked in the outdoor services of the BFSA. Checks are usually carried out by one auditor, except in the case of possible aggression or threat or in very large companies. An operator can, if he so wishes, always improve his hygiene score by having his autocheck validated and obtained a smiley face. The publication of the full inspection reports, which were developed as a reporting tool to ensure a harmonised and transparent way of monitoring, is not the best way to inform consumers. These are technical documents which are difficult to read for laymen. However, these documents can be obtained per individual operator on the main management of the BFSA. A form is currently being prepared which can be voluntarily hung by a manager. There is currently no obligation to postage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answers to all the questions asked. In any case, the figures are impressive, with more than four million visitors. That doesn't say how many visitors a day there were, but four million people are an impressive figure. I think it is necessary to evaluate at some point and see if it has the necessary impact on the ground. That is necessary in any action you take.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u7	Madam President, Minister, Article 44 of the 2011 European Union Regulation on the provision of nutritional information to consumers requires each Member State to define the meaning of food pre-packaged for immediate sale. Foods covered are exempted from certain labelling requirements applicable to pre-packaged foods, with the exception of allergen information. In your administration's proposal, foodstuffs prepacked for immediate sale are the products sold in the control area. From this, I understand that products in a self-service mode are not included. As a result, products that are essential for the profitability of the local grocery store or butcher have to meet a lot of obligations that are financial and administratively burdensome for local traders. The legislation on nutritional labelling is so complex that it is impossible for the self-employed with their own preparations to be fully legal in order. Mr Minister, are you going to stick to the definition that has now been drawn up by the administration of the Public Health Office? Are you planning new consultations to adjust that definition with the various stakeholders? If that definition and approach of the government is maintained, it would seem desirable to introduce accompanying and exceptional measures, including to give the baker, butcher and caterer oxygen. Do you share that analysis? Has there been any talk of this? What proposals have already been put forward for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u8	Madam President, Mrs Van Hoof, the safety of the food chain is my responsibility. I thus manage this dossier in consultation with my colleague, Minister Peeters, and in full transparency with Minister De Block, which also explains why I am taking over this question. This dossier has already been the subject of numerous discussions between the administrations, the sectors concerned and my staff. Since I am competent for the self-employed and SMEs, I am committed to avoiding any avoidable administrative or financial burden for them. This dossier must strike a balance between the European Union's obligations and the small room for manoeuvre it allows for clear and complete information on food for consumers and the practical difficulties associated with the sale of foodstuffs prepacked for immediate sale. Indeed, the definition initially proposed by the administration, after consulting the various sectors, imposed full labelling for most of the products sold in self-service. Although this definition provides for a relaxation of the general rules applicable in particular to the self-employed and SMEs, these sectors have contacted me on the practical difficulties in applying this definition. That is why, in June, I invited these sectors and the administrations concerned to my cabinet to clarify this definition and to identify the points on which there is disagreement. After this meeting and because I wanted more facilities for the small structures and for the locally prepared products, I asked my services to re-examine the definition on the basis of cases of practice and concrete proposals submitted by these sectors. So I can assure you that I want to find a solution that is acceptable and practical for everyone, in cooperation with Minister Peeters, who is responsible for the labelling of foodstuffs. A new definition is currently being studied by the administrations. All sectors concerned will be consulted again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u9	Minister, it is a good thing that you are holding consultations. This is a problem which is rightly mentioned here and which has already been resolved in the Netherlands by providing for a derogation for self-service when the workshop is located in the case where the food is being prepared. It is therefore very useful to look at the Dutch example, according to which a derogation was provided for neighborhood supermarkets where the food is prepared on the spot. Of course, an expiry date must be stated and other issues that are necessary for the consumer must be taken into account. In the Netherlands, therefore, a piece of the solution has already been found. It might be useful to look at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u10	Joined Questions Nos 5911, 5915, 5975 and 6608 by Rita Gantois, Leen Dierick and Els Van Hoof are transformed into written questions. Question No 5913 by Mrs Rita Gantois and question No 5938 by Mrs Renate Hufkens are also transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u11	Madam President, Minister, in a press release dated 17 July, you announced an agreement within the government on how to allocate the €27.8 million to compensate the municipalities for the additional costs associated with increasing the number of social inclusion (RIS) income as a result of limiting access to integration allowances. On the other hand, the draft decree submitted to the Council of State is not accessible, and no other information is available for the municipalities concerned other than those contained in your communiqué, in particular the main one, namely that the CPAS were to receive in 2015 157.82 euros more for each RIS file granted between 1 May 2014 and 30 April 2015. Several questions arise with regard to the actual cost borne by the CPAS, given the increase in the number of applicants, as well as the methods of calculation and the policy choices that guide this draft order. Minister, how has this amount of €27.8 million been established? What proportion of the cost differential will be covered? Is this amount likely to be increased in line with changing needs? I would like to draw your attention to the assessment carried out by the Walloon Federation of CPAS, which estimates that this corresponds to 21% of the new needs. When will the municipalities concerned have complete and clear information? In fact, when they interviewed your firm this summer, the latter replied that they should be content with what appeared in the press release and that it was necessary to wait for the opinion of the Council of State. Why will this grant supplement be distributed based on the absolute number of RIS files and not on the number of new RIS files? Has a comparative study of the effects of the two calculation methods been conducted? What were the conclusions, particularly with regard to its effects Region by Region and municipality by municipality? With regard to the number of RIS cases opened in the municipalities, will a monthly average or the absolute number of cases opened, including for one day, be taken into account? It also requires administrative work, as you know. Have you worked with the CPAS representative federations on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u12	Minister, in your communication, you say that you are going to take over 100% of the extra costs and explain your method of calculation. You state that 176,357 cases have been opened for the whole country and that you have divided the 27 million that the aid to the excluded unemployed has cost these 176,357 which gives 157,82 euros per file. You then multiplied this number by the number of files opened in a year, which makes it possible to stick to reality. The Wallonia CPAS Federation has reached a figure of 13.14 million, whether it is ONEM sanctions or the purpose of entitlement to integration allowances. However, according to the Commission, the total cost of the inclusion benefit entitlement for 2015 amounts to 21.5 million. Therefore, if we consider only the inclusion benefit entitlement files that earn integration income, the amount released by the government for the Walloon CPAS would be close to 62% of the actual cost incurred by the latter. Finally, the sum that offset the ONEM sanctions so far, that is, €49.12 per file per year, is melted into the €27.8 million you are announcing. It also considers that if all penalties and legal purposes are reduced, the real cost borne by the Walloon CPAS amounts to EUR 81.5 million. In its June 2015 study, Cherenti estimates that from 2005 to 2014, the number of dependents of Walloon CPAS as a result of an ONEM sanction increased by 1,778%. From 373 people in 2005 to 6,635 in 2014. Mr Minister, in view of the introduction of an activation procedure for young people undergoing integration and those receiving an integration allowance, what about compensation for the costs of sanctions? Is the transfer of expenses due to the activation procedure linked to the traineeship or the insertion allowances taken into account? In the latest statistical bulletin of the Social Integration PPS, 35% of people who end up being entitled to an integration allowance as of December 31, 2014 turned to CPAS to apply for integration income. Is a study planned to find out what really happens to the 65% of young people who do not ask for anything? We know that some of them are unaware of the steps they would be entitled to take. It is important to prevent people from disappearing from the scope of intervention and social protection coverage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u13	Madam Chair, I will try not to be redundant given that we have virtually the same question. Minister, an effort is therefore being made. You have decided to grant an additional 27 million to CPAS. As was the case in Charleroi, I believe that all CPAS received the communication from the SPP Social Integration specifying the amount each CPAS receives. A calculation has been made which, in your opinion, makes it possible to compensate 100% for direct costs. I'm not hiding from you that the machines are turning to make sure that they are. For now, we can't do it. But this will probably be the subject of further questions. Without wishing to duplicate what Mrs Gerkens has told you, I would point out that a calculation has already been made by the Federation of CPAS. For the Walloon CPAS, EUR 13.14 million would be obtained out of the 27. However, the total direct cost of the inclusion benefit entitlement would amount to € 21.5 million, leading to a delta of about € 7 million, to the big snag. If we also take into account the ONEM sanctions, for which 100% compensation had been announced at the level of the CPAS, the real cost is 81.5 million euros, which is compensation of only 16% compared to the 27 million euros you are announcing. Minister, thank you for this first step. We hope at the CPAS level that this will not stop there. Therefore, after discussion with your colleagues, would you not consider an increase in the reimbursement rate and an increase in staff costs? Indeed, each time the direct cost is taken into account. But we're not there and the machines are spinning in each CPAS to check exactly what's happening. Next, inquiries will be made directly through the Social Integration PPS. Nor should we forget the indirect costs which must be taken into account. Discussions on these new compensations must take place. Indeed, in the circulars that you publish, in the recommendations that are made, either by yourself or through the Social Integration PPS, there are systematically additional requests addressed to the CPAS. At one point, however, indirect costs should also be mentioned and compensation should be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u14	Mr Minister, you have indeed decided on an additional allowance for the OMCWs of EUR 27.8 million for the measures taken by this government which would lead to an increase in the number of wage-earners. That is what the coalition agreement says, and it is good that you keep to it. I share the concern that additional questions should be addressed to the OCMWFs so that they can do their job properly and reintegrate the new labourers as soon as possible. It is important to reason on the basis of the correct figures. In a previous question relating specifically to the limitation of the eligibility allowance over time, that was estimated by you at that time to be an increase of 35% for the OCMWFs. Further research will be carried out into where these 65% of other young people are going, because that is not yet entirely clear. We can assume that this extra stick behind the door will ensure that a large part of them find a job after all or do not qualify for a living wage because they have sufficient resources. This summer I read that the PPS Social Integration is working on an analysis to identify the consequences of the measures. That analysis would have been completed by the end of September. It's a long shot whether there are any results available today. If the analysis is complete, what are the results? In the meantime, do we have exact figures? Do they match your estimate a few months ago? Are there any concrete figures on the number of young people who have turned to the OMCW for guidance and financial support after the termination of the integration allowance? Can this be broken down into the number of applications accepted and refused and what are the reasons for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to give you a precise explanation of the measures that are being compensated, as well as of how this compensation is calculated. To do so, I will detail the eight measures that will be the subject of our discussion. As you know, six of them were taken and implemented under the previous government. Two others fall under the jurisdiction of the current government. As a reminder, the first six measures are as follows: 1. the limitation of the allowance to a maximum period of three years; 2. the refusal of entitlement to integration benefits following the non-demonstration of active participation in an individual integration journey offer; 3. the introduction of increased degressivity in the amount of unemployment insurance; 4. the introduction of the availability procedure for young people with the possibility of excluding the beneficiary from an integration allowance under the specific procedure for activation of research behaviour; 5. the extension of the 'availability' procedure for unemployed persons over 50 years of age; 6. the extension of the period of employment by three months. The previous government had allocated a one-time one-time compensation to CPAS for measures 2 to 6, via a flat-rate amount per file of EUR 49.12. This compensation was intended to mitigate the impact of these measures during the period 2012-2014. This amount is therefore not based on the new package. For 2015, the budget necessary for the implementation of these measures has been recalculated, a new estimate as I will explain in a few moments. The measures that fall within the jurisdiction of that Government are as follows: 7. the reduction from 30 to 25 years of the maximum age at which integration allowances may be claimed for the first time (measure which entered into force on 1 January 2015); 8. the link to minimum qualification requirements for the right to integration allowances for young people under 21 years of age (the provision entered into force on 1 September 2015). I shall elaborate on this list in order to recall the different categories of situations and compensation such as we are discussing. As regards the EUR 27.8 million in particular, how did we reach this figure? The amount of EUR 27.8 million provided for in the 2015 budget is based on an estimate made by my administration taking into account, on the one hand, data provided by the National Employment Office and, on the other hand, findings made in the past concerning the transition of excluded persons to unemployment who request CPAS and, on the other hand, following a survey carried out in the middle of this year among CPAS. The measure whose impact is most predictable is the limitation of the insertion allowance to a maximum of three years, starting on 1 January this year. In order to assess the impact of this particular measure, the CPAS were interviewed on three occasions. Of all CPAS in the country, 444 responded to the latest survey. The total impact of the eight measures was estimated at EUR 86 550 134, of which the Federal State share is EUR 58 717 607 and the amount to compensate the CPAS was to be EUR 27 832 527. For the federal state, the impact was calculated over ten months. Why? Because the fiscal year of integration income, given the delayed effect, runs from November to October. For CPAS, this calculation was based on 12 months. What is the precise method of calculation? In the case of measure 1, the restriction of the income from integration to three years, a budget of EUR 22,386,270 was set on the basis of the survey of CPAS. This offsets the share of CPAS in the new integration income of 8,616 people, calculated on the basis of a full year. For the estimation, we have taken into account the different categories of integration income, also knowing that not all people will remain with the CPAS for a full year, either because they arrived later in the CPAS, or because they will get out of an integration income during 2015 as a result of their occupational integration, as a result of the implementation of articles 60, 61 or other efforts. For measures 2 to 6, I have based myself, in terms of compensation, on the projections drawn up by the SPP Social Integration which itself cross-referenced these data with the data of the Banque-Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale. This represents a budget of EUR 5 307 769 for measures 2 to 6. I can of course give you all these figures. For the new measures 7 and 8, I have planned an estimated budget, taking into account also the entry into force of the two measures, of EUR 2 019 726, based on the ONEM projections. We also obtained precise figures via the Banque-Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale concerning the actual measures and expenditure of the CPAS following the measures taken in 2012 and 2013, which were offset by the €49.12 package I mentioned a few moments ago. According to these precise figures, which were transmitted to me by the Banque-Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale and my department, it appears that the CPAS received an amount of 1 881 377 euros in excess for the period concerned for the compensation of the measures taken in 2012 and 2013. This amount has therefore been deducted from the total I have just mentioned. You add the 22,386 million, the 5,307 million, the 2,019 million, you withdraw the overpayment from the years 2012 and 2013 and you get the total sum of 27,832,527 euros under Article 43/1 of the Law of 26 May on the right to social integration. I allocated this amount on the basis of a lump sum calculation. Why a lump sum calculation? It has been established taking into account the total number of integration revenues granted over a one-year reference period, the one that is the closest statistically and the most practically usable, i.e. the one that runs from May 2014 to April 2015. During this period, a total of 176,357 integration income files were granted in Belgium. Thus, the sum of 27,832,527 was divided by 176,357 integration income files granted during this reference year, resulting in the amount of €157.82 per file. This amount is therefore not the amount that the CPAS paid in relation to the new integration income files as a result of the exclusions. This is the result of the calculation method that I am detailing in complete transparency. Why did you opt for a package? And very logically, why not count the amounts involved in each of the country's CPAS and then allocate them? There are several elements of a response to that. The first element: to obtain this information on the actual amounts spent by CPAS on these different measures, I can only obtain this information at the earliest in early 2016. Secondly, I used a methodology that had already been applied by the previous government for the distribution of the EUR 49 I mentioned a few moments ago. Thirdly, in order to be able to pay the CPAS quickly, 2015 had to be treated on the basis of an estimate which, in fact, is based on the calculation as I have just indicated. The royal decree was issued on September 25, Mr. Gilkinet. The CPAS have also been individually informed and the information is also available on my administration's website. As far as the future is concerned, I intend to do several things. The first is to ask the CPAS for a precise calculation, as Mr Massin has just indicated, of the result of the take-overs by the CPAS of those excluded from integration allowances or unemployment. This exercise is not easy. This is not an estimate. This is a precise photograph, in 2015, by integration income, by duration and by category of exclusion. It is also known that there have been partial grants related to the spouse's income, for example, integration income. My intention is therefore to ask, and I will discuss it with the CPAS federations next week, for a complete photograph of the additional costs for CPAS. My intention is also to cross-check this information with information available through my department or the Banque-Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale. I intend to use this information on the one hand to clarify things with the CPAS, some CPAS telling me that they have received completely what they needed while others tell me that they are below. CPAS federations also express themselves in a variety of ways. There was a reaction from only one CPAS federation and not the other two, as you have observed. I would like with you, together with the CPAS federations, to have the precise photograph in 2015 of what CPAS have borne directly with regard to new integration income as a result of exclusions from integration allowances and unemployment. The aim is to be able, as provided for in the government agreement and in spite of a tense budgetary context, to work, discuss and consult with my colleagues so that we can obtain the increase of intervention in the income of integration, as many of you have wished. For young people or those who have not turned to CPAS, there are many reasons for this. They are linked to family income, to spouse's income, to changing situations. I do not agree with those who say that people have "disappeared", as I have read, or have been forgotten by our social security. There are a number of cases in which, in view of the family situation - particularly spouses - or the development of the personal situation, the persons concerned, in particular young people, did not turn to CPAS because they felt that they were not entitled to an integration income. I am not saying that this represents 100% of the situations, but a significant part. I would also like to point out that this calculation has been the subject of a communication and consultation with the CPAS. I do not hide from you that between the tone of the expression of the Walloon Federation of CPAS in the consultation meeting that we had and the press release that I read a few days later, there was a great difference, which surprised me. Where I join the CPAS federations and the CPAS, I'm only talking about direct costs here. We know that there are also indirect costs associated with extra work, organization, social assistance intervention, direct assistance. For the moment, I am focusing on compensations at the most just in direct aid. Other important issues will come to my office and the CPAS office, including the reception and management of income from the integration of some of the recognized refugees. To the full extent of the budgetary possibilities, I will continue to argue that the direct and, at least partially, indirect additional costs of CPAS should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u16	Minister, thank you. I must point out that we are challenging the choices of the previous government and those of this government to exclude from certain social security mechanisms more people, who are therefore forced to knock on the door of CPAS. I cannot content myself with your answer. We are concerned about the fate of those who have disappeared from these solidarity schemes. In any event, past injustice cannot legitimize future injustice. With regard to the envelope allocated to CPAS to offset the additional cost of these federal measures, I take note of the method of calculation that has been chosen. I regret that you did not take as a variable the number of additional files related to federal decisions, but their totality. You still have the option of correcting your calculation. Other measures make it possible to allocate resources on a flat-rate basis and to correct, on the basis of actual figures, a possible problem. In this respect, you have not been specific: you have indicated that you are going to ask the CPAS for these figures, but I have not heard you make a commitment to correct what should be, both in terms of absolute amounts – since the Walloon Federation of CPAS considers that they are insufficient in terms of additional costs – and in terms of the distribution of these amounts among CPAS. It is therefore important to continue the debate. Of course, the ideal would be for the students concerned to continue to be covered by integration allowances instead of having to stop their studies prematurely for fear of exceeding the age limit of 25. We therefore fundamentally challenge these policies of exclusion. What you're proposing is just a patchstone on a wooden leg.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u17	Minister, I can understand that you are making compensation choices, but you are certainly aware that these choices are particularly frustrating for both political and administrative officials. They have had the impression for years – and this will only increase with the new measures that are coming – of preaching in the desert with regard to requests for coverage. Mr Gilkinet is, I think, in agreement with me. The figures are transmitted each month to the SPP Social Integration (SPP IS) by the CPAS. Therefore, it is not necessarily necessary to wait for an annual calculation. On the other hand, there could be a system of advances on the basis of monthly figures, with a subsequent correction on an annual basis. Because you say here that you cover and then you ask for the numbers. Be careful, you may have done a calculation to determine the possible slippage. And, on the other hand, there may be corrections, but I sincerely believe that they are likely to rise. I believe that the coverage of direct costs is something fundamental. We know that for a whole series of these, percentages are set and they are always included. I, for my part, heard that agreements existed and that, for the measures we are talking about, the coverage was 100%, and not 65% to 75%. At present, in many CPAS, indirect costs are very important because they relate to training, social follow-up, SIIPs; all these things that are requested according to the current government agreement, i.e. greater social activation. So we reallocate budgets that were given for other things, and that creates a whole series of other problems. In fact, instead of a policy that was previously carried out in consultation with the SPP IS, we are going to put in place or at least come to fill a financial subsidy deficit in relation to a new policy that we are asked to pursue and thus create a hole in a social policy. And the filling of this hole is not guaranteed. Indirect costs are fundamental, especially if you want CPAS to be really public centres for social action and not a public assistance commission and therefore a real bank. It is not marked "Bancontact" above the entrance of a CPAS; it is indicated Public Centre for Social Action. So there are costs. It is essential to take them into consideration! As far as consultation is concerned, I leave you to your comments which I do not share. None of the CPAS with which I have had contacts has the impression that consultation exists. I hope that what you are considering for the reception of refugees will be different. As I said, we heard the CPAS Walloons say, "We're waiting for the government's allocation plan." If we ask for European solidarity, we are ready to assume it in Belgium. I think this might be the best thing that could happen in the short term, but there needs to be funding behind it, and I think the government should position itself urgently on this issue. I heard your words. I hope that they will be translated into action and that during the evaluation we will not be frustrated again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed explanation of the amount. I would remind you that you are doing, first of all, what you promised in the coalition agreement, namely providing compensation and keeping your finger on the wrist. I understand that it is too early to get more precise figures, but I did not quite understand the timing within which we will obtain them. It's good to keep the finger on the wrist. You have also pointed out that the greatest impact comes from the measure taken by the previous government, namely the three-year limitation. It is not unimportant to mention this, perhaps, so that certain parties might take a look at it with different glasses. Don't get me wrong, though, because I do support this measure, because I remain convinced that young people who stay in employment for three years can benefit from the wider support that an OMCW can offer, because often there is more going on than just not finding a job. I have something very comical here, so I should almost describe it from Mr Gilkinet, namely that the measure taken by this government on the conditions of study and the limitation of age to 25 years will ensure that students will stop when they are 25 years old. I really want to meet that first student who's gonna shut down his studies because he's gonna be 26, because he was gonna hang on to benefits after his studies. Frankly, I think that the measure taken by this government and the diploma conditions linked to the integration allowance will rather make it easier for young people to stop their studies less quickly than they think they can get a benefit. It may have to do with other beliefs and parties, but I think that is a comical reaction. We should actually pull the same lever. Two governments have taken similar steps with regard to the reception allowance, and that is right, because we should not hang young people in a hammock, we should provide them with a safety net. The OMCWs play a role in this and it is important that the compensation is done correctly. I hear from the Minister the promise that that compensation will be forthcoming. I fully support that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u19	Minister, I am tired of hearing in the justifications that some action has been taken by the previous government, and only two by the current government. As an environmentalist, I was not in the previous one and I am not in the current one; that is why you will say that it may be easier for me to say that these measures are eight exclusion measures that cost the CPAS and that my group could not and still cannot follow them. But the decisions that were made, you kept them. You were also in the previous government. You take responsibility for the eight measures in a comprehensive and definitive manner, since you preserve them, you keep them, you approve them. Of the 65 per cent of young people who do not ask for anything, of course, there are young people who live in a family with incomes, live with someone or have found a job. But the SPP regularly insists on the non-exercise of rights by people who believe that they do not have access to a right while they have access to it. It is important that research be carried out to determine whether all is well for these young people or whether some of them are not in a position to exercise their rights. It is known that some people disappear from the social security net, are not cared for per person. That's why we're talking about "disappeared." The SPP Social Integration itself sounds alarmed about this kind of situation, and not just about young people. The indirect costs are obviously to be borne and taken into account, especially in the CPAS with the most files, where in general the poorest and the poorest people are affected. It is not enough to say that indirect costs, at least partially, may be taken into account at some point in time. I am astonished by the modalities of consultation. If there is real consultation, if there is dialogue with each of the CPAS – CPAS which gives their figures every month to the SPP and the federations that represent them – it must be noted that these consultations, discussions, evaluations are not done in a correct and effective manner. There are indeed important differences in the way in which things are presented. You are responsible for the quality of consultation, evaluation and comparisons. I hope that you will adjust the compensation to the actual costs and that you will review the conciliation arrangements so that they are more effective and comprehensible for the actors and for us, the observers facing different assessments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u20	Madam President, I would like to add a little technical information. The information that is transmitted to the PPS is monthly information on integration income, categories, etc., but it is not information about origin. Is there an income from integration as a result of exclusion and of what nature?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u21	We know we can ask for it at the CPAS level!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u22	This is in line with my request for you. There are transmissions of information, interpretations and consultations that are not sufficiently effective and satisfactory. Minister, it is up to you to adapt these terms and conditions. If you need more precise information than CPAS can give you, just ask for it, to have directly comparable tools. We will close the matter for today. I think we will come back to that, if only during the 2016 budget discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u23	Mr Philippe Blanchart requested the postponement of his question No 6018. Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, being ill, asked that her question No 6191 be transformed into a written question. Mr. Michel de Lamotte is absent and has not indicated anything. In principle, its question No 6297 is deleted. Mr. Frank Wilrycx requested that its question No 6397 be transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u24	Madam President, Minister, studies show that giving antibiotics to pigs, even though they are not sick, is absolutely also bad for human resistance. Recently, in the press, pigs were given even more, faster and more often antibiotics. I will leave my introduction to what she is, because we all know the resistance problems. My questions are as follows, Minister. Why is this happening? Why do pigs get even more antibiotics, when they are already so bad for larger animals and for humans? At the committee meeting on 8 July, you said that you consider the fight against antibiotics to be a priority. What will you do with that? Have you taken any measures? Will you submit a draft law on this matter? Have there been any IKWEBs? Finally, is the Sanitel-Med database of the Federal Food Agency ready to enter into force early 2016, as you announced? What is the state of play with your colleague Mr Peeters and Mr De Block on the ban on price reductions in the sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u25	Madam President, Mrs Dedry, the results of the doctoral research to which you refer date from 2010. Meanwhile, several sectors are applying autoregulatory measures. The sales of antibiotics decreased more than significantly between 2011 and 2014, by 11,8%. The start-up from 2012 of AMCRA and the sensitisation work it is doing, as well as providing an alternative to antibiotics, such as zinc oxide when teating, have certainly contributed to this. Pigs are highly susceptible to infections during the first 12 weeks of life, which causes antibiotics to be used. The risk factors for infections are different. For example, the large scale of pig farms has a major impact on the infection pressure. In addition, piglets are susceptible to infections due to zootechnical reasons: a reduced cholostrum intake by the young piglets, a higher number of piglets per throw, a very young teat age and stress may undermine their resistance. There are statutory welfare standards and statutory equipment conditions for pig holdings, including a hygiene lock, the presence of a pest control programme, disinfectants and a facility for cleaning and disinfecting, the use of foot baths and the obligation to clean and disinfect at least once a year. Effective and careful compliance with and application of these conditions is the responsibility of the farmer, asking for much and a continuous discipline. Ideally, they can be supplemented by their own measures. Sows and piglets are vaccinated on a voluntary basis, but no vaccine is available for all diseases that may occur in piglets. In recent years, information campaigns have been launched by AMCRA to raise awareness of the preventive measures that can be taken by both farmers and veterinarians. The increase in these preventive and bio-safety measures is one of the elements that will make it possible to reduce the amount of antibiotics used in livestock farming. I can confirm that the fight against antibiotic resistance is one of my priorities. In this context, I would like a sensible use of antibiotics. I also support AMCRA in its demarches. A royal decree on the acquisition and supply of medicinal products intended for animals is in the final stage. It is essentially the administrative arrangements relating to these elements. On the one hand, I will simplify them by providing them with the possibility of using modern IT resources, which is not yet sufficient because the decision was published in 2000. On the other hand, I will extend the need to register the treatment administered to the food-producing animals as imposed by Europe. Finally, this new decision will also require veterinarians to provide their data on antibiotic use in each holding concerned to the Sanitel-Med general system. This last point will allow us to refine our overall analysis. We are now only aware of the global sales figures. This collection of antibiotic use data will also allow individual benchmarking and thus enable actions against the poor pupils. All these elements were discussed and are the subject of an overall agreement between the BFSA, the Public Health Office, the Agricultural Organizations, the Order of Veterinarians and the professional organisations of veterinarians. These provisions will strengthen and extend the current obligations by simplifying implementation. They will therefore contribute to the objective of better use of antibiotics. Proposals to subject the use of critical antibiotics to conditions are also being examined. The Sanitel-Med database is under development and will be delivered on 10 December 2015. A test phase is then foreseen, after which this database will become operational on 1 February 2016. The possibility of banning price reductions, especially on critical antibiotics, has already been effectively suggested between our cabinets. However, this provision does not fall within the framework of the royal decree which I have mentioned here. It is a different piece of legislation. The issue must also be addressed at European level. My colleague, the Minister for Health, and I myself follow closely the preparation of the European Regulation on veterinary medicinal products.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. Every time questions arise about consultations between government ministers, Europe's umbrella opens. I can see that. For the rest, you have indeed already taken steps. I'll follow it up. I wonder why piglets are so quickly removed from mother sow. There is perhaps the solution, because we continue to create problems by violence against nature.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u27	Minister, on 17 June 2015, you answered my questions about the merger of the CPAS and the social affairs échevinats: "From the various studies that I have at my disposal, it seems mainly that it is not possible to simply transfer the competence to authorize the municipalities and CPAS to merge to the federated entities. On the other hand, it is still possible for the federal government to authorize or impose the merger through federal law. According to the information mainly at my disposal, it appears that an ordinary law would be sufficient to allow the merger in most of the cities and communes of the country." You also said that legal analysis was needed concerning the municipalities with facilities. You also proposed to submit your work to the Kern and then to Parliament, as well as the various studies carried out. I'm coming back to you today to ask you about the status of your administration's analysis. Has the proposed merger been discussed in Kern? If not, have you set a guideline? Have you established a schedule for the various studies available to you? Will they be available to parliamentarians before discussing it with you in our committee? What will be the possibilities and your position regarding the municipalities with facilities?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u28	Minister, I would also like to return to the round we held on 17 June 2015, in which I asked a question together with some other Members. The coalition agreement is clear: we have the ambition to integrate the OCMWs into the municipalities. To this end, the necessary adaptations of the federal OMCW Act are required. I have not received any indications that ambition would have disappeared in this area. However, in your reply of 17 June 2015, you referred to several studies, which, as Mrs Gerkens also pointed out, concluded, among other things, that a special law is needed to make this possible for a number of facilities municipalities. The rest of us could go through ordinary law. In your opinion, the Regions would not be able to impose that merger. That was the analysis back then. You also replied that you would make a proposal to the nuclear cabinet and to the government to arrive at a methodological decision in the dossier. In addition, you would provide Parliament with the necessary information and studies. In other words, a response must be provided at federal level. Local authorities are also increasingly hearing that they are waiting for clarity and a clear roadmap in this area. Minister, what is the content of the proposal you are going to make or have made to the nuclear cabinet? What's the status? What is your concrete roadmap? Maybe not insignificant is the next question. Is the proposal that you will formulate to the government that all OCMW members and all municipal authorities can or must merge or integrate? After all, you talked on 17 June 2015 about being able, which is of course a fundamental difference. If we can talk about it, will the Länder still be able to impose an obligation or make an obligation themselves? Isn't there any way that your proposal already ensures that there is still a chance?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u29	As I said earlier, I have several studies on which I am currently basing myself to prepare a preliminary draft law. I will see to it that the coalition agreement is implemented as faithfully as possible. In the interests of transparency, I will forward to you the text of the bill and all of the studies involved, after they are first read in the government, I hope, in the coming weeks. You may observe that these studies do not all go in the same direction and that, at the level of certain points, they offer fundamentally different, if not opposite, conclusions. This is why discussions are currently under way in an intercabinet working group. I hope that an agreement on this issue can be reached very soon in order to allow the merger of the CPAS and the municipal services, while respecting the wishes of the regional authorities, who now exercise important power over the municipal authorities. In this connection, I would point out that the Brussels-Capital Region is opposed to this merger; that Flanders is in favour of a general merger even if it seems to have some reservations for some large cities; that Wallonia, in its government agreement, provides for the possibility of a merger even if, in the light of their statements, several ministers seem to no longer be entirely in favour of it. These are the elements of a complex puzzle, you will agree: legal studies with different conclusions, the will of the different regional authorities, a government agreement that I want to implement as soon as possible, a deadline that I want quickly so that the municipal authorities can prepare themselves, a series of other texts, other decrees that will have to be adapted. Finally, you alluded to it, there is an additional element: de situatie van de facilitien gemeententen die zal op een specifieke manier in anmerking worden genomen. We know that there is a differential treatment to be accorded to municipalities with facilities if the legal text we produce is to be robust and indisputable. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving forward. The matter is legally sensitive and politically sensitive. I also hope that social work on the ground can continue to be carried out effectively, respecting professional rules and discretion. Give me a little time, if you will, for us to discuss this subject together, for studies, before the final text comes to the table of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u30	I hear you describe the dossier as politically sensitive and legally complicated. Then I think it could be a nice challenge for a minister to come to something that suits everyone well. I understand from your answer that that remains your ambition. I do understand that the fact that you want to leave the regions in their right, and that seems to me to be a correct attitude, which is a complex issue. It is of course important for the Flemish Region that you provide the tools, so that it can fulfil an obligation, because that is the ambition of the Region. I hope that will eventually be read in the lyrics. I do not want to impose anything on the others. As far as the facilities municipalities are concerned, if I understand you correctly, we will have to come up with a two-track policy or a two-step solution. I believe that there is no other way to do this if we have to work with a special law. That seems to me to be the right choice. I am waiting to see what the texts will mean, and I hope that they will be the translation of the coalition agreement while leaving enough room for Flanders to do what it wants. I will, of course, see to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u31	Minister, I will of course follow the development of this preliminary draft. We've been talking about it for too long to report it again. You're telling us you're hoping he'll be ready in the next few weeks. If nothing moves within a month, the commission will question your firm again. It is better to debate the content of the analyses than to discuss it in a vacuum to get answers that remind us that it is complicated. We know that!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u32	Mrs Barbara Pas requested the postponement of her question No. 6503. Finally, since Mrs Nathalie Muylle was absent and had not indicated anything, her question No 6563 was deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u33	Mr Minister, my question, which I wanted to be brief in its wording and which is in the same logic as that relating to the common possibilities or obligations of merger between the two countries, concerns the transfer of information which you wish to make mandatory on the part of CPAS workers to other services and administrations, in the context of what you call "the fight against social fraud". I do not go back here to the alternatives: organic law, article 46quater of the Code of Criminal Investigation, article 458 of the Criminal Code, etc. In response to a question asked in June, you told us that you had asked – you already told us before – for analysis at the FPS Justice in order to combat social fraud and to respect professional secrecy, which is imperative. At that time, you still did not have the result of these analyses and you told us that, as soon as it was in your possession, you would come to the committee to inform us of the option you would have chosen and so that we could exchange and discuss this matter. We had thus agreed that, without any news from you, I would re-examine you after the holidays. Mr.Minister, I would therefore like to come back to you to find out what the FPS Justice has to say. What is the timeline for your work?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u34	Madam President, you are indeed honouring your promise to return to me after the holidays on this issue. Are actually at stake or in question:- the amendment of article 458 of the Criminal Code; - an amendment to the Organic Law of the CPAS of 8 July 1976, providing for exceptions to professional secrecy enshrined in Articles 36a and 50 of the Law; - the legal possibility for CPAS to lodge a complaint where appropriate; - the amendment of article 46 of the Code of Criminal Investigation; - modification or use, adaptation of article 29 of the Criminal Code procedure. In this regard, we have had a number of consultations with the justice services. At this stage, these consultations have not yet led to a proposal. We, together with my colleague Koen Geens, have scheduled a bilateral meeting on 13 October 2015 on the noon time at which our cross-cutting issues, including this one, will be on the agenda. Madam Chair, I understand that a minister is being asked about the status of certain issues. I consider that such cases deserve a reasonable time to properly weigh and analyse the implications of the measures concerned, their legal validity, their effectiveness in relation to the objective pursued, the preservation of social work and its context. These are files for which, voluntarily, I prefer to give myself time. Time can be a formidable ally or enemy. Here, I consider that it is a data that should not interfere in this work. As soon as we are ready, I will not fail to come with the presentation of the proposals, even if some of them were to be examined in the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u35	This means that you have no deadlines, except for this bilateral meeting on 13 October.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u36	I don't give it to myself!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic238x.u37	At the latest it will be, at best it will be for me! I believe that your intention to force a transfer of information beyond what now exists may undermine the respect for professional secrecy and respect for the privacy of those who depend on CPAS interventions. I am also concerned about the climate around this. You don't know what you're going to use, but you keep that goal, which is about workers and people who are going to go to CPAS. This undermines the quality of the relationship that social workers can have with those who address them. There is also the emergence of electronic records and information transfers. For example, for other departmental jurisdictions, I will cite persons with disabilities or disabilities who are subject to police investigations. The police provide information to the CPAS and require it to remove allowances. We are in a system that has the ambition to combat social fraud and which assumes that workers and beneficiaries of CPAS are first and foremost considered to be susceptible to fraud. This perverted social work. I will come back to you on this issue during the discussion of your 2016 Policy Note. We will then know what will emerge from your meeting with Minister Geens.
