ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u2	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Fonck. For personal reasons, she cannot be present with us now. She'll join us later. She refers to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, on 19 March last, 5,000 public service workers were gathered together on the union front, Place de la Monnaie in Brussels. They rightly expressed their anger, their concern, mainly in the face of index jumps and pension reform measures in the public sector. Even today, teachers, railway workers, bus drivers, factors, police, communal workers, employees send you a new signal. Pensions are at risk and public sector pensions in particular. They feel blurred, they feel betrayed. The three measures you are proposing today - abolition of the pension bonus, abolition of the diploma bonus, total deduction between income and pensions - are harmful and counterproductive for the public service, for the State budget and for the financing of social security, especially for employment. This is a frontal attack on public services. First of all, and most obviously, your reform is toxic to the public service, to its workers, to the attractiveness of the public service. Through your desire to harmonize pension plans, you propose a levelling down with the underlying idea that public sector pensions are too high. Yet, despite the widely accepted ideas, public sector pensions are generally no higher than those of the private sector. This was demonstrated by the Pension Administration itself in 2009. As you know, the vast majority of civil servants do not have a second pillar to complete their pensions. Reducing their legal pension is unfair. If you want alignment, increase those of the private sector by allocating new sources of funding, as the Pension Reform Commission encouraged you to do. You penalize the general attractiveness of the public service by returning to some of the advantages of a career in the service of the general interest. A legal pension that guarantees well-being is one of the elements of this attractiveness for them, which generally do not have extralegal benefits. With the end of the pension bonus, you remove an incentive to work longer, in a way that is incomprehensible and without evaluation of the reform carried out by the previous government, which was precisely aimed at making this bonus more attractive. Definitely, with this majority, it is always the same pattern: one shoots blindly and ideologically based on intuitions. This has concrete consequences. In the future, a teacher, for example, who would have the right to leave the early pension at 60 years but decides to continue her career until age 65, will lose EUR 2,246 per year, or EUR 187 per month, which is not negligible. With your government, it's always the same creed: working longer to earn less. The abolition of the diploma bonus also helps to weaken, make our public services less attractive, not to mention your desire that the years provided as a contract no longer be taken into account in the calculation of the public pension. The effect of abolishing this bonus will be that public service workers will eventually have to work longer after the transitional period. Some will have to work up to seven years longer, seven more years. This will be the exception, but for many, it will be three, four or five years longer than it currently is. Minister, your reform is counterproductive for the state budget and for social security in particular. The savings you plan to make on the backs of the weakest are derisory with regard to the pension budget, and we cannot say that they will ensure the social and financial sustainability of our pensions and our social security system. You know that. A growing and imposed ageing on the labour market and an increase in stress-related diseases will lead to an explosion in the number of long-term sick workers. There will inevitably be a carry-over of burdens on other branches of social security. In fact, what the government is proposing to us are stand-alone measures, but they hurt the weakest. What is needed, Minister, I say and repeat, is new sources of funding and incentives, not obligations, to stay at work. This worrying finding must be compared with your measures to raise the legal age of pension and with your government's indigence at managing career ends. Your measures are also harmful to employment, especially for young people, as they make it difficult for them to enter the labour market. This is even more true with unlimited accumulation of pensions and labour income. With this cumulation, you will contribute to increasing inequalities among seniors. There will be those who will easily be able to continue their work - high educational and income levels, long life expectancy in good health - and those who will have to do so in order to have a decent income - minimum wage, low qualifications, low pension - but whose health will not allow it in view of the length of their occupation. Finally, and more broadly, Mr Minister, this reform is in addition to all those relating to pensions already taken or in any case initiated with a truncated consultation. You make important decisions in haste, leaving the crumbs to social consultation. Because, Minister, your pension file is sausageed. You quickly and unilaterally decide on hostile measures against workers and pensioners; and the surplus is left to social consultation, referred to the future National Pension Committee. Mr Minister, this is not how we treat the social partners in our country. Minister, we need a respected, effective, attractive public service. Today's protests and strikes also testify to this. We need agents to fight tax fraud, to do justice in a reasonable time, to drive trains on time, to ensure security in neighbourhoods, to educate our children. Your reform contributes to dismantling our common heritage: public service. We will not support her. Order of business / Order of business
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, together with all the political groups, we agreed to vote this evening from 7 p.m. We will vote at the earliest at 7:00 p.m. this evening. Maybe we're done by then, maybe we're not, but it's about to come out. It is important that everyone knows that there will be a vote around 19:00. This obviously depends on you, ladies and gentlemen. By the way, a buffet is provided. Because of the traffic difficulties in Brussels, it will not make much sense to leave the city earlier. Tomorrow there will be oral questions and items on the agenda. There will be no plenary meeting this Thursday morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about an important part of our pension system, which in itself is a crucial element of our social security. All employees expect to enjoy a well-deserved rest after years of professional activity. They rightly expect the pension system to make this possible. That system grew organically, but unfortunately without too much general overview. Anyone who wants to express himself mildly will recognize a coffin in it. Anyone who wants to press the finger more firmly on the wound is talking about an apartheid system. The system is not only extremely complicated, it is full of specific privileges for one, which by definition are at the expense of the other. In this way, injustices grow in the system, which may have historical backgrounds, but which can no longer be justified today. They ensure that it is very important that the legitimacy of our pension system comes under pressure in the eyes of many people. Today, the government also makes promises to employees about guaranteeing pensions, which do not take into account demographic, social and economic realities. Among other things, the reality of the extremely short average career and the proliferation of similar years ensure that the system will become unaffordable under unchanged policies. The workers would, of course, be the first to suffer. Because these workers are entitled to a sustainable pension system, the status quo is not an option, even if certain social forces give the impression that we can go into the dark whistling. They make that status quo a sacred principle, but they undermine in an irresponsible way the foundations of our social system in general and of our pension system in particular. Fortunately, there is currently enough political space to go beyond cheap messing in the margins. Today we will take a very important new step. With this law, we are moving towards equal treatment in the various systems, towards sustainability and justice of our pensions. I will discuss the three elements of the draft law before us. Firstly, the problem of diploma qualification. The Diploma Certificate system does not exist for any pension system except for the public sector. I repeat that there were undoubtedly good arguments for this in the past, but future pensioners in the public sector will not receive a lower pension because of the measure we are going to take. The gradual extinction of the Bonifications system will automatically be compensated by longer working hours. As a result, the total income of the employees will be higher than at present. With this, with the phasing out of Diploma Bonification, we are implementing an explicit recommendation from the Committee on Pension Reform 2020-2040 and we are also making very important mixed careers more attractive. The Pension Reform Committee 2020-2040 no longer saw any objective reason to maintain the bonifications in the future. Over a period of 14 years, the career condition in the public system will be aligned with that in the employee system today. That's only fair. Moreover, by going towards equal treatment in the various systems, we are achieving a significant long-term budgetary gain. By 2030, it will amount to EUR 240 million, an amount which we will gain structurally and which will help to strengthen the financial sustainability of the system. The transitional measures taken prove that we are not looking for bold revolutions, but for a step-by-step change for the better. The government, after consulting the trade unions, has chosen to phase out the diploma qualification progressively at six months a year for studies of more than four years and at five or four months for diplomas of shorter duration. This proves that we take into account realistic proposals from the social partners, proposals which do not undermine the coalition agreement and its foundations. I would also like to mention in particular the transitional measures for education and staff in the TBs system. Anyone who has voluntarily remained at work in the past, while he or she could get off, will see the right clicked. In this way, those concerned do not suffer from their own good will. Secondly, the unlimited additional earnings after the retirement age, a fundamental change in the vision of retirement and labour. It will be possible to enjoy a good pension at the same time and still remain professionally active without being severely punished. Social security must continue to have an insurance element for us. Those who are lucky enough to keep working should not be pushed through the system towards inactivity. For us, any active contribution to the labour market should be welcomed. Work creates work. A job that an older person does, he does not take away from a younger person, quite the contrary. We must fight this false myth vigorously, because it will lead us to the strange logic that unemployment could be solved by further lowering the retirement age. This also contributes to the harmonization of systems. Officials will now be subject to the same rules as those applicable to employees. On this occasion, I would like to urge the government to take all the accompanying measures to remove all obstacles that can demotivate people to take advantage of this possibility. Finally, the abolition of the pension bonus will undoubtedly provoke criticism, but, unfortunately, we had hoped that it would be otherwise.... nothing shows that the pension bonus extends the career of employees. On the other hand, the additional budgetary costs are fixed. In times of budgetary scarcity, we no longer have the luxury of investing in a policy whose impact is questionable. That is why the Di Rupo government has begun to adjust the pension bonus from the purple years and this government continues along that path. The criticism that this government is reducing pensions is, of course, incorrect. We have taken exactly one battery of measures to ensure a better pension for the most vulnerable pensioners. For example, we have increased the lowest pensions by means of the welfare envelope and make it easier and more attractive to earn additional purchasing power ourselves. We also have, and I would like to stress this, the ambition to generalise the supplementary pension for contractual officials, who often receive a much lower pension for the same work than their statutory colleagues. Of course, this law should be seen as part of the ambitious pension project that this government is working on. The necessary accompanying measures shall be provided for. I would like to point out in particular the need for this to be an appeal to the government, but certainly also to the social partners who are all interested in it to urgently work on the principle of workable work. Longer work must be done, but it must also be made possible. In short, this reform is fair, logical and necessary. Our group is extremely pleased that there are wide transitional provisions in place. We are again taking an important step from the current system, which is financially unsustainable in the long term, towards a sustainable system that can guarantee a good pension for future generations as well. Our group therefore welcomes this law because it shows a sense of solidarity, solidarity between systems and, most certainly, solidarity between generations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u6	Mr President, I would like to respond to what has just been said by Mr De Roover, but also because my intervention is similar to that of the previous speaker, my colleague from the PS. I fully endorse the criticisms and comments made. However, what bothers me, Mr De Roover, is that you speak as if this is a first step in the fundamental rescue of pensions. You are always talking about the fact that the situation is becoming financially unfeasible and that we are heading for havoc if we do not intervene. Well, I have repeatedly said that pensions are actually a contract for the future. Workers, under any statute, must be able to trust that their pension will allow them to live in a humane way. And that is the social contract for the future. You are talking about the step-by-step rescue that has begun. I quote literally what the head of the study service, Mr Serroyen, writes about this draft: "This is the first step of a spoon-by-step breakdown." The more you give society the signal that pensions will become unaffordable and that it will be a social disaster if no fundamental and structural intervention is taken now, the more you undermine that confidence and thus partly the basis for your future system. I'm giving a philosophical presentation here. What bothers me, however, is that you argue that those involved will not feel it and that these measures will not hurt. As for the pension bonus, I'll give you the benefit of the doubt. It cannot be measured whether or not work is continuing. It is a sign of trust when society indicates that those who work longer will receive a better pension. That is now partially deleted. On the budgetary implications, I share your view that they cannot be measured properly. However, as far as diploma certificates are concerned, you cannot ignore the fact that the measure for a category of civil servants means that they have to work longer, in order to have a reduced pension at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u7	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u8	If I am mistaken, every social body in this country is mistaken. This is, after all, the effect which, in certain cases, will inevitably be the result. This effect must be read together with what is still envisaged by the federal government agreement and by a number of declarations. I remember, like many others, the direct statement that we should work until the age of 67. These signals therefore undermine the essence of what you started with, namely the legitimacy of the system. This is particularly dangerous, and I think it is even the ultimate step towards the fundamental dismantling of our social security system. Social organisations, workers and workers' groups will no longer believe in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u9	Mr Bonte, I understand your philosophical reservations. However, I would like to make a specific point. After all, it bothers me that wrong information is always given on that point. When it comes to abolishing diplomas, it is about abolishing them for the calculation of early retirement. Instead of being able to retire at the age of 60, if I have three years of graduation, I will have to continue to work until the age of 63. I will continue to work until the age of 63 and will therefore simply build up three years of additional pension. After that, I will continue to receive the three years of graduation, which gives me the right to three years of extra pension if I do not have a career of 45 years. That right to the corresponding pension remains before the diploma certificate. We must have the courage to communicate this clearly. Anyone who criticises the measure must dare to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u10	Mr President, Mrs Becq, no problem on the practical issue. You're right to dot the i's. Mr Bonte, I am glad that you share our concerns about the principle. However, I would like to point out that the figures are really alarming and that if we do not see these facts, it will certainly not benefit the system. I want to tell you a personal fact. When, around 1982, I was taught by Professor Van Broekhoven, almost a career ago, he told us that without serious intervention, we would end up where we ended up today. I am not saying that no action has been taken in the past. They have been taken, but I think that this measure is much more fundamental and, with all due respect to previous governments, perhaps should have been taken sooner. As a result, the viability of the system can be achieved, and this is what the fundamental objective of the system is to ensure that the concrete promise to people who are retired after a career and deserve the necessary social solidarity can be kept. With empty promises, which are unsubstantiated and do not take into account demographic, economic and social developments, pensioners are nothing. This is a form of farmers' deception for which they will pay the price when the train does indeed run off the rails. All specialists agree, including the very broad Commission on Pension Reform 2020-2040, that fundamental steps need to be taken to ensure affordability. You will agree, because this government is well aware of the Commission's recommendations in the various steps in pension reform, without taking the decisions literally. These are opinions from which we must make political choices. These political choices may differ between your group and the majority. You will not dispute that we are essentially moving again towards a system in which the various systems are growing towards each other in the long term. No one denies the need to work longer. This is also explicitly stated in our proposals, but we guarantee that there is no reduction in the level of pensions. That is essential for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u11	Mr De Roover, I would like to start with what I said earlier, and with whatever you emphasise, like everyone else in this Chamber: it is clear that measures are needed to ensure the affordability and future of our pension system. In 2003 I had the pleasure of chairing the Parliamentary Committee on Ageing, in which the pension files and their financing were analysed very thoroughly. The need for a package of measures is obvious. It is also clear that measures are needed to increase the number of people working longer. Even then, suggestions were made about the pension bonus. You are now saying that it has not been proven that this pension bonus encourages many people to work longer. I say that there are no convincing figures on this, either in one direction or in the other. All I see is that the political choice is made to abolish the pension bonus. However, there is no convincing evidence that the pension bonus has not led to people working longer. The opposite is not true either. I simply note that the political choice is made to abolish the pension bonus. That is a clear choice, which we do not support, on which we disagree. In the example given by Mrs Becq, she puts the dots on the i. In certain cases, she's right. In other cases, where people cannot choose whether they work effectively longer or not, she is not right. Turn to your own study service, Mrs Becq, there will be people who work longer and still have less pension. That is a political choice, but not ours. The most fundamental thing, Mr De Roover, is that saving the pension system requires everyone to believe both employers and employees in the future of the system. Announcement of measures which lead to less and less belief that personal standards of living will continue to be guaranteed in the future undermines the legitimacy of the system. You referred to the expert committee. There is one fundamental choice that the Committee of Experts, as well as the Committee on Ageing, has always put forward since 2003, and that is the fundamental political choice. We must also recognise, as the Committee of Experts states, that it is not only a question of making more people work longer, but also of alternative funding, mainly with capacities that can contribute to the social system and to the pension system. That is the fundamental political choice in which you and I differ greatly and where the Christian Democratic wing always starts to look at the ceiling when you talk about saving social security. The social security system will be saved by levels of activity, by labour market performance and at the same time by political capacity, purely because of demography and balance, in order to make a contribution to the financing of the pension system. However, there is no mention of this, and that is the essential difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u12	Mr De Roover, I find it difficult to understand that you are simply ignoring the fundamental philosophy which the government is trying to apply now. The first question is whether there will be any longer work to be done. The answer to that is clearly yes. The abolition of diploma certificates will require at least three more years of work. The second question is whether less pension will be earned. The answer to that is also yes. You know this yourself: the abolition of the pension bonus will reduce the number of people who are entitled to do so. The different systems mean that pensions in public services in our country are still on average in Europe, which is not the case for the private sector. The measures are therefore an attack on these pensions, and there will be even less to be earned. You can't deny that. No one has said that they would be the same people, it is a global philosophy that is being applied. You have always come up with the fact that we are no longer able to pay pensions. Today, France and Austria already spend 15% of their gross domestic product on pensions. That is what we in Belgium may have to spend in 2060. The committee has made it clear that when most of the baby boomers retire, we are at a maximum of 15% of gross domestic product. So where's the problem? We have never produced so much wealth in Belgium. So let some of this wealth flow to our pensioners instead of making them pay.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u13	I would like to register as false with regard to various elements that have been said. I do not agree with this alarmist attitude, as if it were a fatality, as if it were absolutely necessary to change the current situation with these measures and in this way. You have to have a responsible attitude. I agree that we must not remain silent. The proposals made by the Committee of Experts form a whole and deserve analysis. In this report, there were some basic proposals, namely to strengthen the first pillar, to ensure its sustainability and to strengthen funding by diversifying it, to increase the real pension age by encouraging those who can work longer, to stay at work and even to leave work gradually. These are things we need to work on. When I hear you, it is necessary to work longer, but it must be possible. This is not the case in the measures we are discussing here; it is not a question of working when possible, but of an obligation. It's very different. There is a need to increase the employment rate in different age groups for younger, middle-aged and older people. Seniors should not only be forced to work longer. You are enthusiastic about intergenerational solidarity. I do not feel that the measures you want to take will go towards such solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u14	Mr President, I would like to put the budgetary impact of this government's pension reforms in perspective. One can, of course, discuss reforms, but the sobriety commands us to assess the budgetary impact of the pension reforms that this government is implementing. I would like to put that in perspective for all the speakers. In 2011, when the Di Rupo government started, estimated ageing costs amounted to 8 % of GDP or 32 billion euros with perspective 2060. At that time, Mr De Roover, a first step was taken, perhaps too little for you, but one step was taken, in which the age for early retirement was increased from 60 to 62 years. The career requirement was also extended from 35 years to 40 years. This has had an impact of 0.5% of GDP. That is not insignificant, but it is, of course, too little, and I agree with you. If we look at where we are at the moment, the cost of ageing with horizon 2060 is only 5.2 %. This has to do with the intervention I have just mentioned, but also with better demographic growth. That's what the Planning Bureau proposed. Colleagues, this government's commitment to pensions amounts to 1.9 % of GDP, or 8 billion euros. This has to do with raising early retirement age from 62 to 63 years, raising retirement age from 65 to 67 years by 2030, as well as the government's measures on Diploma Bonification and Pension Bonus. These reforms will reduce the number of 312 000 pensioners and 85 000 bridge pensioners in 2060. It is therefore a huge effort, so that the total bill of ageing in 2060 would amount to only 3.3 % of GDP. In other words, the figures I have outlined, which will soon be confirmed by the European Commission, on the basis of a study by the Planning Bureau, show that these reforms are fundamental reforms that will finally provide a perspective for future generations to retire. I would then like to comment on what Mr Bonte says. He's talking about scare-making. What we are doing here is, step by step, without major revolutions, reforming pensions to give young people the assurance that they will be able to receive a pension in years of age that is no less than today, but that is a solid first pillar that must be able to provide security. What frightens me a little, Mr Bonte, is that the Socialists want to solve the problem by making the ability to contribute rather than by major reforms. Your group leader, Mrs Tax Shift, is not here yet, but that is the discourse that the Socialists are constantly throwing on the table. A tax shift is first referred to as shifting taxes on labour to taxes on capital and now one wants to use the tax shift to close the deficits. Soon you will probably want to use that income to spend more. In other words, your discourse is not credible. If you are honest with the population, you must dare to say that we must reform pensions in a fundamental way. That is also the courage that Frank Vandenbroucke, among others, has had. He said at the time, in 2004-2005, sometimes to the shame of his own party, that there should be reform. He was not followed by his party. That was a tragedy for democracy in our country. We then took a first step with the socialists in the government in 2011. This was a first modest step of 0.5 % of GDP. The step we are taking now is a bigger step. We can now take a bigger step, because we now have a coalition that is more ideologically coherent than the previous coalition. Those are the right numbers. This gives perspective to future generations in order to be able to count on a fair and correct pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u15	Mr President, I hear Mr Van Quickenborne coming up with figures here, but I have still not received an answer to my observation, namely that in other countries 15% of wealth goes to pensions and that the baby tree is a temporary problem. If one looks at it historically, it turns out that much less children are born today. That is clearly a problem for the baby boomers themselves, which must now be solved. The first reason why not enough money goes to the pension fund is that in the last ten to fifteen years social contributions have been reduced. If you yourself experience it as a problem that the pension fund is not large enough, then you should not do anything about it, and yet it is what the government is doing. We are clearly in a downward spiral in which workers have to work longer, while our productivity has never been so high. Let us simply strive for less work pressure for workers and servants. I also fully agree with my socialist comrades when they advocate refinancing the system, including through a tax on the biggest fortunes. One cannot always make the servants and workers of our country pay.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u16	Mr van Quickenborne, your plea for ideological coherence is a credit to you, but I am a little surprised. The next step would be to call for Flemish pensions, for example. In any case, when you say that Vandenbroucke was not followed by his party at the time, I was here when Minister Vandenbroucke defended his pension reform plans under purple and we fully supported them. I don't know where he wouldn't have been followed by his party. You're talking about Mrs. Tax Shift. I do not know whether you are talking about Mrs Temmerman or Mrs Becq, because there are quite a few members of your ideologically coherent team who also argue for a tax shift. Maybe you made a mistake. I have the impression you've been mistaken on several occasions. In any case, I know, Mr Van Quickenborne, that both the expert group since 2003 and the ageing committee have always said that the financing of the pension system will be linked to labour market reforms and policies to keep more workers at work longer. That will certainly be an important pillar. The Committee of Experts also always stresses the need to look at additional funding from assets. I remember the ideological debate on the third pillar, where the Committee of Experts also considered that tax deductibility or the budget related to it might best be recycled to the legal system. Those forms of alternative funding should be examined with a view to a sustainable social system and pension system. I am not alone in saying this: I referred to the Committee of Experts, but I could quote here long texts from the Christian Democratic Group, which demands exactly the same thing. Let us not make it a caricature that we are talking about an ideologically homogeneous government team in the reform process. The essence of my criticism is that we are apparently at step 1 of the degradation here. The ACV study service speaks of a spoon-by-shop breakdown. This will affect civil society's belief in the future of social security and pensions in particular. By putting forward repeated new interventions, such as the work up to 67 years and now the abolition of bonuses, I think you are playing a very dangerous game here, because you are undermining the credibility of our social system as a protection against poverty for people of age.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u17	Mr President, we are now at the heart of the debate. We fully agree with the diagnosis that we need to do something about pensions. Immobilism is not an acceptable working hypothesis. The various analyses of the Study Committee on Ageing have shown this to be sufficient. On the other hand, what we are contesting, as we were contesting the reform under the Di Rupo government led by Mr. Van Quickenborne when he was a minister, these are the choices made. There are alternatives to the choices made in the report of the National Pension Commission. You have done some Cherry Picking by taking what you were interested in and ignoring other equally important dimensions that do not appear in the texts that are submitted to us piece by piece. This leads to unbalanced reform. Like the Di Rupo government, the Michel government decides to make pension reform by reducing pension entitlements, whether in terms of career or future pension for pensioners. The alternative financing component of social security, on the basis of the fact that wealth formation has changed considerably over the last 30 years, is being carried over to the Greek calends. You are completely unaware that one career is not the other, including in the public service. There are more difficult and difficult careers that need to be taken into account. Otherwise, you will have the same effects as after the Van Quickenborne reform. It is a transfer from the pension budget to the disability sickness budget because when people are no longer able to work, they are no longer able to work, even if you make other laws. As far as pensions are concerned, the solution involves different employment policies than those you propose with an index jump, with a wage limitation without compensation on the part of employers in terms of job creation. The aim is to have more people at work and sufficient social security funding. The reforms you are gradually proposing in the area of pensions and in other areas are breaking the social contract between all Belgians. My impression is the same as my impression at the end of 2011 when Mr. Van Quickenborne proposed his reform. Finally, the aim is to divert Belgian citizens from the first pillar of pension, the most efficient and fair, and to promote private pension systems that are more unequal, more expensive and, above all, more uncertain. The responsibility of a Minister of Pensions and a government is to provide stability and sufficient funding for our system, other than reducing the entitlement of future pensioners as you do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u18	Mr Bonte, it was Mr Tobback, who at the time, if I am not mistaken, declared that he knew what he was supposed to do as a politician, but that if he did, he would not be elected again. He said that in the context of his competence the Environment. On the other hand, he undoubtedly wonders every day how he can be elected again. In any case, the reality is that he has done nothing for both powers. Then Mr Daerden passed. I've always had a lot of respect for him. By the way, he did a very interesting study and wrote three different books. I have based myself on this, in order to carry out the first reforms in the previous government. Secondly, Mr Bonte, you say that it is the first step towards degradation. Now you use the discourse used by the trade unions in 2011. When, with Di Rupo in the lead, we began to reform pensions, the language of the trade unions was that this reform meant destruction and that it was the first demolition of pensions. You were part of the government at the time. At that time, you showed responsibility and said that we had to do this reform. What we are doing now is a second step, which is more fundamental. I admit that, especially when it comes to the statutory retirement age of 66 to 67 years. However, Mr Hedebouw, it all fits in with the same logic, namely that if we want to save pensions, we cannot throw so much more money into it again. You do not see the problem, because it would only be 15% of gross domestic product. But the problem is that in our country public expenditure at 55% of gross domestic product is at the maximum in Europe and probably in the rest of the world. Anyone who claims today that we can add a couche to that and go to 60% of gross domestic product, I will not list the countries where the situation is even worse, today puts a mortgage on entrepreneurship and the creation of prosperity in our country. What we need to do is not to increase expenditure in such a way, but to carry out reforms by making people work longer, taking into account life expectancy. That, by the way, is the philosophy that Frank Vandenbroucke has always advocated. If we do that, I am convinced that we can offer a perspective to the younger generation. By the way, Mr Hedebouw, all the countries in Europe may not be Venezuela and Cuba are increasing the statutory retirement age. Even Greece will have to do that. Germany, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom have done so. Even France, with the socialists, has implemented a modest pension reform. Everyone knows that. Whoever denies that denies the light of the sun.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u19	Speaking of the light of the sun, Mr Van Quickenborne, you say that our pension bill is rising primarily as a result of rising life expectancy. I think you're right about that, if you see where we're from. Just after the Second World War, the average mortality age was about the retirement age. Now we live longer. The big challenge is to get out of the labour market earlier than then. The choice has always been to reform the labour market, which means that fewer workers leave early and more workers work longer. I am not convinced that the statutory retirement age should be raised, you are. According to the Pension Commission, as a result of the demographic change, the government should provide additional funding due to the extended life expectancy. Since 2011, when you were in charge, people have chosen to reduce taxes on labour through wage cuts and to facilitate job creation. The government has to fit in. The expert committee says that this is best done through the capabilities. The question then arises as to whether the tax deduction for the third pillar in the context of pensions is still useful or not. That is not just an ideological debate, but a purely practical one. Moreover, the Christian Democrats have already called for these deductions to be called into question. The current government is leaving that choice. It follows a consistent line in addressing the financial problem of pensions: it builds rights, focuses on longer working hours and removes incentives such as pension bonuses that encourage workers to stay longer working. I think that the ACV and ACW study services are right when they point out that there has been a spoon-by-slice dismantling of rights without providing a perspective for alternative additional funding of the system. That perspective has to come from a tax shift. That perspective is not due to the fundamental division of the majority, even though they are always ideologically agreed. That, I believe, is at the heart of the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u20	Firstly, I am not affected by the fact that certain left-wing parties in previous governments would have gone along with a certain liberal course. You can discuss this with sp.a or the PS. For me it was an effective mistake to go along with that logic and so I don't feel affected by those arguments at all. If you're referring to Hollande in France, he's not my reference point either. I don't think he's taking a left-wing course in France. Greece will be very interesting. The pension debate will begin in June or July. That will be an interesting debate to follow. We shall see what the European Union's attitude towards Greece will be. That is my first important point. Secondly, you are talking about life expectancy. My problem is that you don't make the nuance of who lives in our society long in good health. That's the point. You're looking linearly at how long people live in our society. Mr Van Quickenborne, there is a difference of seventeen years of life expectancy between someone with a higher degree and someone with a secondary degree. As we say at home, we're not all equal in the face of death. In Belgium, not everyone has the same life expectancy and even less in good health. That's what this is about. This gap is even widening with productivity growth in our country. That is my second point. Thirdly, the argument there is no alternative, everyone does it, tout le monde le failure. Look at the direction in which we are going with Europe. Everyone does it, everyone just goes into the abyss and Belgium follows, tous dance le ravin. This compares with Venezuela, but Venezuela's domestic product per person is 20 to 25 times lower than that of Belgium. Stop it. In Belgium since 1960: 3.5 times our domestic product. You are talking about the wealth that is being produced, and about the fact that the active population is too small compared to the number of pensioners. Give people a job. The first problem is the unemployed. If you want to activate, give them a job. And then comes the great myth that no one has confirmed. By working longer, more jobs will be freed for the young. That has not yet been demonstrated, in any study. The only thing that is demonstrated with Sweden, but scientifically completely wrong, is that there would be more young people at work in countries where there is longer work. That doesn't mean anything scientifically. What has been the impact in Sweden of the measure in 2000 to work longer? What do we see? The first measures were taken in Sweden in 2000, i.e. before the economic crisis in 2008. Now, unemployment among young people has doubled over the last eight years. So what is being demonstrated in countries like Sweden is the following. There is evidence that there is a causal link between getting people to work longer and the unemployment of younger people. There is a fundamental debate on what direction we want to take with our society. History teaches us that people have started to live longer since the political decision was made to work less long. This band is obvious: by working less long, health improved and life expectancy increased, and not the opposite. If, on the day the doctors found that life expectancy had increased, the 14-hour day had been reintroduced, there would immediately have been a decrease in life expectancy. You therefore establish a cause link with totally inverted effect. Indeed, if we consider our social history, it is because one day we started to work less as long as life expectancy began to increase.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u21	I will not go into detail about the debates that have already taken place in committee on Sweden. It remains a fundamentally wrong debate, Mr Hedebouw, if we continue to say that tackling unemployment by pushing older people out of the labour market offers more opportunities for young people. You are fundamentally wrong in that regard. As since the 1970s, we have pursued this policy through the introduction of the bridge pension, and the only result of this is high youth unemployment and high old-age unemployment. So it's not a good solution. These are solutions from the past which appear to have not worked and which we urgently need to get rid of. Mr Bonte, you actually said that instead of taking measures of this kind, we should provide for additional funding to cover pension costs. In your opinion, this means that additional resources will have to be made available for the increased burden on pension expenditure, referring to the tax shift. You said it just now, and Mr Van Quickenborne also referred to it. However, I wonder which tax shift you are referring to. If we spend EUR 40 billion on pensions today and we do nothing, the ageing committee believes that this amount will reach EUR 48 billion by 2019. So we need an additional 8 billion. It is calculated at 1.7 billion per year. How will you raise 1.7 billion a year? And quid with the tax shift you will use to reduce the burden on labor? One can only draw a conclusion, in particular that you are in favour of a substantial tax increase. That's your only agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u22	Mr Lachaert, I do not want to continue to have a polemic here, but I would like you to explain to me how Open Vld will do the alternative financing of the reduction, unless you fall back on the remedy of the Kortrijk Congress, where everything will be recovered through spontaneous payback effects. Mr Lachaert, you need to think carefully about what you are saying. I, along with many others, am even Chamber-wide, but I am not sure that I am in favour of an ambitious plan to reduce the burden on labour. This can always be done through alternative funding, unless you say that it has fallen from heaven through the payback effects. In other words, also in the Committee of Experts on Pensions, but in fact, as regards the globality of social security funding, we will have to look more broadly at the funding base than is the case today. We will have to look more broadly. Then I come to the point that apparently causes a little nervousness. Should it be about power, about VAT, about polluting activities, about energy? What's it about? If we say that, you say that we have a tax obsession. You are obsessed that the problem of financing social security with all existing rights for workers and pensioners will be dealt with by cutting people's rights. That is your obsession and that is also the result of draft laws like this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u23	Mr Bonte, I do not think you experienced yesterday's debate. It was a very interesting debate with moments. Some of us are now having the same debate. We were talking about the tax shift yesterday. The tax shift is indeed included in the coalition agreement. The Minister, who was present at the time, replied that the government would do so in the next three months. He also said that there are different views on the matter and that they must be respected. Work will be carried out over the next three months to develop what is included in the coalition agreement, such as the tax shift. We had already decided together to implement three slices of EUR 450 million each in reductions in social contributions. Now the index jump comes on top of that, to restore the competitiveness of our wages. That is what we discussed yesterday. Additional revenue will have to be sought. That's what the coalition agreement says. You are now adding a further EUR 1.7 billion per year. How will you do that, except by significantly increasing taxes?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u24	Mr Bonte, in my capacity as Minister of Finance and Budget in a purple-green coalition, I once reduced the grant rights of 60% or 70% to 3% and 7%. These fees were EUR 30 million per year, and today they raise EUR 230 million per year. It's called fiscal compliance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u25	To put it a little academically, ladies and gentlemen, if the Laffer curve, which you are so dancing with, will be the compass on the basis of which the Open Vld will discuss the tax shift, then I wish you every success. In fact, it is the following: the lower the taxes, the higher the returns? If that is your approach to the debate on the tax shift, I fear that we will not get out for the first three months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u26	I am just a simple pharmacist and would like to put a simple question to Mr Van Quickenborne. You say you want to give hope to the young generation by making older people work longer. Recently I helped my daughter with a talk about Antwerp, which has a youth unemployment rate of 28%. That is why the previous governments, including Minister De Coninck, have put in place a number of incentives to do internship guidance and such. So the young people were wagered. You're letting the elderly work for up to 67 years, but I don't understand your logic. Secondly, when looking at the VDAB's figures, I noticed that a lot of people over 50 don't even get an answer when they send their CV to an employer. I have a number of questions there about how you will solve all this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u27	Mr President, I would just like to say a few words out of courtesy. This is, of course, another debate, because it is about working. Mrs Detiège, we have tried for decades to stop people from working early so that we can provide jobs for young people. Even Mrs De Coninck is convinced that this is not the solution. This is not the way to solve the problem. That is why, as a minister in the previous government, she has adopted a number of stricter measures in relation to pensions and pensions. The question of how to provide workable jobs for over 50 people is a very complex question, as everyone knows. It has to do with, among other things, the wage curve. Mr De Coninck also said this during the previous period of government. This also has to do with a certain flexibility and mentality change for employers. We need to work on this, but we do not solve it by postponing or carrying out a necessary pension reform. That is the biggest mistake that has been made in the past and we do not want to repeat it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u28	Mr Van Quickenborne, indeed, I would argue that people should be entitled to work until retirement. I have consistently defended this. I also believe that we should look at the whole career. I note today that a lot of people appeal to me to point out that after their fifties they were fired by their employer, despite the fact that they perform well. This is not about one case, it is about a lot of cases. As a result, people feel very badly hurt and still have very difficult opportunities in the labour market. The Di Rupo Government has given a lot of subsidies on labour costs, and I therefore believe that a greater commitment from the employers' side could be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u29	Mr President, Mr Van Quickenborne, I hope that the government has calculated the double budgetary effect it will achieve by extending the pension age. Indeed, all studies show that when the pension age is extended, life expectancy decreases. So people will work longer, get their pension later and die sooner. In other words, they will receive their pension less. So you're burning people's pension by "the two ends of the candle," I'd say. I hope that you have taken this into account and that you have become aware that not only are you forcing people to work longer, which is already particularly antisocial, but you are also shortening the lives of workers. In doing so, you commit murder.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u30	To conclude this interesting debate somewhere, I would like to say that it is striking how on the left there is such defeatism, a left-wing defeatism, about the future of older people in the labour market. That's very striking. Fifty-five people would be destined never to find work again, and we cannot do much about it; so we need to give these people systems to get out of the labour market as quickly as possible and stay home. That's basically inhuman and antisocial. On the other hand, we must activate these people and continue to involve them usefully in the labour market. They're not meant to stay home. Look at the Scandinavian countries, where 70% to 80% of the 55-plussers are working. These figures will not be realised, Mrs De Coninck, by simply requiring someone to be employed centrally. Because that's not how it works. We must create the conditions in which we employ people. You must therefore have the courage to look a little wider than the retirement schemes, which you find extremely interesting. Look at the way in which our wage negotiations have been constructed and in which people have been rewarded for years simply because they are getting older, until Europe has told us, you know that, as a former Minister of Labour, Mrs De Coninck, this was no longer allowed and that such a thing was discriminatory to young people. That is why we have replaced that system with seniority, which is not much better, because it leads to exactly the same problems. We must dare to say that there is a problem there. Older people thus praise themselves from the market in collective collective bargaining agreements, which exist in all sectors. In recent years, we have been able to increase the level of activity, also because of the measures we have taken together, from 35% to 41%. We must continue along that road. That is the kind of measure that needs to be taken. We will have to support the elderly and we will have to support them. As you know, the target groups have gone to the regional level. Flanders also continues with this by giving the 55-plussers a discount on the social contributions. So it's not written in the stars that these people won't have a job anymore. We are committed to ensuring that they will have a job.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u31	We have one common objective, namely to guarantee those people the right to work, even when they are older. I have just told you, and I have been reasonably consistent in this, that I find that many older workers are being bullied away from their jobs. It's not even about giving new opportunities, they just can't do their job anymore. You can close your eyes to that, I try not to do so, but I would ask you to take a look at that. I have even told many employers that they are shooting themselves in the foot. It's the same discussion as the one about diversity. It is much better that in a company there are workers with different perspectives, young people but also older people, because those older people are often the lubricant oil in a company. So don't throw them out too fast. I note, by the way, that in the highest class, the managers, the old men are not thrown into the street.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u32	Mr President, I did not intend to interrupt, but Mr Lachaert made me curious by trying to conclude the debate. I don't like his attempt at conclusion. It was rather party-bound and one-sided. Mr Lachaert, I find it difficult, especially as a young politician, for you to believe that people who today, as Mr Gilkinet has done for our group, are protesting or commenting on the pension plans of the current government, would be defeatist. I do not accept that as a young green politician who is very sensitive to the sustainability of our pension system, nor for spreading the effort and underpinning the bill that comes towards us. We need to get hold of these things. The attitude of our group, for example, is not so much defaitistic as rather realistic. It is also based on the experience of many older people in the labour market, who are simply having a very difficult time today. A number of aspects are being addressed here today as possible solutions. The debate on seniority must indeed take place. There is also yesterday's debate on labour costs, as well as the whole section on workable work. The question that we can ask and which the older people in the labour market, who want to stay on the job and who want to work with us for this country and for the preservation of social security, is where the measures in this area remain. The bullying measures for older workers are there. The destruction of rights is here. In the perspective of workable work, however, we read a blank sheet. In this respect, we do not see any concrete measures, even to the extent that, on a regular basis, Members of the majority, I conclude my speech on the subject and discuss them. Mr De Roover writes free stands about it. I have already heard Mr Vercamer and Mr Terwingen make statements on this: now is the time for workable work. Now it's time for action. I would suggest that these points be taken into account. In the meantime, it does not make it even more difficult for people who are already struggling today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u33	Mr Lachaert, obviously speaking of the elders who would like to continue working, there is a clear reference to double volunteering. These are measures that allow both voluntary and non-voluntary exit from the labour market. There is no obligation to leave the labour market. That is the legislative framework we are discussing! In the past, many jobs have been lost, but the bridge pensions would not have created jobs for the youth. The problem was that there was no obligation to recruit those young people. This was not respected. The bridge pension was used massively to reduce the number of jobs. Thirdly, the idea of reducing working time and reducing careers is immensely modern. It is retrograde ideas that want us to work longer. We had exactly the same debate just after the Second World War when there was an increase in productivity. Should this increase in productivity be used to work longer and to work more hours, or should it be used to work less time and to work fewer hours? This is the social debate we have today! This affects me because a large part of the parties agree with this logic of saying that, given that productivity is being increased, we still have to work longer. This is an incredible idea that is quite contrary to the historical process. I hope that in the years to come we will be able to put you back in the face of this kind of retrograde ideas!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u34	Mr President, all the speeches were very interesting, but of course Mr Hedebouw's was the most interesting one. The other participants should not feel attracted, because he is always the most interesting. However, the interventions were not all really relevant. The word endless fits here. Besides Godwin's law on social media, after two or three interventions, the word "Hitler" is always used as a reference to the law of the Belgian opposition, because after two or three interventions the word "tax shift" always falls. It is, as it were, a new version of the law of Godwin. As interesting as the discussion on the tax shift is, I have not fully understood the connection with the draft law before us. I would therefore like to confine myself to matters which do matter, because my fountain pen is empty and I have not been able to write down everything. In the opposition, for example, the word 'alarmist' has fallen, because people are being scared. At the same time, while it is said that people are being deprived of confidence in pensions, alarmist cries are being made here that social security is being broken down, with the word breaking down. According to the opposition, people will lose faith in retirement. With these designs we want to counter exactly the present alarmism. We want to offer perspective. The whole design and the whole pension philosophy that the government assumes is just re-building confidence in the pension scheme. After all, everyone knows that the status quo is not an option and is a form of alarmist peasant deception, contrary to the impression which is certainly intended to create the extreme left. By the way, it is quite easy to say that an increase in pension expenditure to 15% would be a big deal. My fellow Members from the majority groups have already pointed out that we need to see growth of up to 15% in relation to the total public debt, which is already above half. Then the opposition will have to answer the question where, if we want to accept that increase, we will cut it instead, unless you, Mr Hedebouw, make a subtle attempt to increase the public debt to 100 percent in this way. That would be ideologically consistent on your part, which I am sure you can understand. I would also be very attentive to the argument that the baby tree problem is a temporary problem. Firstly, this is not so temporary, because it is still a few decades from now, I hope for those involved. Secondly, if demographics indicate that there are fewer births today, I would like to point out that this smaller number of births in our reproduction system will be the smaller group that will later have to provide the larger group of pensioners with their first pillar pension. Automatism to claim that the problem has arisen without us seeing it and that it will go away without us doing anything about it is, in my view, a totally irresponsible way of dealing with a crucial element of our solidarity. There must also be solidarity with future generations. When I come to young people myself, they almost all accept that it is logical that they will have to work longer. They have seen and read the figures, and as such they have absolutely no problem with them either. They are aware that a particular system must also be affordable and that this can no longer be done in this way. It is this solidarity with the next generations that is crucial in the reforms we are proposing today. It has also been pointed out that consideration should be given to the third pillar. Are we not too generous in promoting this third pillar? In the overall philosophy of this government's pension reform, we are going to work on a more balanced system that does not break down the first pillar, but is an element in a wide-ranging pension structure, of which a second, a third and even a fourth pillar, with the purchase of real estate, are fundamental elements. This system is more balanced, because if one pillar of the system gets into trouble, the other pillars will ensure that people will continue to receive a pension in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u35	Now you're making me all curious, Mr De Roover. I said earlier that it is our assessment that this draft law fits in with further undermining the legitimacy of the statutory pension system by gradually proclaiming the situation in which people may be affected. In this way, people risk losing faith in the statutory pension system.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u36	You're very much involved in that undermining yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u37	Now you say that the legal pillar will be retained, but at the same time you are talking about a third and even a fourth pension pillar. I would like to know what that fourth pillar means. I would also like to address my fellow Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The third pillar has nothing to do with pensions, it is actually a tax support for savings. The third pillar was always criticised, both from our point of view and because of CD&V, especially for the tax stimulus given by a government that has no budget left, to put it mildly. Now you're talking about a fourth pension pillar. Can you tell me what the government intends to do with pensions? What should be understood under that fourth pension pillar?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u38	Mr. Bonte, I just said it. You know what is meant by the fourth pension pillar. A lot of people in this country have their own home. That own home is also an element in building a guarantee at a later age.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u39	With the house bonus surgeries and all that? What are you saying?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u40	If you want to know what I'm saying, you have to listen. That helps a little bit. I have told you that unlike the socialists, who want only to build a state-controlled pension guarantee, we want a broad opportunity for people. That is not something the government invents, it is something people actually do. They too take responsibility for the construction. It is crucial, however, that this reform should therefore be accompanied by this first pillar, and I would like to apologize for the expression 'as a home'. It must provide a clear first basic guarantee for everyone, for every employee. That is the essence of this reform. The fact that we have a well-balanced system in which, for example, the second pillar and other forms of own insurance provision are an element is quite obvious. We can also disagree on this. I have very little problem with that, by the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u41	I would like to try to understand what you mean by the fourth pillar. You're talking about a house. If you could blame the socialists, it may be that they have encouraged people too much to have a brick in the stomach. Anyway, this aside. You're talking about a house. What does that mean? Is the government going to take measures to...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u42	Mr. Bonte, please don't look for nails on low water.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u43	I agree with you that we should listen to each other better. Do you mean that, in the context of the pension issue, the government is considering measures to re-encourage the acquisition of houses? Does this mean that there will be compensation for people who don't have a home?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u44	Of course, you can invent all kinds of things I haven't said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u45	I will ask you in a very general way: what do you mean by a house as a fourth pension pillar? What's the government gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u46	Nothing. I told you that there is a first pillar and that a pension is more than a government system. A pension is also the responsibility of each of us...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u47	You mean capital and savings.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u48	...who also assume their own responsibility through savings and the purchase of a property. We support the idea that people take their own responsibility and that, in addition to a highly developed first pillar, they also take various measures from their own preferences and from their own profile, and that they themselves take steps to prepare the future for themselves. That is a good thing. We have confidence in and support people's own initiative. However, this does not mean that a first pillar should not form the basis of pension formation. I think I have been very clear on that. When I mentioned, for example, the purchase of houses in the past, I indicated a fact. I didn't announce a new policy. If there is a misunderstanding, the discussion ends here. I've reported a fact. We find it very positive that people, in their future expectations and in the way they deal with them, go wider than the government pension in the narrow sense of the word. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u49	I would like to respond to two points raised by our colleague. First of all, I would like to deal with the pillars. You want a strong, but reduced, first pillar that no longer allows for a decent pension. We cannot accept that. You're talking about the second, the third, the fourth pillar. A difference must be made between the second and the other. We put the second pillar in the "pension supplement" category. But he's becoming increasingly fragile. A reduced first pillar and an increasingly fragile second means that we no longer guarantee a decent pension. The first pillar must therefore be strengthened not only in terms of its strength but also in terms of the amount insured. This first pillar is the most solidary and the most secure. The debate on the second pillar, in relation to its generalisation and its performance, its certainty and solidarity to be guaranteed, is obviously important. Compared to the third pillar, the fourth pillar – and the ones we can still invent – you are talking about people who have the capacity to save, not those we want to touch or protect and who represent a significant part of the population. You have to think of all those who don't have an income that makes it possible to have this chance, those who are experiencing a hard blow. I do not agree with you on this concept of enlargement of pillars to ensure a decent pension. You say that young people are ready to work longer. I'll hear it. When you're twenty, you feel eternal, ready to work your whole life. We think we're gonna be in shape for the rest of our lives. But when the years pass, we realize that it is not possible to work any longer, especially when working in certain occupations. That is what I blame for these reforms. What young people want is to be able to work. Before they can work longer, they want to work all the time. I understand that reference is made to the Nordic model and to Sweden, where older people work later in life, and where young people work a lot, and it's beautiful. The problem is that, in some parts of our country, there are not enough jobs to allow this. You have to realize that. I ask you to have a vision about not just some pockets of our population.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u50	Mr President, I would like to respond briefly to the position of the N-VA. First of all, I would like to stress that this is the subject of the debate which I have just heard, namely that the affordability of pensions depends on labour market reforms. Again, we are in favour of lower wage costs and activation, among other things. A reality that you find difficult or not seeing is that at the end of the career a lot of workers are being put at the door. In the current difficult economic situation, employers, if they have to restructure, will still, for all kinds of reasons, put 50-plussers at the door first. On the other hand, 50+ students receive much less opportunities in recruitment than young people. That is the reality. The inclusion of pension rights to encourage workers to stay longer at work is particularly one-sided. We call for a critical review of the entire labour market policy, also in the light of the financing of pensions. Secondly, I have already referred to the tax shift and I will not go back to that. What I would like to comment on is your overall idea of the four pension pillars. Like you, I will encourage those who ask me what to do for their old age to buy a house. That's common sense. In order to be protected from poverty, it is best to have one's own home at retirement age. I absolutely agree with that. Only, and on this point we are very different: do not say that this is a solution for the pension. More and more citizens don't have a euro left to save, let alone buy a house. What the hell does that have to do with retirement? For Mr Daerden, I would like to add the following. He may not know that, as he does not follow Flemish politics. You describe the house as the fourth pillar, but the first thing the new Flemish government has decided is the abolition of the housing bonus. The tax incentive to encourage citizens to acquire a home is the first thing it has abolished. Then we come to the Chamber's office and declare that a home helps to protect pensioners from poverty. We have to do it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u51	Mr De Roover, I note that you are obviously bored with an argument, since you do not answer it! And as you pointed out earlier that my reasoning could be interesting, I will deepen it. There has been an increase in productivity over the years: per person who works today, we produce 3.5 to 4 times more than in 1960. What is the problem of part of this increase in wealth being devoted to the civil servants you want to work longer or to the private sector workers who are exhausted at work? Why can't part of this increase in productivity be devoted to the older ones? This is the essential debate you want us to vote for! The corollary of this question, given the 600,000 unemployed workers in our country, is to know why our elders should work longer than to allow young people to start their lives in the public service, since it is the laws that are subject today, to have work for young people and rest for the oldest.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u52	I think Mr. Hedebouw didn't get it all. We live in a world where competitiveness is international in the light of globalization. If we improve some things in Belgium and others improve them too, we do not really know how to take advantage of them. You have to take that into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u53	I am surprised because competitiveness does not detract from the increase in wealth produced. You know your area very well. You know how much hops make beer that's very good in our country. You know that in multinationals, such as InBev – I come from Jupille, it's a beer that particularly affects me – with 400 workers, we produce three times as much beer as with 900 workers on the Piedboeuf site, so three times as much beer, an increase in productivity from a factor 3 to 4. I'm not going to make you drink three or four times more. The only question I ask is where the wealth produced is, particularly in this sector. I'll tell you: in the pocket of the big brewers, like Mr. InBev or Mr. Brito, who don't care about the excavations! What I am proposing here is that this competitiveness does not change the substance of the debate. We're producing more and more wealth. Let's take a small part of this wealth for our oldest!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u54	It is not hops that produce beer, as you say, it is the brewer! On productivity, we need to compare our economies. If the economies around us also increase their productivity, all this goes back to a draw. We need a comparative advantage. Only then can we remove something from an increase in productivity. But if ours is growing and our neighbours are also growing, we can't get any comparative advantage. However, what can be done as an improvement in the economy is to gain a comparative advantage. If we don't get out of it, we can't make progress. This must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u55	Mr President, this is a review of the basic economy. I'm very interested. But I'll tell you some economic truths. All these innovations really increase productivity. We're producing more and more beer. And stop talking to me about international competition! We don't bring beer from China or India. You know very well that beer exports within a radius of 150 to 200 km. You know very well that all productivity increases are for one thing only: to enrich the main shareholders. Then, when you talk about the noble term brewers, who are we talking about? The brewers are all workers in your sector who today have 6-2, 2-10 hours at night, and are tired of working in Belgian breweries. You're going to ask them to work five to six more years while they're tired of working in your breweries! I find this fundamentally unfair. I think that in fact in your sector, we better get a little bit more from the dividend side and a little less from the workers side!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u56	Mr Friart, you have the floor for one last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u57	Mr. Hedebouw, if you were interested in the brewery a little bit more, you would see that people are not tired of working in the brewery. If there is one sector where we are happy to work, it is in that sector!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I said earlier that Mr Hedebouw was making the most interesting speech, I made him overconfident, because it has now become apparent that he is winding up in the hemisphere with some bizarre things. He was talking about increasing productivity. I do not know if he has noticed that people's living standards have also increased in recent decades. When we tell kids to go to hell, they don't even know what that means anymore. If we give people the choice of converting increased productivity into a higher standard of living or in more leisure time, then they are completely free to choose more leisure time, for example by the possibility of part-time work or by other means. We assume that people tend to opt rather for the conversion of productivity to a higher standard of living. We do not want to deprive people of that freedom either. I would like to comment on what Mr Daerden just said about the second pillar, which would be so fragile. First of all, we think that the second pillar is going to be a lot more fragile, because the supplementary pension law is at least flawed. I am now being cautious in expressing myself and a better legal framework would be appropriate. It is quite wrong to give the impression that the second pillar is fragile, while the first pillar stands as a monument, untouchable by weather and wind. The focus of our debate is precisely that this first pillar is under pressure. We are going through the reform to save that first pillar. That is the essence of the whole pension debate. We are the ones who make the crucial first pillar......................................................................................................................................................................................... That is at the heart of the reform. This is without prejudice to the fact that, in addition to this, we leave room for the people who want to develop their future in other ways. Mr Daerden, I am very sorry to have to say that about people who have savings capacity, as if saving were a half criminal fact for which they are supposed to be responsible. Well, it's not just a factor of happiness. Once again, it gives the impression that those who earn a euro more have been lucky and who have not earned that euro have been unlucky. It is possible that this is the view of the left: people are willless balls in a pinball cabinet and either flipping to one side or to the other. We believe in people who can also take on their own responsibility and who are not merely the playing ball of the factors of happiness and misfortune. That is why we want to give and support people's own responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u59	Mr President, I will of course not react to the last words of my colleague, whom I find at times to be collapsing. I would simply say that today's debate is about pensions in public services, which, essentially at the level of public servants, have a first pillar. In fact, what I said earlier was that we were in a downward levelling logic of this first pillar and that is essentially what we were complaining about. These officials do not have a second pillar or, in any case, very few, because the public authorities rarely have the possibility of insuring the latter. It's an important element. The second important element that I would like to recall is that we are talking about public servants who are seeing their system change while they are in office. So there's a challenge to the rules of the game.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u60	Colleague, I am deeply disturbed that you are making a caricature of the left, which would be jealous that a man works and does not allow him to earn a penny. I did not hear Mr Daerden say that. I didn't say that either. You live with a caricature in your head, Mr De Roover. I give everyone a lot of prosperity, a lot of wealth, a lot of work and a lot of pay. I wish that for everyone. What I do know, though, is that maybe that's what separates us from each other, is that I can't look all people in the eye and say that they need to secure their pension by buying a house. I know a lot of people who work hard and are unable to acquire a home. Take the issue of divorces. A lot of women have worked for a very long time, they end up in poverty due to divorce and therefore have no home. I see quite a few accidents in the society I have in mind, one in which everyone can work, earn and save for a home and have a good pension. I see a lot of accidents: that's what social security is for. So I ask my question again. What inspires your party to remove the first saving measure in the incentives for investment in a home? Like me, you plead for caution. Then why are you abolishing the housing bonus? Explain that to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u61	As far as the capacity to save is concerned, I have taken the word 'happiness' from Mr Daerden's speech. The people who have had the happiness of saving, that is the word and that is the sentence to which I have responded. You're welcome to rest. The housing bonus is on my list and as you wish, I will proceed with that first. Every economist has for years predicted and can also perfectly demonstrate that the housing bonus is a totally wrong measure, which only drives house prices in good times and which is only in favour of brokers working by percentage. Mr Bonte, if you go through some literature on this, you will see it confirmed. I'm waiting in suspense for the countertest from your side, but I'm confident. There are many truths in the economy. I agree with that. However, it is quite obvious that if one artificially reduces the purchase price of houses, people with the same budget simply make a higher bid to buy a larger house. This also appears to be a bad measure, Mr Bonte, which has nothing to do with encouraging the purchase of a private home. How do you suddenly get the impression that we would see the purchase of a house as an alternative to retirement? You continue to put words in my mouth with an improbable temper that I have never spoken. I have said, and I repeat, I think it is not for you, but for the others and for the report, that the purpose of this reform is to ensure that the necessary first pillar can be maintained and that it is of a sustainable nature. That's crucial. In addition, if words have meaning, then the word 'in addition' means: in addition to what I referred to earlier, we think that there is also room for our own efforts. The fact that longer working is constantly framed as the worst punishment that can be done to people is something that bothers me particularly. How is it that, for example in the Netherlands, an average of 10% more than 55 people are active and much more in Scandinavian countries? I would not just like to go with you in this respect, it was also in my text, and I have already said it here: of course, this end-of-life debate is an important part of the whole. That debate has also been announced and it is also provided for in the coalition agreement. I can tell you that my group has already made a great deal of progress and is working on a resolution. However, if we were to continue to apply the principle in this House that, until we can solve everything, we would not take one step at all, then we would remain in the misery and in the swamp, in which pensions are now being steered. We are dealing systematically with each problem, but we have highlighted very clearly the outlines of the overall problem in the coalition agreement. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. We are pushing society a long way forward, as it should be. This reform is a perfect illustration of this. In doing so, this government intends to take an important step towards a sustainable system. After all, whatever one may say about it, in the event of a status quo, the current system is financially unsustainable and pensioners will be the first victims. We want to transform it into a sustainable system that can also guarantee to future generations what we have been able to guarantee to previous generations. That is why we welcome this law, because it shows solidarity, both between systems and between generations. Our pension system becomes fairer if we increase the burden and benefits of all systems and the system becomes more sustainable if we want to show solidarity with young people. They are the ones who, in this respect, bear a very heavy burden from the moment they see the light of day in that country. Recently, and this was referred to by Open Vld-colleague Van Quickenborne, the Planning Office confirmed that the ongoing pension reform is already making very important structural improvements. This reform must guarantee the faith and hope of a good pension system, not just for those who happen to be in it now or who want to jump into it as soon as possible: sauve qui peut, so to speak. We want to ensure that the next generations can continue to enjoy a solid system. We want to restore and strengthen people's confidence in our pension system, which must become a solid system. That is at the heart of the reform, and that is why we call it fair, solidarity and sustainability, all of which our group attaches the greatest importance to. That is why we fully support the reforms you have proposed, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u62	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that I will be shorter. A lot of thought has been said in Mr. From Roover. On behalf of my group, I do not hide our satisfaction: our country is moving forward. Courageous decisions are being taken, which Belgium needs, and which have been postponed for too long. We could have carried out other projects. We must start with a pension project. The bill we are considering today is part of this new momentum that the majority intends to breathe. Indeed, it implements three measures that are planned by the government to sustain our pension system, namely the phasing out of the graduation bonus, starting in 2016 - we say not enough - the removal of the income ceilings that will be generated by an activity in addition to a retirement pension. People are happy with what we are proposing because it will allow them to accumulate additional income. And finally, she proposes the abolition of the pension bonus on January 1, 2015. I would like to review these various measures quickly to highlight their relevance and demonstrate how they are needed to safeguard our retirement system, as well as to increase the employment of our seniors. The objectives are shared well beyond the benches of the majority. As always, it is sometimes difficult to take measures that everyone finds right at the time they are taken. But some will be satisfied after the fact. The first measure, the gradual abolition of the 2030 graduation bonus, is part of a gradual harmonisation of the career conditions to be met in order to access early retirement in the various schemes. This will align the public sector with what the private sector or the self-employed already know. This is not an extraordinary measure. During some periods, differences in treatment were introduced. And today, what we see in the public sector is that we have statutory staff and a lot of contract workers. And in the same sector, we have workers who, depending on their status, do not have the same advantages. With this measure, we are putting everyone on an equal footing. I would like to stress that it is a gradual abolition from 1 January 2016, which will be valid only for the career condition in order to leave early retirement. The increase will, however, continue to be taken into account in the calculation of the staff pension. It is therefore not correct to claim that these officials will have an equivalent pension for a longer career. It's not the same thing. Yes, public sector workers will work longer, but they will have a larger pension in connection with the additional contributions paid. I would also like to point out that the government has given social consultation all the confidence it deserves, since the government has amended its initial draft as a result of this social consultation. This means, therefore, that the government, despite what some claim, is not deaf to the arguments of society, trade unions, employers or other levels of power, especially if they are justified and constructive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u63	Ma'am, I'm going back to what you were saying before we talked about social consultation. You told us that there would be no impact on the pension calculation. I'd like you to explain that to us. You say that there is no impact on the calculation of the pension, and at the same time, you announce that there will be 240 million savings by 2029. This obviously means that the situation will change. Persons, for the same career period, will have lower pensions. It's basic mathematics. You can explain your story any way you like. When €240 million is saved, they are obviously saved directly on the pensions of the persons concerned, who will have changed their system.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u64	You talk more generally. I'm talking about graduation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u65	That's exactly what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u66	I didn't understand what you mean. I am telling you that there is a gradual abolition, of course, at some point in time, but that will be reflected in the pension account, in the calculation of the public service pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u67	I don't think you understand what I mean. I don't even think you understand the effects of the project. [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u68	Colleagues, have you understood what Mrs Fonck meant?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u69	It's very simple. I'll start by being even more platte zak. In substance, I do not believe that you have understood the effect of the bill. In the new system as it will exist tomorrow, the pensioner will receive a proportionally lower pension for the same number of years as a pensioner who is still subject to the current regulations. From the moment you have to take more years, when you leave your job after the same career, you will necessarily have a lower pension. It is obviously on the backs of these pensioners, these workers today and tomorrow pensioners, that you save those 240 million euros, because if there were no impact on the calculation of the pension, you would of course not save 240 million euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u70	When you say so, you do a certain demonstration. We talked about January 1, 2016. The person who gradually goes to work there will work longer but this bonus will remain in the calculation of his pension. You, you consider the 240 at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u71	People are directly concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u72	I'll give you more information later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u73	In addition to what Mrs Fonck has just said, we are not talking about those who will not have the opportunity to recover the number of years lost because they will be stopped by the pension age. Therefore, if they lose seven years of bonus, for example, they will not necessarily have the opportunity to spend the next seven years. They can therefore lose in terms of amounts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u74	The case you are quoting may actually occur for some.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u75	There's more than you think.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u76	I can't tell you how many there will be. Or you, by the way!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u77	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u78	Madam, you have taken action in previous governments. If you had been able to predict the future, you probably would not have taken the measures you have taken in terms of unemployment! Thus, the bill before us modulates the rate of deletion based on the number of years of study. It also introduces a transitional measure to extend to persons aged 55 and over the limitation of the number of additional years of work. This will help to avoid penalizing people closest to retirement age and thus allow everyone to make the best arrangements to better manage their end of career. The government wanted to prevent some persons who were in pre-retirement lay-off from being eligible. The continuation of the diploma bonus will therefore be granted to all those who, at their request, were in a position of total or partial availability prior to retirement or in a similar situation. The same will apply to those who had applied before January 1, 2015, as well as those who, as of January 1, 2015, were in a position to take pre-retirement leave but who continued to work. Indeed, it was not intended to penalize the choice of officials wishing to continue to work and to serve for a few more years, whereas legitimately they could have already been in conditions of arrest. The second point of this bill, which we Liberals are particularly pleased with, is the removal of the ceiling on the accumulation of income generated by a professional activity with a public sector pension. We will now reward...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u79	I come back to your first point. People will have to work between six months and three years longer than they do today and, in my view, it can be more depending on the situation. You said there would be no change in their pension. You have not provided any further answers or arguments in this regard. If you work between six months and three more years, then you will have to work between six months and three more years to get the same level of income. In other words, those who do not extend their careers, will take their pensions faster and will not have a full career. They will therefore be clearly punished in terms of their income. Is there a loss in calculation compared to a similar period in the current system? The answer is of course yes!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u80	You're quoting a very special case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u81	This concerns all cases and not one in particular. The minister himself said that there would be between six months and three years for all. That's how you manage to save 240 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u82	But you can make up for it. I won't come back, I won't convince you. I come back to the ceiling on the accumulation of income generated by a professional activity with a public sector pension. Today, we will be able to reward those who wish to continue working beyond the age of 65 or after 45 years of service within an appropriate legislative framework. This government, the majority, intends to revalue the work and reward those who will work longer. He once again holds the floor, since we will, with this measure, align the systems of workers and self-employed people. I can assure you that some public sector workers are delighted with this measure. We all know that we are living longer and healthier, especially in the public sector. That is why our group can only rejoice that the right to remain active, especially through work, beyond the retirement age is further strengthened. It is also our commitment, at the same time, to look after those who want to take a well-deserved rest at the age at which they can do so, while being able to rely on decent income. I come to the third point. The bill before us provides for the abolition of the pension bonus. Various studies have shown that it does not encourage people to work longer. It's a choice the government has made. I know you don't share it, but it's the majority's choice. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u83	I have also been in opposition; I respect it. In return, it was decided to abolish this measure while maintaining the bonus entitlement for those – and again, it is complex – who, before 1 December 2014, entered the conditions of an early pension and those who, aged 65, would justify a career of at least 40 years. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for several years now there have been many who, whether the National Pension Commission set up during the former legislature, the institutions, the ministers, including a former minister, are sounding the alarm. It is time to act on our pensions, especially if we want to secure our pension system. We have no choice. I heard Mr. Van Hees was talking about solidarity. We are sensitive to it; do not believe otherwise. We must make necessary and courageous decisions. The only ones that will allow us to increase the employment rate of seniors and above all to guarantee future generations the right to retirement that is so dear to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u84	Madame de Coster, when you say that in the public service and in public services, work is easier, lighter and softer, I think you have a wrong view of reality. In some areas, the tension is very hard. There is not only physical penitibility but also mental penitibility. This is the case for teachers or those who work at public service counters. I can talk about it: my companion is in the case. The work is very hard and exhausting. Learn about people's real social situations! With regard to the pension bonus, your argument is that the majority decided it. That's a little meagre argument. Why was this bonus adopted? At the time of the Generations Pact, in a government of which your party was also a member, it was adopted to pass the pill of this Pact, to already make people work longer and to tackle pre-pensions. The pill's gone. Today, this bonus is no longer useful. Those are your words. The pill, we passed it to the workers. The workers fought against this Covenant of Generations. They didn't win. The struggle continues and it is not over. You lied to the workers saying that you were attacking pre-pensions but that they would have the pension bonus. Today, you take it out. You lied to them about public pensions, too. When people enter the public service, they are told, for example, that they will have a diploma bonus. We know the conditions under which we're going to work, and then you change them. Your policy towards public service workers is therefore completely illegitimate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u85	Mr Van Hees, various studies have shown that the pension bonus did not make people work longer. He didn't encourage them. Other proposals existed, such as a malus. The government has not retained them. The government has made another choice. This is not what you think. Let me say this: when you say "I", I wasn't the one who was there before. I know the social realities of the public service. I said that all workers in the public sector enjoyed rather satisfactory working conditions. I did not say that there were no hardworking workers in the public sector. This is another debate. The minister is committed to talking about this problem, but it is not today that we will be discussing it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u86	Teachers are affected by these measures and attacks on public pensions. Aren't teachers in an area that is recognized by all as tenuous? They won't be entitled to these bonuses. Don't say this is another debate! We are in the middle of the debate. Teachers are a very good example.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u87	The Minister is committed to revisiting this problem of penitibility and will determine who is in a so-called painful position.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u88	Minister, will teachers be part of it? Will the bill passed today not be applicable to teachers? Will their profession be included in the list of painful occupations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u89	I don't know if it's really the teachers who are painful because we hear anything! And it's not by saying something wrong several times that it just becomes...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u90	You're right, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u91	This is the case of my colleague and friend Frédéric Daerden, who has kept repeating since the beginning of this session that we are going to reduce the amount of pensions. This has never been mentioned, and it is not written anywhere! This is obviously not in the intentions of the government, since the aim of pension reform is to consolidate the system and ensure that the generations that follow us continue to receive correct pensions. That is what is at stake. We must stop distilling anxiety and anxiety! What is the purpose of this procedure? The left today is influenced by its master to think of the PTB. Let it be the cdH, the PS, the Ecolos, the master to think is Mr. Hedebouw. Congratulations, Mr. Hedebouw, you are the master of left thinking today! But it is a pastist, conservative left who does not take responsibility, who does not want to take them. That is the reality! I wanted to intervene at the end of the discussions because it seemed more logical to me. But when I hear the counter-truths spoken today, I have to react! For example, that of Mr. Hedebouw, the more we work, the more our life expectancy decreases. This is exactly the opposite when we look at the numbers!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u92	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u93	Mr Hedebouw, let the others talk! I know it's hard in extremist parties, but we have to do it! In terms of longevity today, Belgium, in the ranking, is 28th, with a longevity of 81 years, with an effective exit from work at 59 years, the lowest of all industrialized countries. In the ranking, all European countries arrive before us, with a few exceptions. Let us take the case of Iceland, where the exit from work is highest: 68 years. This country is seventh in the ranking, with 83.3 years of longevity. Closer to us, two countries of the South, Italy and Spain, with a longevity for Italy of 83.1 years, an effective exit from work at 61.5 years, Spain, 82.5 years and the effective exit from work 63 years. Sweden is 9th in this ranking with a longevity of 83 years and an effective exit age of 65 years. So stop saying anything! This is not going to grow in our parliament or in our political system. Stop fooling people, make misinformation! That's what you're doing!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u94	I will take only one example in response to the Minister's attack. Delete the pension bonus, does it not reduce the amount of the pension?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u95	What is the current status of the few measures we have taken in this government to upgrade the pension system? We will actually abolish the pension bonus for an amount of EUR 18 million. At the same time, in the distribution of the welfare envelope, for the years 2015 and 2016, we will increase by 500 million minimum pensions, holiday pecules for pensioners and small minima. Take the balance of what we're doing! I recall that in the previous government, and we assume it, we had increased the welfare envelope by $250 million for the years 2013 and 2014. Today, we're doing double. I'm not saying it's because you're gone. I'll leave you judges. The pension bonus, as I've already had the opportunity to explain, contrary to what Mr. Daerden is saying... because they're tellers! You take the example of the 60-year-old teacher who, because she does not have her pension bonus, at 65, loses 2,200 euros of pension. 187 euros per month for five years. That's right. Except, when she's 60, she can't take her pension. Someone in the public service today can take his pension at 61 and with at least 41 years of career. She has to wait a year to qualify for the pension bonus, i.e., in this case, at 62 years of age. Already two-fifths of what you're talking about. And so on! I know the technique. A famous Socialist Party politician, if I am not mistaken, in the preparation of his speeches, in case of false argument, indicated in the margin "repeated several times or shouting loudly". It's a well-known technique. That is not why it provides truth. As you know – I am not going to repeat Mr Gilkinet's words yet, because he is going to become a star by virtue of being quoted – Mr Gilkinet himself, in committee, said that the pension bonus was used for high pensions, and that it was not actually used for anything. I understand that there is a certain divergence in the left and that Mr Hedebouw, your master at all, is not always 100% followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u96	I am pleased to hear the minister confirm that the abolition of the pension bonus will reduce the teacher's pension. He plays on two-fifths of the amount, and we can refine the calculations together, but he just admitted the principle. It's already an important element. Beyond that, he speaks proudly of the wellness envelope. The principle was created before this government and it was not to compensate for the index jump and the abolition of the pension bonus, it was to contribute to the increase in purchasing power!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u97	Minister, you are right to say that by repeating things, it does not make them more true. I've heard you say the same thing for three to four months and it's not much more true! It's been two or three months since we came out of the studies, figures in support, and you're unable to refute any figure we put forward today with the PTB's study office. Why? Because the numbers are true! You systematically highlight the 59-year-old figure to leave the labour market in Belgium. You know that's not true. The figure you have given to the European Commission is 61 years. In committee, you told me you took the OECD figure. Do you confirm that the figure you have given to the European Commission is 61 years? That changes everything! Because we're on average. You use numbers to prove your ideological theses that you need to work longer. The age at which people leave the labour market in Belgium is 61 years. You take the example of Italy and Spain. You must stress that productivity in Belgium, the intensity of work is qualitatively different from that of these countries. Productivity like the one we have in Belgium has a price! You must know that as a doctor! This price is compote backs, musculoskeletal disorders, stress-related disorders. It is in order to compensate for this productivity and the fact that all these workers are tired at the end of their careers that they must continue to be allowed to leave the labour market a little earlier in order to be able to breathe. That is the reality and you cannot convince public opinion! Public opinion as a whole is against your measures to make work longer. That's what you're afraid of! And you're right to be afraid of the social movement because it's not going to land today. It will continue the fight because in Belgium, with 600,000 unemployed workers, it is illogical to ask workers to work longer!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u98	Mr President, Minister, I would like to return to your table. Indeed, I am familiar with the European benchmarking comparison table. You talked about the prognosis of life. It is important, in my view, to compare healthy life predictions. However, the life prognosis to which you refer are general life prognosiss. Your picture shows an extremely important, if not essential, element. Thus, as you said, the average retirement age in Belgium is 59. It is one of the lowest at European level. This is how you justify – you always repeat this argument – the increase in the legal age of the pension that you raise from 65 to 66 and then to 67, citing the fact that all other European countries have increased the legal age of the pension more significantly. Of course, but they did not start from the same situation as ours, since the average age of retirement was very high there than ours. This is a very important point. If pension reforms were to be made, the legal age of the pension should not be raised to 66 and 67, but rather work on one of our weaknesses, namely the employment rate particularly between 55 and 65, with a view to increasing the average retirement age, which could no longer be 59 years. Emphasis should be placed on all incentive and positive policies, whether qualitative or budgetary, to increase the average retirement age. But justifying, as you do, the change from the legal age to the pension at 66 and 67 on the basis of a European comparison does not stand the way. Indeed, I repeat that the average starting age at European level is significantly higher than ours. This is not the heart of today's debate, but it is the heart of the pension debate. This is a point which, for me, is essential and on which this government has not so far made any progress. I am thinking here of all the policies of articulation in employment and pension, in other words, to be more concrete, of all the positive incentives, qualitative and budgetary policies with a view to increasing the employment rate among the 55-65 age group. It is this point that must be part of the policy to be pursued. However, the government has not done anything in this regard so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u99	Mr President, Minister, I would like to return briefly to the pension bonus. This government always takes the pension committee as an example and talks about plans. We have already argued a number of times that you have to clarify a number of things, while you, and the chairman of that committee, have repeatedly had to look at the whole thing, because it is all connected. However, you do not, you only take out what is useful for you. And you know very well what I'm talking about. Let us, among other things, talk about abolishing the pension bonus. According to the Pension Committee, that's the worst thing that can be done. If people are to be encouraged to work longer, Mrs Fonck, that is also what this is about, and it is not just about raising age. You say to follow the pension committee and get your elements out of it. However, there are a number of elements in the pension committee that you do not take into account, such as funding, the heavy professions, social dialogue and broad support. With regard to the pension bonus, you are now saying that it is not important and that it is actually a bad system. If you take the pension committee as an example, I suggest that you take all the elements, but not just those that suit you well. You do cherry picking and take out those elements that suit you well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u100	Mr President, I would like to say to Mrs Fonck that I did not mention the actual retirement age of 59 on the issue of the legal pension age. It's not the file of the day. I am responding to an argument from Mr Hedebouw, your master to think, that longevity is proportional to the actual retirement age. That is not correct, either in one direction or the other. In Belgium, we have an effective retirement at the age of 59. This will increase slightly, as we have taken action with the previous government and continue to do so with the current government. I hope we're going up a little bit higher. I am based on the lists currently published by Eurostat and the OECD, and not on the studies commissioned by the PTB. I did not even need to criticise this study: all the experts, particularly members of the Pension Reform Commission, chaired by Mr Vandenbroucke, did so for me by saying that it was not based on any serious basis. In Belgium, the effective retirement age is 59 years and the longevity is 81 years. In many countries, longevity is higher, as is retirement age. I'm just making a point. This analysis should be refined, and further studies should be carried out, as this depends on the health system and other factors. But it's not true to say that automatically, when you raise retirement age, you reduce longevity. It's misinformation. I understand that you cultivate notions like propaganda, misinformation, manipulation. It is always the practice in extremist parties. However, these methods seem very questionable to me and I cannot agree with that. Mrs Fonck, we are not conducting the 67-year-old debate today, but I understand your point. You assume that since the effective retirement age in Belgium is low, the legal pension age should not be increased. This is obviously totally wrong. In particular, it is because foreign countries have planned to increase the legal age of the pension that they have gradually drawn all ages and careers upwards. This is the result achieved in the other European countries and elsewhere, I would point out that if you want to reach the actual average retirement of 63.5 years in the OECD, you are not necessarily going to get everyone to work until the age of 63. There are long careers, there are exceptions. There are people who will continue to work up to 60 and 61 years of age and that is normal since they have careers started earlier. Above all, it must be based on the length of the career. There are people who started working at 16, 17, or 18. Of course, they are not going to be working until 63.5 years, which is the European average for exit. If you want to keep up with that average, there has to be a part that works three more years, since there's a part that works three less years. It's mathematical. If you don't do this, you'll never get that average of 63.5 years. So we have to be logical in the analyses we do. It is necessary to allow people who have heavy jobs or who started early to leave the pension earlier. Indeed, we believe that someone who has a difficult physical work and who has started at the age of 16 must not work until the age of 67, or even until the age of 63. If you want to allow for the consideration of penitibility, there must also be a part of it, which is far from being the majority, which works up to 65, 66 or 67 years of age. This is the real debate and it is the way to approach things with a certain logic and consistency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u101	I would like to note, however, that the minister has spoken of a commission in relation to the fact that he has possibly paid an academic for the studies he has carried out. I am disappointed by this type of argument and I would prefer that you remain at the scientific level to try to refute the studies brought by the PTB. Unfortunately, you don't. I come to my second point. I think the assembly should know that, as you said in committee. I'm not saying we're about 61 years old. I mean that in the White Paper on the ageing of the European Union, the figure given by Belgium is 61.2 years for men. Minister, can you confirm this figure here at the Assembly level? We have to stop making it look like the 59-year-old is the only one running around. You take the number that suits you. You yourself said that this was the OECD figure. Here I am referring to the White Paper on Ageing from the European Union. Can you confirm at the assembly that the average starting age is 61.2 years? I showed you the board in committee. You told me that, indeed, this number had been returned but that you preferred to take another number, different from that one.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u102	There is, of course, a margin between the different figures from Eurostat, the OECD and studies on ageing. The figures also vary depending on whether one considers retirement or departure outside the actual work activity, which are two different things. Of course, criteria that are not exactly comparable result in different figures. It is true that in the last two years, particularly as a result of the measures we have taken and my predecessors have taken, the actual average retirement age tends to rise. Luckily. This is also the case in other countries. The average of European countries tends to increase as well. We remain one of the "bad students" in this area. We must take account of this particular situation in Belgium. To ignore it would be irresponsibility, it seems to me. I call on everyone to analyse the situation objectively and to take appropriate action. So far, I hear a lot of opposition criticizing all the measures we are proposing, but I do not hear a constructive proposal to change the system. So far, I've never heard anything. That is truly disturbing. I would like to say to Mrs Fonck that she is obviously right: pension reform cannot be isolated from the reform of the labour market, from the question of employment, etc. This is what the government is doing decisively. The government's priority is to foster employment policies, foster business competitiveness, reduce the burden on work, and thus foster job creation in our country. This is the government's priority objective, and pension reform is never only part of this priority objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u103	The other European countries did not change the statutory pension age when the average starting age was 59. They did it much later. Taking advantage of the attitude of other European countries which would have raised the legal age of pension beyond 65 when they had such a situation as ours in Belgium, let me tell you that this is incorrect. Besides, you don't make it a possibility. You could have made it a faculty for those who want to go beyond the age of 65. You do, by the way. But you do not just make it a faculty: you make it an obligation, since it is the legal age, the ceiling, that has risen. This means that, in fact, those who are now going to the end, that is to say, up to 65 years of age, who were among those who were already making the most efforts, will be punished and will have to, while they are already making much more effort, go up to 67 years. Minister, I can see that the government's speech, and in particular yours, has evolved recently. A few months ago you said that you were going to raise the legal age of the pension to 66 and then to 67 and that this was going to affect a large majority of people. Over time, you have evolved and you say, a little embarrassed, that there will be only 10% of people who will have to work at 66 and then at 67. We have made many alternative proposals. One of them is a major issue, which you do not grasp at the level of this government, and concerns the employment of 55 to 65 years old. You say that you lower social charges but with the index, we are still far from a real tax reform to reduce the cost of labour in terms of taxes and social charges. Beyond that, where are the policies for the articulation of employment and pensions for seniors? If you do not – and all the experts agree – and if you do not make these end-of-career adjustments, the workers will not take their pension because you will have changed the rules but they will not continue to work either. They will then move into a disability scheme. There, nothing will have been gained in terms of an increase in the effective retirement age. However, this is obviously the fight that must be able to carry out in a positive way if reforms are to be carried out not only ambitious but also effective in the area of pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u104	As part of this project, I would like to return to the fact that it is part of a coherent and comprehensive package that will be added to this first step. It binds the various parties of the majority who have signed the government agreement. The government is showing its responsibility, the minister has just responded. Finally, in the context of social consultation, transitional measures have been provided for in order to prevent the reforms from taking the worker by surprise. This will allow pensions to be spread and better taken into account. We believe that this reform is responsible and proportionate, but above all absolutely necessary to protect future generations. We believe that this project respects public servants by also organizing this transition between the old and the new regime. I would like to tell you, Mrs Fonck, that this reform is part of a series of other measures taken – as Mr Fonck has said – by the previous governments, then supported by the PS, sp.a. and cdH. Some seem to have forgotten that, under the previous legislature, the pension bonus system had been revised, that the amounts had been recalculated and that the conditions for access to the early pension had already been reformed to increase the employment rate of seniors. You have to know what's true. At that time, you were in the majority. These measures then passed much easier. What, then, is our objective? It is a matter of making public servants work a little longer, but above all of protecting our social security system and, more specifically, our pension system.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u105	Mr President, we have just had another debate in the hemisphere on a number of measures relating to the pensions of workers, while the draft before us is the first to deal with public sector pensions. In doing so, we are launching the reforms that are being discussed for that group. The agreements reached in the coalition agreement are now ahead of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u106	Of course, not all measures are equally pleasant. What I hear on the ground, however, is above all the question of clarity. Many people understand the need to work longer, but want to know where they stand. That is an important element of the draft before us today. We clearly say that longer working is an element in this. At the same time, we are trying to reduce the differences between the systems of employees, self-employed workers and civil servants. We also want to take steps forward in this area. These steps go in the right direction, but we still need to work on them. I hope that this can be done operationally quickly, with an opinion from the newly created pension committee, with the discussion on the heavy professions, in dialogue and consultation with the social partners. That is an important additional element in today's debate. What are the concrete measures? That has already been clearly stated: the gradual reduction and eventual abolition of the diploma bonus for officials. This reduction is to be borne by the former retirement age, by the calculation of the career, but not by the calculation of the pension amount. This does not diminish: the two, three, four or five years of studies can still be added for the calculation of the amount of the pension. This brings us a little closer to equality between the different systems. Today there is also the possibility for employees and self-employed persons to regularise the years of study, but also this regularization does not count for the career. She doesn't count to retire early. It counts, subject to payment, for employees within 10 years, and self-employed persons may apply for their regularisation before the end of their career. For them too, this does not count for the career calculation. This is an important element in the whole. I hope that we will be able to achieve a further level playing field. There is a gradual abolition of this bonification as a function of the duration of study, it is a progressive reduction. We hope that this will not lead to discrimination between the various groups. I think everyone is satisfied with the clicking system: those who continued to work longer but were eligible for a bonification, retain that right to early retirement, including that bonification. This is an important element in preventing people from retiring faster than they intended. As far as the disponibility regime is concerned, reference was made earlier to education. It is important that we do not create a vacuum for the people who would have been placed on disponibility, but who are faced with the fact that they have to wait to be able to retire early because the diploma bonus is being phased out. We are also pleased with the scheme, which certainly applies to those involved in education where people can benefit effectively from this disponibility scheme before 1 January, if they were eligible before 2 September of that year. We believe it is important that everyone should be treated on an equal footing, and that equality and non-discrimination should not be brought to the fore, but that this September criterion could also be used effectively. In addition to the Diploma Certificate scheme, the same scheme also provided for employees applies to unlimited additional earnings. What is particularly important here is that the sanction should no longer be used as it used to be. If you made 15 % or 25 % too much, you would lose everything. In my view, this proportionality is a very important element, including for those who are not eligible for this unlimited additional income. There has already been regular discussion about the pension bonus. We have also mentioned this in the context of the workers' system. There are two possibilities. Either we want to encourage longer work by introducing a pension bonus, in addition to a pension bonus, which, by the way, was also put forward by the expert committee, or we are continuing with what started in the previous legislature. This means continuing to raise the age for early retirement, so that those who go before should not have to swallow malus. I believe that this is an important element that must be taken into account in giving the bonus that we are not sustaining.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u107	I would also like to emphasise the relativity of this. Before the Di Rupo government, they received 2.2 euros per day on which the conditions were met and continued to work longer. During the previous legislature, we all voted in favour of phasing out that bonus. Firstly, we had to work for a year longer and, secondly, we could not get EUR 2.2 per day, but we started with an amount of EUR 1.5. They had to work for three years before they arrived at the 2.2 euro. So the phasing-out was in place. That is an important nuance that we need to take into account in the story of abolishing that bonus or reducing the opportunities and opportunities to work longer. Of course, more workable work is needed and, of course, it is necessary to appeal to employers to create opportunities for workers in the way they are organised, so that 50+ will also have effective opportunities. It also means a different mentality of everyone, of employers and employees, including colleagues among themselves, also of young colleagues who no longer look at fifty-five-plus as those who have been written off. There is a need for a major mentality change. This draft is before us and we will vote on it later. However, there are other important issues that are still under discussion, including in good consultation with the social partners. This applies both to the public sector and, for example, to the newly created pension committee for the heavy-duty professions and others. Minister, I would also like to draw your particular attention to minimum pensions in the context of mixed careers. In this respect, there is still a link to public pensions. The Government Agreement also provides that the calculation of the minimum pension for mixed careers must be carried out. At the same time, work must also be carried out on the mixed minimum pension, which is still much lower than the minimum pension for employees and the minimum pension for self-employed persons, which has been raised to that of employees. The mixed minimum pension, for those who have a mixed career, remains much lower. I hope, Minister, that you will take action quickly on this subject in good consultation with the social partners and that this will precede other elements which will have to be provided for in the future in the context of the implementation of this coalition agreement. In this way, support can be created, including for those who have a lower income.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u108	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have already had the opportunity to debate on various occasions. I can join you on the question of whether to reform pensions. It's obvious! But do we agree with you? In this matter, there is more than nuance. I submit to you the definition of the term "reform" according to the Petit Larousse: "Reform is to make something important changes intended to improve it". Obviously, you confuse reform with suspension or even deletion. We mentioned this yesterday in the discussions on the bill on employment promotion and, above all, index jumping. Indeed, in the same way as for pensions, you decide to suspend training rather than reform, improve it and therefore to be able to reform it in a positive way. In this project, we do not improve provisions, we abolish the diploma bonus and even more, the pension bonus. You've decided not to reform. Of course, reforms involve efforts by all, but they must be fair and, above all, the measures to be taken must be balanced. This is not the case in this project. This project is even a reflection of two ills that this government is suffering: the first is the lack of a long-term strategy vision and the second is the lack of timely questioning. I will develop these different points. This bill is symptomatic of the evil the government suffers, namely the lack of a strategic vision on work, pensions and the relationship between the two, because the fundamental challenge is to increase the employment rate of older workers. Is it possible for citizens to agree to work longer? I think so, but on condition that they are really motivated - whether they are workers, but also employers - and also that there are incentives and positive policies for the employment of older people. The challenge is to bring their retirement age, now on average 59 years, closer to the statutory pension age of 65 years. Minister, you are going to tell me that this is not the subject of the day, but I find that you have taken it as a habit to drink materials that should rather be considered and reformed in a homogeneous manner. This sausage that you practice is not likely to inspire the confidence of citizens. You are eager to take negative and penalizing measures, but you are slow to take those that are supposed to counterbalance them. I will give you a particularly illuminating example, which concerns heavy trades. I will read you the chapter of the government agreement on pension reform, in which this theme is discussed: "The government is committed to making specific pension provisions, in consultation with the social partners, for heavy occupations in the private sector – employees and self-employed – and in the public sector". If you wanted to work according to an overall logic, you obviously had to come, now or in a second step, but then this project could wait, equipped with the various agreements concluded with the social partners on the heavy trades. That is not at all the position you have taken, Minister. Instead of coming to us with measures that can further convince citizens to work longer, you bring small packages full of negative and penalizing measures. And you continue to do so since, as of April 3, the government passed draft laws and royal decrees, including raising the legal age of retirement, conditions for access to early retirement, raising the minimum age for survival pension, and this for the three pension schemes. As I said earlier on the legal age of retirement, I remember discussions with the Hainaut listheads, during which Olivier Chastel made a very clear commitment not to raise the legal age of pension. Has the world changed in the last eleven months? No.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u109	How? The world keeps changing. But were pension policies so different, eleven months ago? The answer is no. How do you explain these promises and commitments that you made eleven months ago, Mr. Chastel and Mr. Michel, as well as yourself, Minister? You strike in another way. You strike your promises, your commitments, the convictions that animated you, just eleven months ago, since you turned 180 degrees about the pension age. Today, therefore, you decided not to honour the commitment you made just a few months ago. I explained earlier the issues regarding the average age of retirement. I'm not going to repeat myself. The second evil facing this government is the lack of timely questioning. You've done it before. I am thinking of the speed with which you had to go back about the close caregivers, at the level of the royal decrees. I still don't know if you've made a mistake about removing the exemption for social or family reasons or if you've missed that point. The government has had to go back and I am pleased that this is an option that we have widely suggested and defended. The example to be taken here in your text, Mr Minister, as I mentioned in the committee, is the risk of discrimination. Why? Your project risks creating discrimination between different people who submitted their application before 2 September 2015 for pre-retirement or similar statutory status, and I specifically target teachers. If they submitted their application before January 1, 2015, and received a favourable response from their employer before that date, they may be discriminated against against persons who also submitted their application before that famous deadline. They will therefore be in exactly the same situation, but some will not have received a response from their employer until January 1, 2015. We are therefore, in addition, dealing with situations today, which are retroactive to January 1, 2015. Teachers who will be in exactly the same situation, the same reality, who will have had the same careers, who will have the same conditions for being laid off, will be able or will not be able to be placed in pre-retirement or in a similar statutory situation, simply because their employer will or will not have made his decision. This appears to be contrary to the principles of equality and non-discrimination set out in articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution. The categories are comparable. We have proposed in committee that corrections should be made so that there is no unjustified discrimination. We proposed that consideration be given not to the date of approval by the employer, but to the date of application. This would avoid any unjustified discrimination and distinction between teachers or other members of the civil service in very comparable situations. You have dealt with a series of justifications in committee; these are absolutely not convincing. Indeed, you argued that it was not an authentic act and that "we never did this". Yes, I do! This procedure is used in other legislation, such as that of 28 December 2011, or simply in the area of public service pensions, where the criterion used is that of application to the employer, provided of course that the application was subsequently approved by the employer. Your argument in committee therefore does not count. This project clearly introduces discrimination and will have to be corrected. But in the meantime, he'll have done some damage. It is also regrettable that you are waiting for the wrong to be done and for a ruling to be delivered, perhaps, by the Constitutional Court. This brings me to the various measures in your bill, on which I will not extend at length. The gradual abolition of the graduation bonus from 2016, as I said earlier to your colleague from the MR, allows you to save 240 million euros at the expense of pensioners tomorrow and the day after. Colleagues, I do not know if you received the letter from the National Union of Public Services (UNSP), Finance Sector, which conducted a survey of its staff. This survey shows that 88% of the staff are totally opposed to the pension reforms envisaged and which we are dealing with today. UNSP also denounces an issue that has not yet been discussed. Thus, the offers of employment issued by the State, therefore, in particular by you, the Minister, but also by the Minister of Finance, specify that the diploma bonuses will be taken into account. Today, however, you are deleting these promised bonuses retroactively. It is therefore a form of breach of contract by the employer state, a practice which, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, would be interesting to hear from you. I have no doubt that you have received this letter, which has been widely distributed, and that in so doing you will share with us your vision of things. I heard earlier the MR say how proud he was of this project. I do not know whether he can boast of this breach of contract by the employer State, which had nevertheless committed itself to the improvement of diplomas. Another point that I would like to highlight on the upgrading of diplomas is the overlap of several reforms. Again, this particularly affects the teaching staff but also the non-rolling staff of the SNCB whose tantèmes are expressed in 55th. Why? Because they will face a double penalty through the cumulation and concomitance, between 2016 and 2018, of the implementation both of the reform in project in its part "progressive reduction of the valorisation of the years of diploma for the calculation of the career duration which opens the right to early pension", but also of the part "career conditions for the opening of the right to early pension of the 2011 reform". When this reform was carried out in 2011, it was agreed, but first and foremost, it would have to wait for it to enter into force before adding any additional hardening conditions. In this case, this is what you did not do because you give an extra screw, even though the 2011 reform has not yet entered into force for a whole part of the public service staff. It also means that, in relation to the commitment you make in this bill, minister, where there would only be a carry-over of 4, 5 or 6 months in 2016, 8, 10 or 12 months in 2017 or 12, 15 or 18 months in 2018, you will be, for all these people far beyond the promises you have made, which are contained directly in your bill. With regard to the abolition of income ceilings in the event of accumulation with a retirement pension for 65-year-olds or those with 45-year-olds, we consider this to be a positive measure, provided, as I said in committee, that we do not fall into an American-style system in which supplementary income is needed to survive. I come to the abolition of the pension bonus. Should this system be reformed? Yes, of course, and there was reason to make it more effective and efficient. Yes, there is a need to continue efforts to gradually raise the effective age of retirement and increase the employment rate of workers from 55 to 65 in all social security schemes. But to abolish the pension bonus, Minister, goes in the opposite direction to this objective. The current average age of departure is 59. The challenge, the priority, I said, and I repeat, is to develop incentives policies for both workers and employers, so that people stay at work, motivated, longer. No new employment policy is in place to extend the career time of older workers. That's too bad! Perhaps, minister, you will tell me that you will come later with that. But this government is really, more and more, the things that hurt, the brutality, and we are announcing for later, without seeing too well when, other elements that could then prove to be productive and effective. This abolition of pension bonuses, Minister, will generate 16 million euros of savings. This seems derisory in comparison to the potential benefits of a proactive policy to raise the actual average retirement age, currently 59 years, and bring it closer to 65 years. Finally, Mr Minister, you know that I have pleaded, and I am resubmitting the amendment, so that we can take into account dramatic human situations. I have also heard various colleagues from the majority join me. I am, of course, aiming to abolish the accumulation of a pension with a replacement income. For example, a Public Service staff member may work 10 hours a week as a statutory employee and 10 additional hours as a contractual employee. If this person becomes seriously ill, he or she may be automatically placed on the pension as a statutory agent. Previously, a pension could be combined with a disability allowance. Since 2013, one must make a choice and there can be no cumulation, which leads to dramatic situations on the human level. I think you agree with that, at least in principle. I cannot here, since our amendment has been rejected, but I can only argue that we can move forward quickly, because these extremely dramatic situations are not a minority. On the contrary, there is really a significant number of people in this situation. Colleagues, I will not be longer than that, for all these reasons, we will vote against this bill. Yes, we are and remain fervent advocates of reforms, which are indispensable in the area of pensions, but by developing a positive and relevant vision, not by filing piecemeal legislation that is of a penal nature. We want an incentive policy aimed at raising the employment rate of seniors, particularly those between the ages of 55 and 65. A number of tools exist in this case, including qualitative end-of-career adjustments and tax incentives to employers. Mr Minister, I hope that with the Minister of Employment, you will one day at last develop a positive strategic vision in terms of the employment of seniors. If you don't, all these people will either be disabled or even unemployed. So we will not have gained anything from the point of view of pension reforms, which are indispensable for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have already had an interesting debate this afternoon on the draft law on pensions in the public sector, which we have been discussing for some time now. Socially, of course, we face many challenges in terms of ageing. Figures have already been mentioned at the beginning of the debate. They're not lying about it. In 2014, we spent 40 billion on pension expenditure. By 2019, that amount will increase to 48 billion, i.e. 1.7 billion more per year. The challenge is therefore enormous: it relates to state finances and full pensions must be provided for. If we do not get more people working and do not broaden the scope for funding social security and pensions, then we cannot, of course, provide a decent and sufficiently high pension for statutory pensioners. So we need to broaden the basis. For years we have been lagging behind in Europe in terms of the employment of older people in our labour market. That has already been discussed at length this afternoon. Not so long ago, Belgium hit almost entirely behind with an efficacy rate of 35% in the 55-plussers. The measures taken by the previous and current governments have already increased this rate of activity to 41% and it is increasing. This has to do with a number of measures in the private sector, with which we are gradually making the bridge pension more stringent. However, measures are also needed in the public sector. Of course, it is always difficult to reverse certain privileges that exist in statutes. It is not obvious or easy to deliver that message. However, it is also not correct for those who do not enjoy the status of civil servants that rules on early retirement from the labour market become stricter, whereas civil servants would not. The present draft law also wants to extend the rules to the public sector, because longer working is also necessary there. It should be borne in mind, moreover, that the debate is also taking place in the light of a non-significant increase in life expectancy. At 20 years, life expectancy in Belgium, both for men and women, increased statistically by two years. On average, life expectancy for men and women is now 80 years. So we actually live six months longer per disk of five years. The major pension reform, which is actually envisaged by the government and defined in the government agreement, should be around 2030. By 2030, the statutory retirement age will increase, but life expectancy will also increase again by two years. Against this background, very nuanced measures are actually being taken, in transitions, not to brusque people. It is a necessity to keep people working longer and to bring them into the labour market in order to secure our pensions. What's in the bill? Firstly, the diploma certificate, which has already been discussed in detail, has been phased out. Diploma bonus means that officials who require a Bachelor's or Master's degree to be appointed to a level B or level A post were included in the study years free of charge for both early retirement and pension calculation. There is no other statutory pension system in our country for which such a free time bonus system exists for diploma holders. The time bonus is equal to the minimum number of years required to obtain the diploma at the time of delivery of the diploma. This varies between two and three years for a bachelor and between four and five years for a master, with outliers up to twelve years for medical specialists. In the government agreement, it was agreed that a phase-out of the diploma bonus for early retirement would take place from 2016 onwards with six months per calendar year. That intention has already been addressed, which also proves that there is no deafness to the call from the social field. There has been social dialogue. There has been no agreement with the social partners, but there has been consultation and the plans have been adjusted. In November last year it was decided to start the phasing-out only on 1 January 2016. Negotiations were then launched with the social partners on the rhythm of phasing-out. The result is that for those who have more than four years of diploma qualification, the phase-out will be effective in proportion to six months per year. Those who have more than two and less than four years of study bonification see them phased out at five months a year. Eventually, this phase-out will take place over a period up to 2029. In 2030, the major pension reform will be completed, on which there will be a great deal of debate in the near future. Ladies and gentlemen, today, in 2015, we are talking about a phase-out which will extend over 14 years for those most favoured, until 2029. It is therefore not a brutal measure, it is a phased-out measure with transitional measures for those who are close to or benefit from their pensions. It is an exceptional statute, I have already said to you, and in 2029 we will then come to a uniform statute, and then logically, in the logic of the government agreement, we will come to a common statute for workers in that pension system in 2030, in which everyone will be treated equally. Then there is another remarkable element, which was addressed in committee by our group. Simulations of PDOS and the Federal Planning Office have shown that the diploma bonus for access to the pension is phased out, but not for the calculation of the pension. That is important, because the calculations made by PDOS and the Federal Planning Office have made it clear that, if this method is applied, the pension amounts for civil servants will be even higher at the end of the journey. Their careers will be longer because they will have later access to the pension, but their pension amount will be higher in the current calculation. In fact, there is nothing wrong with the fact that people work longer and have a decent pension; of course, one has to be able to pay it. That is the logic that is also being addressed here. There are transitional measures for which 55, 56, 57 or 58 years and even 59 years in 2016. There are also transitional arrangements for officials in disponibility, which is important for the education sector. Those who could have exercised rights and who could have taken up their early retirement and who are in disponibility continue to enjoy the diploma bonus. A clicking mechanism has been used to prevent the rights that a person could have exercised and did not exercise by working longer. That's also the logic that's in the design. Another element has been an important battle point for our group. In the meantime, what has already been regulated in royal decrees for employees and the self-employed in our country is the accumulation of pensions with other income from occupational activities or replacement income. So far, there have been all kinds of rules for cumulation. At present, both employees and self-employed persons are entitled to retain their pension if they are also engaged in an activity if they reach the age of 65 or have completed a career of 45 years. The sanctions in the event of a breach of the lighter cumulative measures are also proportionate and not as drastic as they were before. In this way, we want to encourage people to remain active, even if they meet the requirements to take up a legal and full pension. They will be able to earn more after retirement. This will also enable the knowledge of those involved in the labour market to be maintained and the economy to be turned around. Furthermore, there is the pension bonus. This has already been discussed in detail. Some people used to call that bonus a little venerable the pancake bonus. With the maximum 2.50 euros that pensioners could get by working longer, they could have a pancake with their grandchild. Today it is not even possible with 2.50 euros. The bonus disappears in the future. Nevertheless, the rights are retained for those who had opened that right. That measure can be supported by us. After all, it has never been proven that the very limited bonus meant that workers were longer working on the labour market, which is why we had questions about the bonus. In conclusion, our group will support the draft law because it translates those three measures into legislation in accordance with the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u111	Mr Minister, as yesterday, in the context of the discussion on index jumps, the members of the majority are trying to pass on a measure that is not social in the sense of a better solidarity between all Belgians as being, on the contrary, social and necessary for the preservation of our model. After decades of social progress and the creation of rights, we are experiencing an extraordinary acceleration in the area of social regression, with the present majority engulfing in the breaches created by the Di Rupo government in various fields, particularly in the area of pensions, with the reform that I recalled earlier, the reform of late 2011 which, in an uncoordinated, almost savage way, has re-entered a series of fundamental rights, in particular on the question of assimilated periods, which mainly benefit women in the accounting and constitution of their pension rights. We regret it, not that pension immobilization is an option, but because there is a way to do something other than what you have decided to do in terms of pensions and that you are assuming with a certain bonhomie, Mr. Minister of Pensions, but that is your role. What are the pension issues? They're triple. The first is obvious, which has been regularly highlighted by the Study Committee on Ageing for many years. It is linked to this rejoicing phenomenon, which is the increase in life expectancy. We must have the means to pay everyone's pensions tomorrow. Some believe that this is part of the scope of public expenditure, but within our framework, it is indeed social security expenditure, a deferred wage for workers. We all have a responsibility to find a financial solution to be able to pay pensions tomorrow. The second issue is that everyone can have an amount of income, once they have reached the pension, allowing them to live in dignity. The non-linking of welfare social benefits for more than 30 years, except in part, with the means of the welfare envelope, the dropout of the lowest pensions which will be accentuated by the decision to skip index, even if it is partially compensated, may lead too many pensioners to situations of risk of poverty or real poverty in the face of the evolution of their daily expenditure (health, housing, energy, leisure). We must ensure that everyone receives a sufficient pension. And that is not what I am reading in the text today. The third pension issue, linked to the labour market, is the issue of career duration. This is what our colleagues in Groen call "werkbaar werken", which can be translated as "making working feasible" throughout the career, depending on the evolution of our physical, intellectual, psychological skills, and depending on the length of our work. You mentioned earlier interesting figures concerning the age of access to pensions in other countries. It must be admitted that in other countries, we are much more advanced than we are in Belgium, in terms of offering workers functions adapted to the changes in their age, their physical abilities, to enable them to continue to train throughout life, to change their position after 50 years. I think that the minister is now aware of our attention to the question of the possibility of gradual departure from the pension, of sharing working time among older workers, who accept and are able to continue to work, but perhaps more on a full-time basis, and who could play an economically interesting role in training and mentoring young workers who would replace them. This could be a way of sharing the work available between tired older workers and young people who are only asking for their first work experience. This has existed since the 2000s in the non-market sector dependent on the French Community and the Walloon Region. It's called the Tandem Plan. We believe that this type of formula can meet the third challenge for our pensions: the evolution of the labour market. I have noted – we have already discussed this – that the government agreement and your work plan with the National Pension Conference contained the idea of a half-time pension, which may be approaching what we are proposing; but I note that it is not this project that is currently under consideration. On the contrary, you are proposing a reform whose content is unbalanced with regard to profits and losses for future pensioners. You do not compensate for difficult measures by offering compensations such as the ability to gradually leave work. The reform is split. As part of the experts' report on pensions, you practice Cherry Picking: you take the elements of reform that interest you. At this point, I would say that you are making an abuse of this report, which is scientifically interesting, and which is not devoid of useful qualities and avenues of work. Where is the fulfilment of the commitments made to define the heavy professions, whose workers would benefit from specific conditions of access to the pension or calculation of the pension according to the difficulty of the career? These heavy occupations are also in the public service. Where are these part-time pension projects that I have just mentioned? Where is the alternative funding of our pension system, which is also explicitly included in the opinion of the pension specialists who contributed to the report? It is necessary in view of the evolution of wealth generation in our country, less than before through labour, more by financial income that does not contribute in the same way. Where are these labour market reforms? These are questions that I regularly ask your colleague, Mr Peeters, with the aim of making the career more workable. The reforms that you are proposing at the public service level will have a hard impact on all of its workers. I am thinking in particular of the teachers who care for our children, from kindergarten to university, sometimes in neighbourhoods or in more difficult working conditions, in the legal functions, in the security functions, whether they are police officers or firefighters, and in the FPS Finance officials responsible for the proper collection of taxes. Your colleague, Mrs de Coster, pointed out the inequality between statutory and contractual workers in the civil service, who felt that harmonization was logical. But why harmonize down? Why force everyone to benefit from the least advantageous and ultimately the least attractive conditions? In these circumstances, what will be the attractiveness of a career in the public service tomorrow? In general, we believe that this new reform is contributing, as was the case with previous reforms, to the public's mistrust of our social security system, in this case with regard to pensions. There is a form of breach of the social contract. We fear – as our colleague from the N-VA said in the gallery – that this will not push citizens further into private pension systems tomorrow. The second pillar is more collective than the third. With the fourth pillar, inequality is accentuated. Various studies have indicated that those who benefit from the best benefits under a second and third pillar and hold real estate receive the best wages, and thus benefit from the best legal pensions. Here we see the Matthew effect that reinforces inequalities. It is a costly system since individual savers and businesses benefit from specific conditions in terms of tax deduction to form these supplementary pensions. It is also a dangerous system, as demonstrated by the global financial crisis. It is true that in Belgium, at this stage, we have not had Belgian pension funds that have gone bankrupt, but that exists abroad. We do not want this private pension system to which you seem to us, with the previous majority and this one, to push all of our fellow citizens. We believe that the public pension system in the first pillar is the most effective and fair. This is the one that needs to be strengthened rather than strengthened and made less attractive. That's our analysis, minister. Of course, you may not share it. With this reform, with the other reforms you are announcing: raising the age of access to pensions, with the reform of Mr. Van Quickenborne and without alternative financing of the system, without correction for the lowest incomes, without changes in the labour market, you weaken the confidence that citizens can have in our pension system. More specifically in relation to the civil service, the reading of the opinions of the organisations representing the workers is quite illustrative of how you envisage social consultation and how they can be considered betrayed by the Autorité. They pointed to the sausageing of the "pension" file, the fact of acting before consulting. The National Pension Conference is not yet in place. The question of the standstill, the rights acquired and the commitments made by the previous government - a large part of which is also in the present government -, of a form of truce after the previous reform, the question of a differentiated regime for the functions for which a diploma is required and which will no longer exist with the abolition of the diploma bonus,... We do not endorse. We have often debated it and may still do so on a regular basis. We cannot support the general philosophy behind this first pension reform with regard to public pensions. Reforms are necessary but different from it. I refer more precisely to the three measures contained in the text. The first of these is the pension bonus. You do me the honour to quote me regularly when some colleagues question your choice to delete it. I have said, and I repeat, that the pension bonus as it currently exists is not a redistribution measure, since it benefits those with the best pensions more. So, Minister of Pensions Reform, the pension bonus has to be reformed. You, you delete it. It is a good bleed, as medicine used to practice. I thought you could have a finer approach to the question. How can we reform it? The amounts would decrease year after year, but the start of the bonus should be set much earlier. One of the difficulties is that the first benefit was very late, with lower costs because more progressive. These measures were aimed at correcting the amount of the pro-rated pension. The aim was to reform the system to maintain an incentive to work longer, but more efficiently and under different budgetary sustainability conditions. You have chosen to simply remove the pension bonus as part of a dry economy measure. We do not think that this is the best way to act. The second element of the reform, at which you pay much less attention, is the removal of the income ceiling after the pension. We debated it in committee. I asked you to try to find out more. Who is limited today in his earnings at the time of retirement? What will be the impact of the youth employment measure? Like you, I believe that, if you are in good physical and psychological health, working for a long time - including as a volunteer - at retirement is a healthy way to stay fit. But admit with me that it's not given to everyone. Also agree with me that the measure to remove any ceiling entails a significant cost. You mentioned the amount of $30 million a year. I question the impact of this abolition in terms of income deciles. Is it, as you said in committee, people with small pensions who work with such high wages that they reach the ceilings to complete their pensions? Moreover, I would not like that to become the norm in our country. Or are they people who are lucky enough to have important assets, whether they are intellectual or financial, who earn a great deal of money and who, while waiting to assert their rights, could do without their pension? Are there any specific studies in this regard now? Has the issue of impact on youth employment been measured as well? When a job is available, if it is occupied by an already retired person or by a young worker, it is not the same with regard to the impact on unemployment. It is a question I ask myself by not denying, and do not make me say what I did not say, the interest of remaining active as long as possible. That's my personal intention. You can remain active in an unpaid, volunteer setting, as can be done in a paid job as well. The third element is the abolition of the diploma bonus. This measure will have a significant impact on the career and pension amount of public service workers. This is a change along the way, in the course of a career for current public service workers. The same is true for those who have started studying to join the Public Service. I am thinking in particular of future teachers. They did so knowingly. Of course, that doesn't mean you can never change anything. However, let us be aware that, in relation to validated principles of essential social law, including at European level such as the standstill, you are changing the rules along the way. You change them the same way for workers, whether or not there is a diploma requirement at the time of entering their careers in the Public Service. This was stressed, but some specific functions, such as teaching functions, require a diploma, a pedagogical qualification, as well as certain functions at the FPS Finance level require specific degrees. You also do not take into account the fact that one career is not the other. That's generally true, it's true in the public service. I have cited the example in committee and I repeat it here because it is dear to me, teachers working in the motherhood. They have to take care of more and more classes. The teaching standards depend on Ms Milquet and the French Community. It is not unusual for teachers to decide to take part-time credit, part-time credit, 4/5th time or simply wish, from a certain age or at a time of their career, because they can no longer bear the psychosocial burden that this represents, access to the pension, even if they have a lower pension. The pension is calculated on the basis of the length of the career. All these options, by the addition of Mr. Van Quickenborne with regard to the abolition of the valuation of time periods and yours, will no longer be possible. What impact will this have on the teachers concerned? I believe that this reflection is entirely transferable to technical and professional fields. To unilaterally decree that we will have to work longer, without checking the reality of each other's career is a mistake. A specific reflection is necessary, beyond the adjustments made following the consultation with the three Ministers of Education. The consequences for the quality of our teaching, in a specific way, but also for the civil service will be quite heavy. Another thought which I would like to make here about the increase in the length of the career, which will be the result of the abolition of this diploma bonus: this will lead, as we have seen in the context of the first pension reform, to a transfer of the budget. As a result of the first reform, the number of people leaving our system of sickness and disability before the pension has increased, forcing workers to work longer, regardless of their state of health or the length of their career. This is more a transfer of budget than a solution of difficulties. I would also like to highlight the impact on youth employment. We are in a context where, in some subregions, skilled, motivated, job-seeking young people do not find them. Why should older workers be allowed to exhaust at work in this context? Not everyone has the chance to have a job with a sustainable physical load throughout a career. Why not think about alternative formulas, as we propose them, for sharing available working time? Why did you eliminate credit-time opportunities, regardless of career? Minister, all of this makes us think that this reform is unbalanced, that it will have a very strong impact on the attractiveness of the public service and that if the pension system is to be financed tomorrow, we cannot continue to do so by reducing the future rights of pensioners. Alternative formulas are needed: alternative financing of social security and improvement of the career which must be the counterpart of any desire to raise the pension age. We do not see all of this. It's a feature of this government: yesterday we were talking about index jump and they say that after that the tax shift will come. This morning, we are discussing with Messrs. Geens and Van Overtveldt of registry fees and perhaps additional revenues will be used to provide access to justice. Here, in the same way, you decide on measures that will have an impact on the lives of thousands or tens of thousands of our fellow citizens without working on the other conditions that can improve our pension system. I shall mention, for example, alternative financing; raising the lowest pensions sufficient to enable a decent life for all; a fundamental reform of the labour market to improve the career and allow for the sharing of working time among older workers, who must be able to pick up gradually and prepare for their access to pensions and young people who are asking for only one thing: to free up employment to enable them to have their first work experience. You will certainly have understood that we will not support your text and that we are calling for other pension reforms than those under consideration today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u112	Minister, the FDFs are not in principle opposed to all the aspects of the reform that you are considering. Citizens are probably ready to make an effort, but they must be able to trust you. Expertise seems to us to be an essential element of trust. For the FDF, only a comprehensive reform designed in consultation with our country's leading pension experts and in consultation with the social partners is possible. This reform must be technically irreproachable and respect the interests of present and future generations. That is not the case. This bill is part of a government agreement that provides for other measures that go in the same direction, i.e. requiring workers to work longer, while removing incentives to do so, such as end-of-care credit and pension bonuses. Although we believe that pension reform should be carried out and even if we are also in favour of a gradual alignment of the three schemes, we believe that this should not always constitute downward alignment. However, your bill proposes downward alignments. What is also unacceptable to us is that the removal of the bonus-board runs counter to the opinion of the experts. It is not objectively defensible. The Pension Reform Committee 2020-2040 has in fact expressed reservations about certain choices made by the government, particularly with regard to the abolition of the pension bonus. To justify the deletion of this incentive, you refer to an outdated study, which some colleagues have already denounced, but I quote again: "It must be stressed that the study committee on ageing, in its opinion of June 2012 on the evaluation of the pension bonus, confirmed the preliminary studies demonstrating that the effect of the pension bonus on career prolongation was limited. The study committee considered that it would be more effective to introduce a longer regulatory career. This is the way the government finally decided to follow." But this is not at all the opinion of the Pension Reform Commission 2020-2040. This notice is dated October 9, 2014. It is therefore much more recent that the study you refer to and emanate from the experts who inspired your pension reform project on the basis of a point mechanism. You may not have read it since you refer to a long earlier report. I therefore quote the extract relating to the bonus-board. The committee's report expressly stressed "the interest of pension bonuses as an incentive to actually stay longer at work. No pension bonus may be set up during periods of unemployment." The report also illustrates "the relatively significant impact of this bonus for smaller pensions as long as we have continued to work." The Commission's report wanted "to give the population a positive perspective, according to which the average amount of pensions could be maintained through an extended career. However, the possible removal of the bonus-board seems to give a completely different signal. But experts are not aware of the reasons why this is now proposed in the government agreement." So experts say they don't understand why you choose to delete this bonus board. We don't understand that either. I would add that the experts are asking for a review of your reform project because you have changed too many parameters in relation to their recommendations. I quote them again: "The combination and abolition of the short-term bonus and the non-adjustment of the calculation of the long-term pension according to the demographic context leads to a reform different from that which the commission had studied and therefore involves a new examination. All this shows that a thorough reform of alternative scenarios is indispensable." I hope you can hear these experts on the occasion of the pension reform that you are preparing. It would also give us time to shed light on alternative scenarios. I will certainly make such a request. We believe that one could very well introduce a form of pension bonus into a comprehensive reform and, why not, into a point mechanism. I personally attended presentations by Pierre Devolder, professor at UCL, who explained this in a very clear way. Therefore, for us, the current system should remain so until real reform is implemented, which would also take into account a new way of financing pensions. The same applies to graduation grants. Your haste to take restrictive measures is in the image of your government, more ideological than pragmatic. We cannot therefore agree to these steps and we will vote against your proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u113	A lot has already been said. I suggest you don't repeat everything. However, I would like to point out one thing. We discussed this bill in committee on March 11. On that day, a trade union action took place. We are reviewing the project today in plenary, and trade union actions are taking place again. One might conclude that your project is not necessarily appreciated by the world of work, even if there may be a coincidence. I will save money for the rereading of the very interesting letter from the UNSP (Union Nationale des Services Publics), since Mrs Fonck did. This was a survey of public servants, which showed that your project – I repeat, so that it goes into your ears – is very largely rejected, as 88% of staff refuse these measures. This project has two main components, the diploma bonus and the board bonus. The first point is a commitment by the State to civil servants, and on which the State returns. Public servants who were engaged in the public service were doing so with this promise of graduation. The consequence is as follows. Let us take a concrete example. An employee who is eligible for an early pension with a career of 38 years as of March 1, 2020 is currently entitled to a 48-month bonus. With your measure, rather than leaving on March 1, 2020, he will leave on March 1, 2023. The other part is the removal of the pension bonus. Let us set the context: it was at the time of the pact of generations. Important social struggles had already taken place. The government was composed differently, but your party was already there. To pass the pill, we gave people this bonus board: "You worked longer, but you're going to touch something." Today, it is still a government commitment that is not being respected. Today, the government decides to abolish this pension bonus with retroactive effect, since it is from 1 January 2015. This means that for civil servants who remain active until the age of 65, a loss of EUR 83 per month and for those who remain until the age of 67, a loss of EUR 187 per month. The two important aspects of this bill, therefore, are working more to earn less. As you have already told us in committee, it is not the same who will work more and earn less. Happy again! Although these are not the same in the current situation, we know that the government has other plans in its drawers and that it does not want to leave them there. This is what must be particularly denounced today: the government applies the frog technique. We put a frog in the lukewarm water and it supports the lukewarm water. Then we increase the temperature and the frog remains until it is ground. At that time, she no longer has the strength to get out of the pot in which she was put. Here you can see that the frog is still moving a little bit and I think it's still going to keep moving a lot! There are other measures planned. There is the extension of quarries to 67 years. There is the calculation of pensions on the basis of tantèmes (1/60th), there is the desire to calculate the pensions of civil servants throughout the career and more over the last ten years, there is the abandonment of years as contractual in the calculation of the pension. There is also the diploma bonus which would be taken into account, not only for the pension age but also for the calculation of the pension amount. CGSP calculated different cases. For example, Mario, 58-year-old customs officer, with all these measures, would lose 426 euros per month of pension and work seven and a half years more. When we look at this bill, we must not only denounce everything that is inadmissible, but also include it in a broader approach, which is based on existing things, including the extension of the reference period for calculating pensions from five to ten years, as well as all the measures that you are going to take after that. I have not counted the index jump, which will also affect pensioners and income replacement tax reductions, which your government has already adopted, and which will also affect pensions. Pensioners are more taxed because of the measures taken by this Government. In the end, what can be said about this reform? It is unfair, illogical and unnecessary. It is unfair because, contrary to what I have heard here and in committee, the pensions of officials are not too high. If you compare them to public pensions in neighbouring countries, we are at the same level. What is the average amount of an employee's pension? It is 1 599 euros net per month. I don't think that's an exaggeration. What is the problem when it is said that public pensions are too high? The problem is that private pensions in Belgium are far too low. The PTB published – and this has been included in the press – figures for private pensions in Belgium, compared to neighbouring countries. At home, the average private pension is EUR 1 155 per month, while in the Netherlands it is EUR 1 861; in Germany it is EUR 1 289; in France it is EUR 1 653; in Luxembourg it is EUR 1 639. When we talked yesterday about index jumps, we found that in our neighbors it was too high; when it comes to pensions, we don't compare with them, because it would be unfavorable. This bill is also illogical. Why are older people working longer, when there are 600,000 unemployed, including young people who are just asking to work? Finally, this reform is not necessary. In 2060, in the worst case scenario, and at the top of the baby boom, pensions would reach 15% of GDP, according to the Study Committee on Ageing, whereas this is the current level in Austria and France. This debate must ask questions of society, namely: how do we want to distribute the fabulous productivity gains that our society has been growing for years? Since 1960, the wealth produced has been multiplied by 3.5. This means, on equal income, that we could have three and a half times shorter careers or three and a half times shorter weeks. You're going to tell me that income has changed, too. It is true that since 1960, incomes have changed. But in the plans that you submit to us here, these revenues do not change. With your index jumps and all the measures you're taking, it's a stagnation or even a decrease in the income you're considering. The two together cause a catastrophic situation. I think the challenge is not, as the government does, to tackle and reduce public servants' pensions. Private pensions should be increased to the extent of current public pensions. And for that, I think there is no shortage of resources. The press recently published the evolution of wealth in Belgium. The wealth of the richest 3 per cent of the population has increased by 27 billion in a year. Twenty-seven billion more for the richest in a year. Don't tell me there's no money to finance pensions!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u114	There are no more speakers on the list of speakers, then the government has the floor. Order of business / Order of business Ladies and gentlemen, after the reply of the government and the replies, I intend to organise the vote on the two completed drafts and then proceed with the draft on the margin of pay. The possible Thursday morning meeting will be cancelled. Tomorrow afternoon there will be a lot of work on the table and we will vote on the wage standard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u115	Mr President, I assume that we will vote on the three drafts that have been dealt with, you said two.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u116	You're right, there's three of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u117	That's kind of against the deal, but okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u118	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I note that the natural, legitimate opponents of the opposition, who questioned me, Mr Daerden, Mrs Fonck and Mr Gilkinet, are not here for the answer. On the other hand, their mentor, the PTB group, is complete. So I'm just going to answer Mr. Van Hees. I assume that the left-wing opposition shares 100% of its views. The first argument I hear today is that of a so-called sausageing. The term has been repeated several times. Some have short memories. The policy agenda was discussed just six months ago in November. We had discussed the whole reform of the pensions that we were considering during this legislature. The projects that are presented to you, which concern authorized work, pension bonus or diploma bonus, are obviously part of the whole reform that we are proposing and which is described in the general policy programme that was approved by your assembly in November. There's no surprise here. I am therefore surprised at your comments on the sausageing or inconsistency of the measures we propose. On the contrary, we are very clearly in the same direction, which is to carry out pension reform according to the coherence we want. This is indeed a delicate, difficult subject and we have decided to take on our responsibilities. Criticism is legitimate. Everyone has specific ideas about what to do. I can hear it. But we have decided to make this reform in order to combine, in a way, the social performance of the pension system with its financial sustainability. That's our goal. We have a number of principles. We are defending a system that gives people more freedom, more flexibility and – this is part of one of the axes of today's project – the possibility of working beyond 65 years without income limits. I hear some people criticise that. Mr. Gilkinet criticized him. We believe that the budget is of the order of 30 million. This is not, of course, an obligation to work beyond the age of 65. It is simply an option that we open and a freedom that we grant. Everyone is free to take it or not to take it. There is no obligation in this regard. I think that is part of the desire to give more freedom to our working system. In the same way, we invoke, because there is no freedom without responsibility, the necessity for the younger generations of today to realize...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u119	You may not have a natural contradictor present, but you have geographical contradictors present. I let you finish the first part of your speech. I can't believe there's a mentor, the PTB, for everyone... Our political group has developed specific arguments, in particular on the sausageing which you have just mentioned. You must admit that you only have the stick, without the carrot. Ms Fonck has developed very clearly the aspect of end-of-career, work and employment. This is not currently included in the file you are submitting. How can we promote employment among the 55-65 age group? The actual pension age is known to be 59 years. That is why Mrs Fonck said that there is no adaptability, such as possible tax measures to encourage or other measures, the adaptation of workplaces, etc. That's what Mrs Fonck said. These are quite specific arguments. There is no mentor in this assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u120	Minister, I want to reassure you. It is not that Mr. Daerden, who kept the file and is not present, did not want to hear you. He knows your arguments anyway. It is on a show with Mr. Ducrame and others to try to tell the public how bad this project is and how much it will cost people. Don't worry! We are taking the floor elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u121	I would like to point out that the government agreement expressly provides for a policy of strong initiatives in the fields of job creation, the fight for the competitiveness of enterprises, the easing and flexibility of the labour market in order also to promote job creation. Promoting job creation by reducing the burden on work is the whole agreement of the government. Of course, both the fiscal reforms provided for in this government agreement and social reforms, such as pensions, are part of this policy of recovery and growth in favour of employment. The government established itself and gained the confidence of the chambers last October. We have already done important work with many texts that have come before this Parliament. We are six months away from the formation of this government and we are working with some speed. Not all of the projects that are useful and necessary for government policy have, of course, yet been examined by the House and the committees. Don't worry, it's coming. You will therefore have the opportunity to further criticize the projects that will be submitted. But with regard to pension reform, very clearly, we are moving forward. The axes are known.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u122	Mr Bacquelaine, I did not hear that you were going to carry a specific pension project, employment of people aged 55 to 60. You talked about employment in general. If it is the promotion of employment, as discussed yesterday, objectively, we know what we think. But we can challenge the substance. Do you have in your boxes, and why not present it at the same time as today's file, a specific project on career development?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u123	Because today we are presenting a project related to diploma bonuses, pension bonuses and authorized work after 65 years. This is the subject of what was discussed in committee. We are discussing the committee's report in plenary. We are working on the topics that are the subject of the program of your session. I can't say more. Be assured that we have pension lines that have been clearly defined in the policy note. I am thinking in particular of the concept of partial pension, which allows for a much more gradual transition between the period of activity and the pension, which is highly appreciated by employers and workers alike. Trade unions are also taking on the concept of partial pension. It is also a way of allowing this shift in flexibility, of ensuring that companies can keep the worker's experience within the enterprise while allowing the worker to obtain half of his pension, for example, and half of his income from work. It is a case that is particularly important and allows people to stay in contact with the labour market when they are older. We will come with a series of proposals in this area. You are well aware of the thrusts of the reform: more freedom, more responsibility with the constitution of the second pillar. It is essential today if we are to guarantee the purchasing power of pensioners tomorrow. We have an obligation to strengthen, democratise and generalize the second pillar.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u124	Mr Bacquelaine, you are announcing reforms, but it is important that I react to something you have just said, namely that employers and workers were in agreement and in favour of a partial pension, that older workers should be kept in employment to enable them to retain the added value of their skills and the acquis within the company. Why did you eliminate end-of-career accommodations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u125	Because these are two completely different concepts. In this case, this is a partial pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u126	Not at all! Precisely! And you're going to go back to it as part of the hard work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u127	You have a knowledge of social affairs and you sit on this committee. Let's be serious! You know very well that the concept of partial pension goes well beyond career breaks and end-of-care arrangements. It is a much more global concept that allows for a gradual transition to a strong labour market involvement and pension rights. At the social level, this is a significant step forward. I realize that today, everyone is in favour of this idea. It needs to be put in place gradually. This is not going to be done in two spoon-to-pot. This is an issue that will be discussed in the context of the social dialogue and on which the Pension Reform Commission has recently planned. Today we are dealing with three topics. The abolition of the diploma bonus is an important subject. I would like to point out that it is not a question of reducing the amount of pensions. Those who claim this is in bad faith, because it is not written anywhere in a text that would emanate either from a party of the majority or from the government. We have never intended, by abolishing the diploma bonus, to reduce the amount of pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u128	The index jump is a decrease in pensions! We will work on three projects at the same time. These three projects together lead to a reduction of pensions by the index jump and also by the non-indexation of the tax ceilings for replacement income and, moreover, by the abolition of the new pension bonus formula, which had not yet been evaluated and which you remove while together we had defended it beak and nails.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u129	If you want to mix everything!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u130	Don't say with naive air that you'll never get a pension! You're getting pensions!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u131	If you want to mix it up, I can do it, too. You easily forget that the abolition of the pension bonus amounts to 18 million euros and that the distribution of 52% of the welfare envelope for pensions amounts to 500 million euros. I can also mix things up! But if we balance, between 18 million pension bonus cancellations and 500 million allowances for minimum pensions and the welfare envelope, there is still a nuance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u132	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u133	Mr Massin, please have some intellectual honesty! You know perfectly well that with regard to index jumps, the government has, from the outset, included a compensation mechanism for pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u134	Not for pensions, exactly! Either you say a counter-truth, or you don't know the file! We had the discussion yesterday. We can disagree on the merits, but let's be honest. Previously, pensioners had indexed more well-being. There, they no longer have indexation and, moreover, they are affected by the non-indexation of tax ceilings for replacement income. Therefore, pensioners are particularly targeted. Don't say we don't get pensions, obviously we get pensions! And you didn't defend your pensioners in this matter. On the other hand, you say that for pension bonuses, it's not so serious, it's only as many millions. If this is only "as many millions," why did you do it? So I think your argument is really bad.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u135	Minister, it is easy to say that "this part" of a bill will not have an impact on the amount of the pension while specifying, as is the case in the general conditions of an insurance contract, "for this small part" of the bill. I have mentioned to you all the measures that the government has already taken and intends to take in the future. I'm thinking about the pension bonus. Pensions are under attack and will still be in 36 different ways. In doing so, pensioners who are already heavily affected will be even more affected. You say that the measure relating to the graduation bonus will have no impact on the amount of the pension. Can you assure us that, in the course of the legislature, no action will be taken to ensure that the graduation bonus would have an impact on the amount of pensions? Can you assure us that this will not happen in this Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u136	Mr Minister, I would like to add a small comment to what my fellow Members have already said. You say the government doesn't touch pensions. On the index jump, she always says that there are compensatory measures. Of course, they do not apply to pensioners, because they have no professional costs. However, you come to that every time and forget in your argument that there is no compensation for pensioners. Moreover, with all the measures that are now being taken, you are reducing pensions once again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u137	Mr President, I repeat that the government's goal is to reform pensions to consolidate the system and not to reduce pensions. It is wrong to say, as Mr Daerden claims, that we are going to reduce pensions. It's the other way around. Very clearly, we do not touch on the career duration, which remains 45 years. Even when the period of activity is extended to 67 years, the 45-year career period will not be affected. A person who does not have a full career in education or in the public service and who will be able to work a little longer will receive a higher pension. That's the reality. It's mathematical and there's no way to do anything else. I take the very concrete example of a person who works two more years, because he or she has a diploma bonus that has been removed; this means that this person, if he or she does not have a full career, will have an additional 2/45th pension. Once and for all, we still have to realize the logic of the system. I don't see how we can't understand that!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u138	Minister, we don't understand your small apothecary accounts. We demonstrated that they were fake. But above all, they are symptomatic of your lack of a comprehensive vision of pension reform. You do not take into account the massive financing of our economy and the growing share of financial income in the wealth produced at the expense of the rest of labour income. You missed the opportunity to say, through your government, that it was important to make a general refinancing of pensions through a better use of the financial revenues which occupy an increasing share: more than 7 points of GDP in 30 years in the wealth produced. That's why your little apothecary accounts dissolute us. You're going to scratch here and there to say that you're doing a big pension reform. Mrs Onkelinx said this: this actually translates into a reduction in pensions because there will be an index jump, etc. Unfortunately too, rents will be indexed and will weigh on the budget of pensioners who are tenants. And there's a lot of them. You also delete the pension bonus. With the age of 67, you have an ideological trophy, but you don't see the essential: our economy has changed face. Unlike the previous government, you do not take advantage of your ministerial portfolio and presence in the government to get the money where it is to structurally refinance our pensions. That is what is desolating!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u139	Mr Laaouej, I am of course convinced that we will not agree. We have a particularly strong will to consolidate the first pillar of pensions. All the reforms we are proposing are aimed at strengthening the sustainability of the first pillar in our country. Those who did not want to reform in that area would take on a very heavy responsibility. They would be irresponsible. That's the truth! We are of course convinced that everyone has rights and that these rights must be respected. We believe that economic growth and recovery in our country cannot be guaranteed unless sufficient purchasing power is maintained for these 2.8 million people. We must ensure that this purchasing power is preserved, that the first pillar is strengthened, and alongside this first pillar we want to generalize access to the second pillar. This is the very essence of this reform and requires a number of adjustments. We will also further harmonize the regimes among themselves. Today, it is true, we are removing a situation that benefits only a number of citizens of the country. It was the public service who received a diploma bonus. We're removing it so they can work a little longer, that's right. Not according to the figures quoted a little bit of any way, as this Minister of Education of the French Community this morning on the radio, who quoted figures completely farfelus, showing a complete lack of knowledge of the file, which causes some concern. A Minister of Education using misinformation, propaganda and manipulation techniques using figures, this does not give a particularly useful message for the youth of this country. I find this rather worrying.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u140	Mr President, it is still staggering to hear the minister tell us that he wants to defend the purchasing power of pensioners and that at the same time he will have his majority vote on an index jump on pensions. That doesn't make any sense, what you're talking about, Mr Bacquelaine!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u141	Minister, you can try to move the figures released by ministers sitting at other levels of authority, in this case the Minister of Education, to farfelus elements. I'm not surprised that you're sweeping the data from the latter with a backhand, but that you despise all the teachers in this way, it's still swollen and captivated! As I have explained several times in committee, and as I said earlier, you are combining measures that have been taken previously with additional layers. The result of the races: teachers will have to work six more years to qualify for their pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u142	No, that's not true!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u143	No, that's not true! I explained it to you and explained it again. You have never been able to contradict these figures. Mr. President, I'm done. This government lacks a spirit of consultation and a responsible attitude so that both can sit around the table and discuss the reality of these figures in order to develop positive solutions for the citizens. Reforming is something that should not be confused with brutality. In terms of pension reform, adjustments and transitional measures could have found something much more respectful of those on the eve or the eve of their pension. You're going to tell me that you've met the Ministers of Education. Of course, but many calls have been made for you to start a responsible discussion. I honestly find, Mr Bacquelaine, that you could have responded to it more proactively, but above all more respectful – not only of ministers, no matter what – but of the people concerned, in this case the teachers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u144	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat that the application of the abolition of the diploma bonus will never oblige teachers to work six more years. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u145	You know that. Are you unable to understand? This poses a problem for a former Minister of Education, especially when it comes to fundamental subjects such as calculation and French.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u146	Have you met the teachers? No.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u147	Of course. I received the three Ministers of Education.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u148	But you didn't meet the teachers! It's very different!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u149	In addition, we negotiated transitional measures, adaptation measures for the original project. That's proof that you're not familiar with the file. Let us take a specific example of a teacher who can now leave at 60 years of age, after having completed a normal career. Tomorrow, in primary education, he will be able to leave at 62 and a half years, after 42 years of career. This means that if you deduct the month per career year that allows you to retire on pre-retirement leave, you have to withdraw three and a half years. In other words, he or she will be able to leave his or her teaching position at the age of 59. Today, she can leave him at 58 years of age, in fact, following a measure taken by a cdH minister that raised the age of early departure on prior leave from 55 to 58 years. That is the reality! A teacher who is in upper secondary education (five years of study) who was previously able to leave at the age of 60, after 42 years of career - including the coefficient of revalorisation - will now be able to leave at the age of 63 and a half, i.e. three and a half years later. But since he can count three and a half years of prior leave, he will be able to leave at 60 rather than 58 years, i.e. two years later. Of course, there is no question of incomplete careers falling under another scheme. But for teachers who have completed a full career and who have started to profess at a normal age, after studies, the abolition of the diploma bonus will result in an additional period of actual activity of one, two, or even three years at the most. When the Minister of Education said, on a prime-list radio program, that teachers will have to work six more years, it is to distil anxiety, anxiety, which, in my view, is not her role.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u150	Minister, did Ms. Milquet or I say that all teachers will have to work six more years? No. Will teachers actually have to go up to six more years for some of them? The answer is yes. And I have explained to you, and this is one of the difficulties, that there is a cumulation of the measures that you are taking today with regard to the upgrading of the diploma, which overlaps with previous legislation concerning the reduction of the minimum age for retirement. So, indeed, for teachers who are under the age of 55 on 1 September, yes, for a significant number of them, there will be an obligation to work four to six more years. What I am asking you to do is to take on the decisions you make and it is true that you are confusing reform with brutality! At some point, it is also necessary to have the audacity to assume them honestly rather than to coat reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u151	I reaffirm, and I am ready to demonstrate it whenever you want, perhaps with a rested head, that these six more years, it's bullshit! This is not based on any reality. All the more so since you forget that we do not receive the preferential tantèmes, we do not charge the revalorisation coefficients. So a teacher doesn't necessarily have to do 40 years of career, you know that. He's got to be 37 years old, that's 40 years old, that's reality, too. When one does not touch the tantèmes and when one does not touch the revalorization coefficients, the removal of the diploma bonus does not translate as you claim, it is intellectual dishonesty and I am ready to demonstrate it whenever you want.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u152	Mr Minister, I can hear you now and again in the debate. When you question the figures, you do not question the principles. You say to Mrs. Fonck, "it won't be six years, it'll be 1.5 years, 2 or 3 years." It is therefore necessary to work longer but you remove the incentive to work longer. You say, "there is no decrease," but earlier you acknowledged that with the removal of the bonus-board, there would be a decrease. You say it is not "187 euros a month, it is three fifths of 187 euros a month", but you acknowledge that there is a decrease in the amount. In other words, you're starting to unblock the status, you're looking at civil servants as privileged, you're only using some of the elements to tell us that you're going to harmonize. You're gonna level down. And this is just the beginning, because you have other projects in your boxes. By doing so, you help reduce the attractiveness of public services and challenge their future quality. That is totally regrettable!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u153	Minister, you're pretending to want to give us a demonstration. You still haven't done it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u154	Yes, I gave the paintings in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u155	I'm going to go back to your paintings, and especially to other paintings. Since you have shown us, but you have not yet done so, I say to you, Chiche! You have also seen tables that do not cover the entire public service. The Ministers of Education came with precise figures and concrete examples. You know them. You know that requests are being made to open up new consultations with teachers. Since you seem ready now to discuss, I say to you, "Shit!" Review the Ministers of Education and try to be attentive to the reality of the situations that are presented to you. Restricting oneself to the generalities and refusing to take into account personal situations, excuse me, but it's a little easy. You have not seen the teachers; do not come here to pretend otherwise! I know that you have a very good administration at the Pension Office, but it does not know all the realities and subtleties between the different schemes and between the Communities. Review them and work very concretely! Among your transitional solutions, some have evolved thanks to the Ministers of Education. But there are still difficulties that are totally unacceptable. Talk to you, Mr. Minister. Concert much more and much better than you do today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u156	Minister, there is another element that you refuse to take into consideration. This is the effective ability to work longer and thus generate additional rights. You don't know that there are more difficult functions than others. As part of my intervention, I have regularly cited the case of kindergarten teachers, but there are other functions within the public service that are also particularly difficult. You said that public service workers would work longer and thus have more pension rights. But they still need to be able to do so, especially since your measure comes in addition to measures taken previously such as the non-valorisation of the credit-time periods specifically used by these workers – take up the statistics, you will see it! – in order to continue to perform a function where you have to be active from morning to evening. I have a proposal that complements Mrs Fonck's proposal. I am speaking here to the chairman of the House's Social Affairs Committee. I propose to receive, in the Committee on Social Affairs, the representatives of the teaching workers of the three Communities and their minister, and let us object. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you have decided to reform the public service pension system without having heard the workers' representatives. We called for and obtained, at second reading, a protocol of disagreement from the public service workers' representative bodies. This is a general opinion. However, we have not been able to get the representatives of the education workers who are the main concerned to be heard. As far as the diploma bonus is concerned, since a diploma is compulsory in order to be able to perform this type of function, in view of the tenability of certain functions – I am thinking of kindergarten teachers – you have acted without consulting the interested parties and without thinking. This must be corrected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u157	Minister, to the question, "Do we have an equal career, will we have a pension reduction?", The answer is yes. And you keep saying, "No, with a longer career, people will keep the same pension." But that's not the point! We have to stop turning around the pot. You always talk about the argument of the problem of career duration. But that's what makes our pensions vary. That is why we released this study last weekend, to compare, in the four countries around us, the height of pensions with equal careers. It is in this context that differences of 13-43% have been found. Stop saying that we are not going to diminish the purchasing power of pensioners! You know that there are still other measures that you are about to vote on the same day as the index jump, which will have a great impact on the standard of living of pensioners. You can't deny that you're going to touch this purchasing power of pensioners. This is truly regrettable, especially since we live here in Belgium with an unacceptable level of private pension, and you are now tackling public pensions, which are the only ones in Belgium to be in the European average. I find it entirely inappropriate on the part of the majority that in these times of crisis, the pensions of public officials are being attacked.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u158	Mr Hedebouw, a person who has worked for 43 years but who will no longer be able to claim a diploma bonus, e.g. two years of higher education, will have his pension calculated over 43 years and over two years for the diploma. His pension will therefore be calculated over 45 years and will be higher and not equal. Of course, we do not want to reduce pensions. But we want everyone to work a little longer, because in Belgium the average retirement age is 59. This is the lowest in Europe, in OECD countries. The employment rate between the ages of 60 and 64 in our country is 23%. It is 41% in OECD and European countries. If you want to ignore this reality, you are doing a very bad service to the population. Once and for all, we must realize that it is essential to make a reform, which, it is true, must be fair. That's the government's goal. But please stop constantly presenting the work as a negative value. To hear you, work is the thing to escape at all costs! Well, no, life is not your artificial paradise! Life is working from time to time. We are going to work in that direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u159	Mr. Bacquelaine, you are famously captivated! You say you believe in the value of work. And yet, today, the majority will vote for a provision that reduces wages. Is it a respect for the value of work? And at the same time, you're pampering the shareholders. You don't do anything about dividends, tantèmes, diamond dealers. What's for a speech? On the other hand, every effort must, of course, be made to ensure that the number of people in employment can be increased as long as possible. You are absolutely right and we share your goal. You're saying that, and we're not, so-called, it's a counter-truth again. But let's look at how we can do this! You delete the pension bonus. It cannot be said that this is in the direction of supporting people to stay in employment for as long as possible. It's even the opposite! You will, through authoritarian measures, punish, prolong careers. What are you doing at the corporate level to put in place arrangements to hire or retain older people? We know that in many companies it is a completely opposite policy that is being developed. In other words, again, you put the burden of an economic and social policy on workers, but never by working through incentives or by putting the burden on companies. That is what is perfectly unfair, minister, and it is not by developing counter-truths, as you have done, that you will convince us!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u160	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of a debate, as far as I am concerned, in which we have all been able to make our point. On behalf of my group, I would like to stress that we are in fact in agreement with what the head of the ACV's study department has written about pension policy, in particular that this government opts for the phasing-out of pensions. Today we were given another illustration of what the man means. I believe that the debate we have just had has shown once again that this is essentially about what we are doing with the legitimacy of our social security system. In other words, to what extent are employers, trade unions and workers still interested in making efforts in the future for the legal pillar and still believe that this first pillar will protect them from poverty when they retire. That is at the heart of the pension debate. Given the way this government is handling it, I'm afraid it's almost a roadbook to bring down that legitimacy. Today we are apparently also voting on the index jump. So that protection is already gone. It has also been announced today in the debate that the retirement age will rise to 67 years and that we will have to talk about the third pillar. At some point there was a fourth pillar. I saw the fellow cd&V guys looking the other way. The fourth pillar, Minister, means save and draw your plan. Buy a house if you can, so you're safe. So these are the signals that this government is sending about our statutory pension system. There is a huge gap between what is advocated, namely strengthening the first pillar, and the gradual dismantling and the announcement of a new dismantling of that first pillar. Minister, we have been on the same committees for a long time. I've noticed that you were a little nervous and even a little pissed off at certain times. I understand that. It is the first time that I have to hear a minister argue that the dismantling of a particular social security sector should serve to save it without a fundamental perspective on additional funding. The debate was about alternative financing of social security at certain times, about a tax shift and so on. The speeches were clear and the majority did not develop any clear vision to strengthen the first pillar. Of course, it is difficult for the Minister of Pensions to make a one-sided story, while the logic would be that, after a tripartite discussion, after a pension debate, after a retirement conference with the social partners, a clear and constructive programme would be made to strengthen the first pillar. Now it has to be done only through all kinds of social dismantling measures, without having any idea of the reinforcement. It seems to be waiting for the debate on the tax shift to get answers to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u161	One moment, Mr Bonte, Mr De Roover wishes to intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u162	Will the debate then be reopened?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u163	We are trying to do so, Mr Bonte.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u164	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I continue to find it striking how Mr Bonte continues to blame us for jeopardising the credibility of social security in general and of the pension system in particular, and for raising arguments that do not go far enough, in order to scare people themselves about a fundamental aspect of what they expect from our social security. Mr. Bonte, you're an arsonist near dry hay. I particularly regret that you are scaring people in this way, because that is the only way you are trying to compromise our reform, while we are just making the first fundamental pillar of pension reform sustainable for the future in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u165	Mr De Roover, you may think that I am still capable of making tens of thousands of people on Brussels streets argue against a certain policy of destruction. You still think I'm capable of doing that. If I play with fire, you'll be the arsonists in the story. Any measure I hear here today to save and strengthen the first pillar is by no means an intervention on the rights of future pensioners or pensioners. I'm not the pyromaniac. What I learned, especially after reading another Belga message on my BlackBerry, is that the pyromaniac has indeed succeeded in playing with fire; after all, they play with fire at the CCOD, the Christian dome of the ACV. Within the Christian dome of the ACV today, the CCOD suddenly announces that it is going to the Constitutional Court against these measures, against the pension bonus. The tactics have changed, but the essence remains the same. The essence is that the majority do not agree on the advent of a fourth pillar and on the strengthening of the third pillar. You do not agree with the majority on this, nor do you agree with the question of whether this is a good measure. Public services are right. The career conditions for civil servants were changed in 2012. Three years later, an additional effort is called for by removing the diploma certificates. This undermines the legitimacy of and belief in the system. We used to have to wait until Sunday to hear that Mr Peeters was in the hands of the N-VA ministers. Today we only have to read Belga, unless someone here believes that the CCOD is going to the Constitutional Court to destroy this bill without the support of at least some of its members on these banks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u166	Mr President, I would really recommend to Mr Bonte that in the area of pensions, however, his past and his responsibilities point out that he should have some control over the subject, so as to be able to correctly interpret the concept of "fourth pillar' without selling fantasies, as he is trying to do here on a permanent basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u167	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in summary at this debate, here are a few words of reaction in two points. First, in relation to public services, this debate shows that your process of levelling down and questioning the specific features of the civil service is well under way. However, we need a public service that is respected, effective and attractive. And we're totally in the opposite direction. Secondly, with regard to pension reform, there is clearly a need for evolution and adaptation. Yes, the first pillar needs to be consolidated with adequate funding, with measures that promote the employment rate of all generations. But not a file of the Saucissonné pensions as you bring it to us, point by point, with a truncated concertation and, on the backs of workers, civil servants and pensioners.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u168	Mr President, the Minister of Pensions, I regret, but it is often so with you, that you have finished on a cartoon. When you're in trouble, you start yelling and caricature the other's words. You don't have a monopoly on "work" value. Work is important. We hope that as many of our fellow citizens as possible will have access to quality work, with the capacity at the end of their careers to lift their feet, to receive a suitable pension that will enable them to live with dignity. That's the opposite, and your speech is full of these paradoxes. You say you want to defend social security. Some of your colleagues have even used the term "sustainable". What are you doing? You mitigate its assurant character and you do not anticipate a sustainable, alternative method of financing in relation to the evolution of wealth. You say you want the Belgians to work longer, but you don't do anything to improve their careers. I take advantage of the presence of the Minister of Employment. Minister, you are reducing the training obligations of companies. You refuse and finally remove what allows them to last in the work, i.e. the credit-time recognized and recorded as part of the calculation of their pension. You say you're for social consultation. You keep saying that, but you are taking reforms against the views of the social partners and, in relation to the specific question that we raised in this reform on public service pensions, you are refusing to hear specifically the reality of the teaching profession. You have a speech but your actions are in total contradiction with the speech. You are undermining the social basis on which this State was created. Reforms are needed, but they must be different from those you put on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u169	Mr President, I have heard the minister defend with the fervour of revealing his reform of the public service pension system. He had the same fergue to say, eight days after taking office, on a television set, that there could be no question of challenging acquired rights. It was your terms, your commitment, and the entire PR campaign suggested that under no circumstances would you undermine the pension plan as it was organized at that time. I said, in fact, Mr Van Biesen, honestly, intellectually, that, yes, it would have to be admitted at some point that we have to work longer, especially at a time when we can indeed hope for a longer life. I had this intellectual honesty. Thank you for paying tribute to him. What is not acceptable is that the reason for your project is simply to give satisfaction to the N-VA. You chose to go after the public sector because you know that's the most important thing for your N-VA partner. That was his first requirement. You isolate this aspect from an overall view of pension reform. What the members of the Pension Reform Commission said in their opinion of 9 October should be read again. "The reform strategy is not yet elaborated in the government agreement. A potential risk is that we will simply change the parameters of the current system unrelated to the structural reform advocated by the Commission." That is what you are doing with this bill: you are touching on parameters without putting this action in the framework of structural reform. Further in their opinion, the experts point out that the Commission's report expressly stressed the value of the pension bonus as an incentive to stay longer at work. That is what is harmful in your pension reform. I am a supporter, indeed, of giving people the opportunity to work longer. Some people may even agree to work beyond the age of 67. The nature of some people's work allows them, with incentives, to adapt the end-of-career schemes. All these things are missing in your bill, because you have only one objective, both through the index jump and through this reform, is to undermine social consultation, because it is one of the fundamental pillars of Belgium. Why should social consultation be undermined? Because the N-VA wants to continue its work of internal destruction of this country through one of the fundamental pillars that ensure its cohesion, namely social consultation, which is one of the guarantees of social peace in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u170	Minister, you are telling us that pensions must be reformed. Yes, pensions must be reformed, but this must not be done by increasing the pension age. Pensions are fully payable. The richest 3 per cent of the population saw their wealth increase by 27 billion over a year. In that 27 billion, minister, I think there is a way to go find a few cents to finance pensions and not have to lengthen careers. Pensions must be reformed mainly by ensuring that today, in Belgium, pensioners are not below the poverty line. That is the real pension scandal today. Pension amounts are not too high. What you need to do is not reduce the amount of pensions as you do, but increase it, in any case those of the private sector. Pensions in the private sector today average €1,155 per month. They are much lower than in neighbouring countries. The comparisons you make for index jumps and the competitiveness of wages, why don't you make them at pension level? What we need to do, Minister, is not, as you do, tackle public pensions by trying to lower them to the level of private pensions. Public pensions are not too high. Public pensions are simply at a normal level: 1 599 euros on average per month, it is not excessive, it is simply normal, and of the same level as public pensions in neighbouring countries. What needs to be done is not to reduce public pensions to the level of private pensions, but the opposite: to raise private pensions to the level of public pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u171	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u172	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (922/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (922/7) The draft law has 26 articles. The bill has 26 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u173	Mr Delizée has his Amendment No. 14 withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u174	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u175	******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u176	Vote on Amendment No 80 of Georges Gilkinet cs on the inscription. (960/8) Vote on Amendment No 80 by Georges Gilkinet cs. (960/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 1) Yes 53 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mrs Jadin voted against. Vote on Amendment No 56 by Marco Van Hees cs for the deletion of Articles 2 to 20. (960/8) Vote on Amendment No 56 by Marco Van Hees cs to delete Articles 2 to 20. (960/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[8]] Yes No. [[115]] No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 83 by Catherine Fonck for the deletion of Title II. (960/10) Vote on Amendment No 83 by Catherine Fonck to delete Title II. (960/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 52 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 14 by Georges Gilkinet cs to omit Article 2. (960/2) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Georges Gilkinet cs to delete Article 2. (960/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 52 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 66 of Meryame Kitir cs on Articles 2 to 4 and 6. (960/8) Vote on Amendment No 66 by Meryame Kitir cs to Articles 2 to 4 and 6. (960/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[22]] Yes No. [[85]] No Abstentions 28 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 65 of Meryame Kitir cs on Articles 2 to 4. (960/8) Vote on Amendment No 65 by Meryame Kitir cs to Articles 2 to 4. (960/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[42]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 63 by Frédéric Daerden cs on Article 2. (960/8) Vote on Amendment No 63 by Frédéric Daerden cs to Article 2. (960/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 44 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 73 by Meryame Kitir cs on article 2. (960/8) Vote on Amendment No 73 by Meryame Kitir cs to Article 2. (960/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes [[43]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mrs Fernandez Fernandez voted in favour. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 55 by Marco Van Hees cs on article 2. (960/8) Vote on Amendment No 55 by Marco Van Hees cs to Article 2. (960/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yes No. [[115]] No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 58 by Frédéric Daerden cs on Article 2. (960/8) Vote on Amendment No 58 by Frédéric Daerden cs to Article 2. (960/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 33 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mr Van Mechelen and Mr Van Quickenborne voted against. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 64 by Frédéric Daerden cs on Article 2. (960/8) Vote on Amendment No 64 by Frédéric Daerden cs to Article 2. (960/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mrs Hufkens voted against. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 75 by Meryame Kitir cs on article 2. (960/8) Vote on Amendment No 75 by Meryame Kitir cs to Article 2. (960/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 52 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 53 by Catherine Fonck on Article 2. (960/8) Vote on Amendment No 53 by Catherine Fonck to Article 2. (960/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 33 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 84 by Catherine Fonck on article 2. (960/10) Vote on Amendment No 84 by Catherine Fonck to Article 2. (960/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[43]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 85 by Catherine Fonck on article 2. (960/10) Vote on Amendment No 85 by Catherine Fonck to Article 2. (960/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u177	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 15 by Georges Gilkinet cs to omit Article 3. (960/2) Vote on Amendment No 15 by Georges Gilkinet cs to delete Article 3. (960/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 50 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mr Van Rompuy voted against. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 76 by Meryame Kitir cs on article 3. (960/8) Vote on Amendment No 76 by Meryame Kitir cs to Article 3. (960/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes [[46]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 16 by Georges Gilkinet cs to omit Article 4. (960/2) Vote on Amendment No 16 by Georges Gilkinet cs to delete Article 4. (960/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 54 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 60 by Frédéric Daerden cs on Article 4. (960/8) Vote on Amendment No 60 by Frédéric Daerden cs to Article 4. (960/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 49 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Mrs Almaci voted in favour. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 77 of Meryame Kitir cs to insert an article 4/1 (n). (960/8) Vote on Amendment No 77 by Meryame Kitir cs to insert an Article 4/1 (n). (960/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 50 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 78 of Meryame Kitir cs to insert an article 4/2 (n). (960/8) Vote on Amendment No 78 by Meryame Kitir cs to insert an Article 4/2 (n). (960/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 44 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 59 by Frédéric Daerden cs to omit Article 5. (960/8) Vote on Amendment No 59 by Frédéric Daerden cs to delete Article 5. (960/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes [[35]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 79 of Meryame Kitir cs leaving out Article 6. (960/8) Vote on Amendment No 79 by Meryame Kitir cs to delete Article 6. (960/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes 49 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Mr Frédéric and Mr Delizée voted in favour. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 57 by Mr Daerden cs to insert Articles 6/1 (n) and 6/2 (n). (960/8) Vote on Amendment No 57 by Frédéric Daerden cs to insert Articles 6/1 (n) and 6/2 (n). (960/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 23) Yes [[42]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 74 from Meryame Kitir cs to insert Articles 6/1 (n) to 6/6 (n). (960/8) Vote on Amendment No 74 by Meryame Kitir cs to insert Articles 6/1 (n) to 6/6 (n). (960/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 24) Yes [[42]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 18 by Georges Gilkinet cs on article 7. (960/2) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Georges Gilkinet cs to Article 7. (960/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 25) Yes [[42]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Mr Yüksel and Mrs Smaers voted against. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Articles 7 to 19 have been adopted. Articles 7 to 19 were adopted. Vote on Amendment No 61 of Frédéric Daerden cs inserting Articles 19/1 (n) and 19/2 (n). (960/8) Vote on Amendment No 61 by Frédéric Daerden cs to insert Articles 19/1 (n) and 19/2 (n). (960/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 26) Yes 44 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 62 by Frédéric Daerden cs to insert an article 19/1 (n). (960/8) Vote on amendment No 62 by Frédéric Daerden cs to insert an article 19/1 (n). (960/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u178	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 67 from Meryame Kitir cs to insert an article 19/1 (n). (960/8) Vote on Amendment No 67 by Meryame Kitir cs to insert an Article 19/1 (n). (960/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 27) Yes 44 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 68 from Meryame Kitir cs to insert an article 19/1 (n). (960/8) Vote on Amendment No 68 by Meryame Kitir cs to insert an Article 19/1 (n). (960/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u179	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 69 by Meryame Kitir cs to insert an article 19/2 (n). (960/8) Vote on Amendment No 69 by Meryame Kitir cs to insert an Article 19/2 (n). (960/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u180	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 70 from Meryame Kitir cs to insert an article 19/3 (n). (960/8) Vote on Amendment No 70 by Meryame Kitir cs to insert an Article 19/3 (n). (960/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u181	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 71 from Meryame Kitir cs to insert an article 19/4 (n). (960/8) Vote on Amendment No 71 by Meryame Kitir cs to insert an Article 19/4 (n). (960/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u182	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 72 from Meryame Kitir cs to insert an article 19/5 (n). (960/8) Vote on amendment No 72 by Meryame Kitir cs to insert an article 19/5 (n). (960/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u183	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 81 of Georges Gilkinet cs to insert Articles 19/1 (n) to 19/9 (n). (960/8) Vote on Amendment No 81 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert Articles 19/1 (n) to 19/9 (n). (960/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 28) Yes [[10]] Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 39 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mr Laaouej and Mr Bonte abstained. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 82 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert Articles 19/10 (n) to 19/15 (n). (960/8) Vote on Amendment No 82 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert Articles 19/10 (n) to 19/15 (n). (960/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 29) Yes 34 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 20 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Article 20 has been adopted. Article 20 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u184	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u185	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is no surprise: as everyone knows here, the PS Group will vote against index jumping. We have respect for those who work. We do not believe that an economic policy can be developed by planing wages. We respect pensioners and we do not want an economic policy to be pursued by reducing the amount of pension they have earned. We have respect for those who are looking for a job, for families, for the disabled, for all those households that live with an allowance and that you will impoverish by the general index jump. We will vote against it, because it is an unfair measure. You put the weight of the effort on the shoulders of the most fragile, but you preserve the income of the shareholders, the dividends, the tantèmes, not to mention the gifts to the diamond dealers. For us, it's a shame! The index jump could have been avoided. It was neither desirable nor necessary for competitiveness. This is one of the worst job support schemes. Yes, companies must be supported to engage, not to support profits and lower wages. In the Liberal majority, members of the CD&V had made a commitment not to skip the index. So these were promises of Pinocchio. As far as we are concerned, it is with determination that we will vote against this measure, in accordance with our values and convictions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, it will not surprise you that the whole PTB group will vote against this index jump, of course, because for us wages are not the problem but the solution. What you are doing today is pushing us more and more into this downward spiral of wage competition between workers in Belgium, France, the Netherlands and Germany. This downward spiral will only lead to one thing, and that is what is happening today in our Europe in crisis: the purchasing power of workers is declining, their consumption is going to decrease, business sales are going to decrease, business jobs are going to decrease and the downward spiral is going to continue. Ladies and gentlemen, continuing so blindly in the economic crisis that liberalism has brought us today seems to us to be a really foolish solution. But we have hope. On 30 December, the government issued a royal decree to keep the workers of ArcelorMittal, Ford and Caterpillar longer and still on the labour market. Yet she has taken a step back. Here's what I hope for. What I hope now is that the vote you are going to vote on today will be able to withdraw it in the coming weeks. Because I tell you: the social movement is not weakening, as has been demonstrated today. The social movement will continue. We will vote against your measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u187	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, sp.a will also vote against the index jump. We have spent weeks and months trying to convince you that what you are doing today is truly unjust and really unfair. You're sitting in the wallet today of the people who work and of the people who get benefits. You will not touch the assets and the people who are capitalist today. That's unfair. We have offered alternatives, while you, colleagues from CD&V, break your election promise. What is worse, you are introducing the index jump only for the working people and for the benefit recipients. However, you have stated that, if income should not increase, rent prices should not increase either. And now you have voted away our amendment that would ensure that the index jump would also be applied to rental prices! You have said that the strongest shoulders must bear the most heavy loads. Ladies and gentlemen of CD&V, you do call for a tax shift. It would adorn you, should you link both themes to each other. We'll see if it comes from it, at least not today. All you're doing today is sitting in the wallet of the people who work. That's unfair.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u188	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these have been fascinating debates. I believe that we have seen the real face of the majority more than ever in the last two days and in the last few weeks during the discussions in committee. Here is a bill for the vote which is unfair, which is an expression of a majority who chooses to unilaterally shift the budgetary effort towards people who are struggling, towards people who work. Here is an index jump for the vote, which is ineffective, which means a blank cheque for employers and which will not lead to the jobs promised, while a targeted reduction in the wage burden would do so and could produce more results. Here is an index jump for the vote, which the Minister for Labour is afraid to release the available opinions and figures, because it has become clear that he will cost the budget. In fact, it is strong, Mr Verherstraeten and Mr Dewael, that it has to come to this. CD&V and Open Vld were both drawn to the voter with the solemn promise, with the hand on the heart, that there would never be an index jump. I read some quotes. That's what I called Alexander De Croo, who said during the election campaign that the index jump isn't gonna happen, 'cause then you're gonna get it from the people'. Well, today CD&V, the N-VA, Open Vld and the MR get the money from the people by opting for an index jump, by opting for that unjust, ineffective method. Today, CD&V and Open Vld choose to participate in the N-VA campaign and the N-VA strategy in order to allow people who are already struggling to carry the budget effort, as well as those who are working. Our outstretched hand to push people forward, Mr Vuye, is sincere. Our hand is not one to push people down, to make it even harder for people. We really want to push people forward. That is why we will not approve the index jump, not before and not after the elections. Mr Verherstraeten, we will continue to argue for fair burden-sharing in our country, for a tax shift and for a fair contribution of the greatest capabilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u189	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in essence, for the government, to "promote employment", since that is what this bill has been pompously called, is to make an index leap. Yet bosses, economists like Bruno Colmant, SME bosses, small traders, but also managers of large companies, said it would be counterproductive because it would simply lead to a reduction in consumption. No, I don't! The government clung, against winds and tides, because it absolutely wanted to make this index jump, a symbol, a flower to hang on to its hat! The unions could have been opposed: you were going to make that index jump. But you did it against the bosses too! Some of them have had the courage and the audacity to say it publicly. In essence, it is not with the promotion of employment, as you imagined, with an index jump, with a reduction in training efforts but also with an index jump for family allowances, by going to reach children and families, that you will be able to create jobs and support our job tomorrow. For us, a real employment promotion policy – the one we should have, which you should have had the courage to put in place quickly, the one on which we thought everyone agreed before the elections – is to move forward with an ambitious tax reform to reduce the cost of labour, reduce the burden, reduce the taxes on labour, to support SMEs and give them a real breath, but also to increase the pocket wage and encourage all those who work. You have made the choice of restrictive policies where you were expected to have an ambitious policy that gives breath to SMEs, which also gives hope to citizens. You have chosen to do so by not respecting the social concertation and, in particular, on this file of index jump. I mean, today, there are strikes. They are citizens who tell you that this government confuses reform with brutality. Strikes are always a failure. Mr Chastel, exactly eleven months ago, we were in a debate where you swore that we would not touch the index jump, that we would not raise the legal pension age. Since then, you've returned your jacket. And in the background, you, too, strike, strike your commitments, strike your promises. And frankly, it's not very pretty.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u190	Is anyone else asking for an explanation of vote? Is anyone still asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 30) Yes 79 Yes No. [[55]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (960/11) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (960/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u191	Vote on Amendment No 6 by Catherine Fonck to Article 3. (906/8) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Catherine Fonck on article 3. (906/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 54 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Karin Temmerman to Article 3. (906/8) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Karin Temmerman on Article 3. (906/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 32) Yes 51 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 7 by Ahmed Laaouej cs to insert an Article 6/1 (n). (906/8) Voice I do not think that is a good idea. 7 by Ahmed Laaouej cs inserting an article 6/1 (n). (906/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 33) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 5 by Catherine Fonck to Article 7. (906/8) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Catherine Fonck on article 7. (906/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 34) Yes 52 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u192	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 35) Yes [[80]] Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (906/10) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (906/10)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u193	Vote on Amendment No 17 by Meryame Kitir cs to delete Article 2. (922/8) Vote on Amendment No 17 of Meryame Kitir cs leaving out Article 2. (922/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 36) Yes 54 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 18 by Meryame Kitir cs to Article 3. (922/8) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Meryame Kitir cs on article 3. (922/8) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? May the result of the previous vote be This vote is also valid for this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u194	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 19 by Meryame Kitir cs to delete Article 4. (922/8) Vote on Amendment No 19 of Meryame Kitir cs leaving out Article 4. [[(]] 922/8) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u195	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 20 by Meryame Kitir cs to Article 5. (922/8) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Meryame Kitir cs on article 5. (922/8) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u196	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 21 by Meryame Kitir cs to delete Articles 6 to 8. (922/8) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Meryame Kitir cs to omit Articles 6 to 8. (922/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 37) Yes 48 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Articles 6 and 7 were adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Articles 6 and 7 were adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 22 by Meryame Kitir cs to Article 8. (922/8) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Meryame Kitir cs on article 8. (922/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 38) Yes 54 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Mr Brecht Vermeulen voted against. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Catherine Fonck to Article 8. (922/5) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Catherine Fonck on Article 8. (922/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 39) Yes [[35]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 23 by Meryame Kitir cs to delete Articles 22 and 23. (922/8) Vote on Amendment No 23 of Meryame Kitir cs leaving Articles 22 and 23. (922/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 40) Yes 52 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Mr Werner Janssen voted against. Vote on Amendment No 10 by Catherine Fonck to delete Article 22. (922/5) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Catherine Fonck to omit Article 22. (922/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 41) Yes [[43]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 22 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 22 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 11 by Catherine Fonck to delete Article 23. (922/5) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Catherine Fonck to omit Article 23. [[(]] 922/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u197	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 12 by Catherine Fonck to Article 23. (922/5) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Catherine Fonck on Article 23. (922/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 42) Yes 54 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 23 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 23 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 13 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 27(n). (922/5) Vote on Amendment No 13 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 27(n). (922/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 43) Yes 52 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Mr Christoph D.H. Haese voted against. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u198	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 44) Yes 79 Yes No. [[55]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (922/10) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (922/10)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u199	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. We will vote on this bill tomorrow, but we are going to deal with it now and discuss it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u200	Mr President, on March 31, the Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law establishing the maximum margin for the evolution of the wage cost for the years 2015 and 2016. In his introductory statement, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Employment recalled that this bill was implementing one of the main points of the interprofessional agreement signed on 30 January by five of the six organisations representing the social partners. Since the social partners had not reached an agreement and the latter had informed the Government that their proposal for mediation did not receive their agreement, the Federal Government itself had fixed the wage margin for the evolution of the wage cost, in accordance with Article 7 § 1 of the Act of 27 July 1996. The Minister briefly commented on the observations of the Council of State, in particular on the fact that setting a different percentage for two separate years rather than a percentage common to both years, as well as the new definition of the concept of the evolution of the wage cost, fell within the competence of the legislature. During the general discussion, several members made a series of questions and comments. Some focused on the status of the royal decrees. Others referred to the comments made by the Council of State in its original opinion. Several interventions have also focused on maintaining the adjustment of wages to index developments as well as baraemic increases, beyond the margins defined by the bill. The majority generally stressed the importance of the project in restoring the competitiveness of enterprises. Finally, some members questioned the relevance of the mechanism, for example, that the project should include elements such as energy costs. In his responses, the Minister went back to the obvious urgency given the imminence of the talks in the various sectors. He also reviewed the status of the measures relating to meal vouchers and the collective agreement No. 90. For the rest, he pointed out that the energy situation was not the responsibility of the Social Affairs Committee. Some members then made a series of replies, in particular on the initial opinion of the Council of State. Other members discussed the desirability of including the energy bill in the bill, as well as the legal and practical issue of retroactivity. The Minister responded to the final observations, confirming that the maximum margin mentioned in the draft did not, of course, include the evolution of the index or any baraemic increases. After it was pointed out that the benefits decided upon remained acquired until the law came into force, the commission proceeded to discuss the articles and vote. Many amendments were tabled by the opposition, but they were all rejected by various majorities. The bill was finally passed by 11 votes in favour, 3 against and 1 abstention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u201	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief because everything was said yesterday, in particular by our group leader. It's Social Regression Week. After the debate we have had on index jump, we are discussing wage moderation. After an unfair and ineffective index jump, the majority and the government decided to push the nail by putting on the agenda the bill that introduces wage moderation. The index jump vote was enthusiastically applauded by some, not applauded by others, some not knowing what to do. After impoverishing workers a little more with the disguised tax that is index jump, the majority now imposes wage moderation by preventing wages from rising. This will hurt the workers. This will hurt the purchasing power, but also the consumption and, in general, the economy. All this has been said and repeated for long hours in committee. We must also stop saying that the government is simply implementing the agreement of the social partners. We all know that there is no agreement of the latter on these points. And because: it is legitimately impossible for workers' representatives to accept both an index jump and wage moderation which, we have sufficiently demonstrated, will lead to an inverted wage gap of more than 2%. Yes, while Belgian workers are among the most productive, their work – this is the first time since 1996 – will earn less than the work of their French, Dutch or German counterparts. The government therefore wants our country to be the driving force behind European dumping, which constantly pulls wages down, which for us is totally unacceptable. On the contrary, we believe that Belgium, like Europe, should be the driving force behind social progress, not the other way around. As far as the Council of State is concerned, it is rather stingy to find that it concludes in these terms: "In the alternative, it can be observed that, for the sake of clarity, it would be preferable to expressly provide that the maximum margin fixed is increased, where appropriate, from the adjustment of wages to the evolution of the index and of the baraemic increases, as was also the case in the previous decrees implementing this provision." But the government did not take this into account, preferring to maintain doubt and legal insecurity. Minister, you have hesitated a little in committee on whether or not baraemic increases and indexation were included in the low margin planned for 2016, I should say extremely low, before confirming that it was not understood. The issue is, however, essential for the conduct of sectoral negotiations and for the freedom of collective bargaining, which your government has already repeatedly undermined, particularly on the issue of index skipping. Therefore, Minister, can you be clear and precise this time and confirm that baraemic increases and indexation are not included in the low wage margin? Since legal certainty is essential, we will again table the amendment that we had already tabled with the Sp.a. Group during the debates in committee. We hope that this time the majority will consider and support it. Still, I have some doubts... I have a dream! In the interests of clarity and legal certainty, can the Minister tell us what he means by "net pay without additional cost to the employer"? Once again, the lack of a definition is regrettable and we can only deplore the lack of rigour of this majority with this text. For this reason, you are aware, Mr Minister, that the Socialist Group is also opposed to this policy of wage moderation, which, with the jump in the index, constitutes an attack on the purchasing power of workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u202	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Social Affairs has been working very hard lately. The bill we are now considering is part of the various measures the government has put forward to protect our social model. The bill aims to set the maximum margin for the evolution of the wage cost that has been determined as part of the cycle of professional and interprofessional negotiations for 2015 and 2016. It should be recalled that both the report prepared in July 2013 at the request of the Di Rupo government by the "competitiveness" and "employment" expert groups and the annual technical report of the Central Economic Council highlighted the loss of competitiveness of Belgian companies vis-à-vis the main neighbouring countries. We talked about it a lot yesterday. The competitiveness deficit hinders the creation of new jobs, but it is all too often forgotten that it destroys existing jobs, particularly in labour-intensive industrial sectors. In the face of this fact, the European Commission has regularly called on our country to restore the competitiveness of our companies. It must be said that our wage cost remains one of the highest in the world. As a result, the federal government has assumed its responsibilities to strengthen growth, create new jobs and protect current jobs and thus workers. He took the decision to limit the margin of increase for 2015 to 0% and for 2016 to 0.5% of the gross wage bill. This refers expressly to a percentage of the gross wage bill, i.e. the total cost to the employer, including all expenses. In addition, for 2016, the maximum margin for wage developments may be increased by 0.3% of the net wage bill, without creating additional costs for the employer. It is mainly the meal check mechanism and non-recurring results bonuses that are allowed for 2016. Social consultation could have led to a balanced, fair and constructive project before us today, but the government could only have seen the blocking of the socialist union. It was therefore up to him to take responsibility to overcome an attitude that seemed to ignore job creation, which seemed to ignore the reality of our companies and the risks that our workers face as a result of the lack of competitiveness. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to ensure the sustainability of our social security system, we must also bet on the sustainability and competitiveness of our businesses, in particular SMEs, the main provider of jobs. The government has already put forward a number of measures in this direction, notably in the framework of Willy Borsus' SME Plan. The bill before us is also intended to pursue this goal. The vote on this text will finally guarantee the legal certainty of the guarantees concluded between employers and workers concerning possible remuneration agreements for the years 2015 and 2016. The MR Group will therefore vote for this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u203	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, half an hour ago you adopted the draft law on the index jump. That'll put you on the people's wallet. Now we are here to discuss the bill on the maximum increase in wages in this country. During the discussions, you said that you were converting the pre-agreement of the social partners. I do not entirely agree with that. Firstly, that agreement clearly states that the social partners have never been able to comment on the index jump itself, and I quote: "Employers and employees differ on the opportunity and usefulness of the index jump." We had that discussion yesterday and the day before yesterday. Secondly, as regards the agreement that you say you are converting into this bill, you can only talk about an agreement if all partners agree. That is not the case here either. For us, it will not be the agreement of the social partners that you are converting here. The combination of the index jump and the modest wage margin that is still being given, not only does this government reduce labour costs with the three neighbouring countries. It has already been drastically reduced in recent years. That is not often said here, but I would like to emphasise that. You will create a reverse situation. Labour costs will evolve more slowly than in neighbouring countries. That will not be for the entire legislature, but for a period of two years. This threatens to undermine purchasing power, and hence economic revival. That's what we're worried about. If we can talk effectively about a small increase in wages, which will certainly not compensate for the fall in purchasing power you have just made with the index jump, then we still have a few questions to ask. During the committee meetings we had a rather chaotic debate on whether the 0.5 percent and the 0.3 percent are in real or nominal terms. In other words, are the barbaric adjustments, and possibly a bit of index adjustment, after the index jump, included in them or not? The draft law is far from clear in this respect. Not only do I say that, but also the Council of State, which has suggested that this should be mentioned explicitly, as has already been done in the royal decrees of 2011 and 2013. That was also the content of our amendment, but you said it was superfluous. If you follow the report, Minister, you will see that it has not always been so clear to yourself either. I have a simple question about that. Suppose a sector submits a collective agreement for a binding declaration in 2016 and provides for an increase of 0.5 percent in the mass of wages and 0.3 percent in the mass of wages without taking into account the possible impact of the baremic systems and indexation, will that collective agreement be declared generally binding? Yes or no will suffice in response, Minister. It will also suffice to withdraw, if necessary, my amendment to that effect. There is also a great deal of uncertainty about the two concepts in your draft law which do not originate in the 1996 law. Nowhere is it determined how the wage margin set out in the draft law, i.e. 0.0 % in 2015 and in 2016 0.5 % of the gross wage mass, total cost to the employer including all charges, and 0.3 % of the wage mass in net without additional costs to the employer, should be included in the labour cost development under the 1996 Law. So I will ask you again a very simple question, to which you can give me a very simple answer: is the 0.3 % wage mass in net relation to the employee or to the employer? As mentioned above, the 1996 Law refers to wage costs, in other words to the evolution of total wage costs for the employer. It has been influenced by conventional wage increases, by baremic increases, by index adjustments and by changes in social contributions. Now you introduce two new concepts. I therefore ask the simple question as to whether the 0.3 % wage mass should be looked at in net terms with regard to the employee or the employer. Indeed, by increasing the tax exemption for employers' meal cheques by EUR 1, whether or not they increase their intervention in the value of such cheques, it would actually mean that if they increase their intervention by 0.3%, their wage costs would be zero. If they do not increase their intervention, wage costs will even be negative. I hope, Minister, that you will be able to give me a clear answer to these two simple questions. This would mean a world of difference for the draft law we are discussing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u204	Minister, we are in the same debate as the index jump, finally. What wages do workers deserve? How are wages adjusted to the cost of living as part of the index jump? How can these wages evolve? There is in the head of your majority a kind of magic thought that postulates that if we limit wages, we will automatically create jobs. This is particularly surprising. This gives us a vision of the worker's salary, income, the reward of work, which we believe is totally wrong. The wage is the reward of the worker, that of his efforts, of his sweat, of his reflection. This is also what allows it to be a consumer citizen who makes our economy work. You do not have a monopoly with this decision which does not allow wage developments for a year, then which allows net wage developments the following year. You're not the first to act that way. My two distinguished colleagues from the Socialist Party and the Sp.a who spoke before me were part of a government that maintained the automatic wage indexation mechanism by chipping a little to mitigate its impact, but which nevertheless decided to freeze wages. For us, wages are something important, all the more so in the context of the last twenty or thirty years, which has seen an evolution in the wage share of wealth produced in Belgium. The wage share, the share of the result of the effort, has decreased. On the other hand, another form of wealth production has emerged, has become more and more important: it is the share of income from capital. French economist Thomas Piketty points out very clearly how, from a certain level of capital, it generates capital and generates income without any extra work effort. It seems to us normal – this is the whole tax shift debate – that these income from capital also contribute to the financing of collective functions and the functions of social security. This is the challenge facing your government, like other governments in Europe. You decide not to address this tax shift now. You are not solely responsible for the timing of this debate. And you apply revenues that penalize workers, as well as social recipients, even more strongly because they have lower incomes. The Council of State, which gave a negative opinion on the order you had prepared to organise this wage freeze, gives us the opportunity to debate it here in plenary and, a few weeks ago, in the Social Affairs Committee. It is positive that there is a debate on the subject. The first thing I would like to do is to rehabilitate wages as an important element of workers' compensation and also of the financing of social security through the contributions it generates. The Competitiveness Act, the 1996 Act and its merits can also be questioned. What is the validity of the comparative criteria that this Act uses? We regret that the comparison of wage costs between Belgium and neighbouring countries does not take better account of the wage subsidies enjoyed by enterprises in the form of reductions in social contributions, not conditional on the creation or maintenance of employment, which de facto reduce their wage costs. Taking this into account, the wage differential relative to neighbouring countries is not so important. It would have resolved naturally without this index jump and without this wage moderation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u205	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u206	Mr Vuye, if you insist, I can do much longer. I have no difficulty with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u207	(...) Frankly, go ahead!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u208	We therefore challenge the criteria that are used and we also invite the government, in its assessment of the Competitiveness Act, to observe the result in neighbouring countries of unbridled wage moderation practices on the income of workers and social beneficiaries. I am thinking, in particular, of Germany, which, when forced to walk, has led more and more workers to encounter phenomena of poverty or to have to combine two jobs in order to be able to get out of it financially. Nevertheless, this law does not only have defects. It offers the government interesting empowerments that may have been forgotten. In particular, it provides that the government, beyond the wage issue, can influence the financial costs of businesses. It is not only the way in which the banking and financial sector agrees to finance our businesses, but also the dividend policy applied by companies, a little aside from the competitiveness law. By having a little ambition and agreeing to go to the arm, we could say to the companies: "We make efforts to try to support you but they are not without a counter-party". This dividend policy could be conditioned, limited in the same way as you want to limit wages today. Why do you allow yourself to earn income from work and do you also refuse any measure with respect to income from capital or dividends to businesses? This is a question we are asking ourselves and we believe that a government in Europe could be at the initiative of another logic in this area; why not the Belgian government? Another element of competitiveness that I have highlighted in the debate in committee. Beyond the wage cost, beyond the cost of capital, there are other costs involved: the cost of raw materials, the cost of energy, not just its unit cost. We tend to reduce the energy debate to the unit cost of energy, but the cost of energy volume is essential, and it is in relation to this energy cost that our economy is mainly sinning and that the European economy is sinning overall, beyond Belgium. Europe is a net importer of EUR 400 billion a year in energy, gas, oil, uranium, and fossil materials in general because it is not energy efficient enough and does not produce enough of its own energy. For Belgium, this amounts to about EUR 20 billion. A somewhat modern and visionary government would, in collaboration with the federated entities, put the Regions which are also competent in this field, Belgium on the road to energy efficiency and on the road to energy self-production. Rather than negatively impacting our trade balance, the 20 billion euros we pay each year to countries that are lucky to have in their basement or sea, gas or oil, could be spent on the internal economy in the form of wage income. None of this in the government's plans, nor in its policy statement, nor in the important texts that are submitted during these three days of debate at our plenary session. You have a narrow vision, a reductive vision, a pastor of competitiveness. Even in tax matters, the benefits you give to businesses, for example notional interests, are not conditional on investment in new production tools. As ecologists, we would have had no difficulty in having new tax systems that are very favourable, perhaps even more favourable than those that exist today for businesses, provided that they are conditioned on investments in productive tools to modernise them and to have a leverage effect on employment. It is in this way that we must look at competitiveness in a modern way, not by censoring wage policies, penalising workers and beneficiaries by adding measures such as index jumps, wage blockades, and the question of many social security rights. The diet you are undergoing in our country can be assimilated to middle-aged medicine: a good bleed. After that, you'll find it better if the patient dies. Finally, what we'll remember is that he's dead. In committee, I defended two amendments aimed at translating our intention to push the government to act differently. We are convinced that alternatives are possible. We could, for example, in addition to wage moderation models, consider shareholder moderation in order to reduce the pressure on our companies from investors. It is not a question of racking up the latter, but simply of telling them that a moderate rate of profit is also the guarantee of lasting profits in the long term, while wanting maximum immediate profits was to take the risk of breaking productive tools, as was the case in the financial sector. The second amendment that I have defended in committee aims – that is our vision of productivity and I invite you to do so, Mr Employment Minister – to integrate the energy issue into the social dialogue and into the tools offered by the Central Economic Council to assess our country's competitiveness. Every company with a company council should take a little time to think, employers and workers, about these energy policies, how to be more energy efficient, how to become an energy producer. In Assesse, in the territory of my municipality, a paint manufacturer, who belongs to a multinational company, to try to remain a productive plant, interesting for international investors, is thinking about how to reduce its energy consumption and to develop, via wind energy, its self-production and therefore to reduce its energy costs in order to maintain employment at home. This type of reflection must be integrated not only at the enterprise level but also at the level of the Central Economic Council. In the same way that we receive reports from the Central Council on a regular basis to assess wage developments in Belgium compared to neighbouring countries, we should have barometer indicators for our energy consumption and collectively set targets for reducing our final energy consumption and for self-production. This would be a modern way of considering competitiveness, a more effective way than you are using - as has been said enough - on index jump, this wage moderation measure is the same acabit. It is unfair because it strikes workers and social beneficiaries. It is also economically inefficient in relation to the climate it creates in terms of investment and entrepreneurship capacity both by investors and by workers who are partners in economic projects. You bully them. You put them in a bad mood. They're on the street and threatening to strike. Sometimes they do it. It's always a failure! But you have a fundamental responsibility by neglecting social dialogue and thus mistreating the world of work. Change your shoulder rifle! Consider competitiveness issues differently. This is not only possible but also necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u209	Agree, Deputy Prime Minister, that discussing this text just after the vote on index jump is a bit special. I hope you recognize him. This leads me to link up with the index jump file to ask you two fundamental questions. First, why did you absolutely want to combine an index jump even though you were in a position, proof of this, to negotiate wage moderation? I can't follow your logic. The concomitance of the two files makes things even more surprising. The second fundamental question is: why did you want to apply such a different regime in the procedure? In this case, you have negotiated with the social partners. This further highlights your voluntary boycott of these at the time of drafting the index jump bill. It is a shame that there is such a chronological proximity between tonight's vote and this debate a few minutes later! It is of course up to you to answer these two essential questions. I come to more technical questions, but they can have an impact. We know that the Council of State has delivered opinions, first of all on the draft royal decree. He therefore referred to the need for a bill. In fact, you were derogating from the 1996 Act. Above all, he gave an opinion in which he pointed out that the terms "gross wage bill" and "net wage bill" were not defined anywhere, particularly in the 1996 Act. So you had every opportunity, while waiting to turn the Royal Order into a bill, to refine the text of your bill to reflect the remarks of the Council of State. You have chosen the easy solution by copying and pasting the draft royal decree, without taking into account the advice of the Council of State, which you have done nothing about. There was obviously no need to renegotiate with the social partners on this subject, but the text had to be clarified. This is not insignificant because it would have avoided problems of application and ex post facto interpretation. That would not have been superfluous. Deputy Prime Minister, it is in the best interests of employers to have a clear text that is applicable to them and on which we are not going to strove infinity to know what is happening to these aspects. There is a second important point made by the Council of State that you have not taken into account. The Council of State had made it clear, for the sake of clarity, that it was preferable to expressly provide, in accordance with the 1996 Act, that the maximum margin fixed be increased, where appropriate, from the adjustment of wages to the evolution of the index and from baraemic increases. As has been the case in recent years, since every time there have been implementing orders at the level of this provision, it was stipulated that the maximum margin set was increased, if necessary, by the adjustment of wages to the evolution of the index and by the baraemic increases. You did not follow the Council of State for the first time at the level of a government. Is it because you didn't want to take the opinion of the Council of State into account? This isn't the first time. Or, more importantly, is it just for the symbol not to put the index there? Did you push the vice so far?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u210	I heard earlier some of your colleagues applaud, so making an index jump appears to them as a victory. Did you push the vice until you didn't record the index jump, as much as you are, or as much as it does, some parties of your majority, even though the 1996 law, as the Council of State reminded you, required you to do so? I come to my last question, the one about the retroactivity of this law. You have a retroactive application planned. Some time has elapsed since January 1, 2015. It's April 22. Deputy Prime Minister, you did not really answer us in committee. I come back to this because I'm pretty sure these questions will arise. These situations will emerge. We need to consider the fate of any agreements other than those taken on the basis of the CTC 90 on the non-recurring benefits related to results, on the fate of bonus plans, and on the fate of any other agreements entered into between January 1, 2015 and the coming into force of your bill. It's your responsibility to worry about it. What happens, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, if these possible agreements, bonus plans and other agreements result in an excess of the wage margin you have provided for in your bill? Are you going to punish an employer who merely abides by the commitments that it made at a time when this law was not applicable, because it was not voted? This employer was, of course, able to enter into agreements, bonus plans or other agreements. Three months later, legislation was required on 1 January 2015. What does he have to do? Will it be sanctioned if it logically fulfils its commitments, when today a new law is required of it? What happens if the wage margin is exceeded? This highly problematic situation is not the subject of clear regulation in your bill. We can only regret it. I expect you to be able to respond not only to me, not only to the people who are working and who have entered into such agreements, but also to the employers to whom the workers will turn. I would also like to ask you what the inspection is going to do to the employers who have so far been in their right hands. These are questions I hope you will answer. Beyond those answers that we are waiting for and that employers are entitled to wait for this to be clear and to avoid problems of interpretation and application a posteriori, I will conclude more comprehensively beyond the two fundamental questions that I would remind you, Deputy Prime Minister, during the discussion on the index jump that we have just voted for. On this text, we will abstain. For two reasons. The first is that we can support the content of the social dialogue and hence the implementation of the agreement within the Group of Eight. But at the same time, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, as I said at the beginning of my speech, this text cannot be taken in isolation. It was you, the majority, who wanted us to vote on it two minutes ago, and then we immediately move on to this text. Of course, it is not just the chronological link. This text cannot be taken in isolation. He pointed out that index jumping was even less necessary. It is even presented as being counterproductive by economists and a range of employers. This text cannot be taken in isolation because it highlights even more the lack of respect for the social partners and social consultation for the index jump, Mr Deputy Prime Minister. It is for these reasons that we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u211	Mr. Chair, Minister, if I have read correctly, the salary standard is set at 11%. Do you confirm that? Excuse me, I didn't read it. This is the increase in BEL20 dividends in one year. I'm confusing dividends with wages. The government, on the other hand, does not confuse them. Indeed, when it requires efforts, says that competitiveness must be restored, it will always seek out wages. Moreover, the 1996 Competitiveness Act only deals with wages. I think you're starting to make the bosses a little lazy, since the only thing that makes it possible, in this way, to increase the competitiveness and efficiency of companies, is to reduce wages. However, if you want to increase the efficiency of our companies, you can bet on innovation. It should also be possible to play. By seeing wages as the only way to increase competitiveness, you make our bosses really lazy, without creativity. This is all the more problematic because wages for us are not the problem, but rather the solution. Whenever you apply wage moderation, you reduce consumption! Who consumes? It is not the shareholders of BEL20 who have seen their dividends increase by 11%; it is the workers, the pensioners, all those whose purchasing power you break. For these 20 companies in the BEL20, this 11 % increase represents 70 % of their profits, 11 billion euros, the budgetary effort that your government has planned for the years 2015 to 2018. Belgian wages have never been so low compared to neighbouring countries. I refer to the technical report of the secretariat of the Central Economic Council on the maximum margins available for the evolution of the wage cost. It shows that between 2013 and 2014, the wage gap decreased from 4.8 per cent to 3.8 per cent. The wage gap is narrowing, but for you, it's obviously not enough. Wages must continue to be blocked, while in other countries, particularly in Germany, there is an upward movement in wages. IG Metall, in particular, achieved a wage increase of 5.5% for 3.7 million workers. While German workers increase their wages by 5.5%, here they apply a 0 % margin. Also on Belgian wages, the European Trade Union Institute published the increase in real wages in 28 European countries between 2009 and 2012. During this period, Belgian wages increased by 0.09%. That is to say, during these four years, there has been a wage freeze. Our real wages are now at the 2004 level. But, in spite of this, wage freezes are being imposed and wage freezes are being pursued. Your usual argument in favour of this wage freeze is to say that Belgian wages are higher than those of neighbouring countries. This is not true because if we take into account all the reductions in social contributions and other tax gifts that employers receive, i.e. a total of EUR 11 billion, we realize that Belgian wages have risen less rapidly than in our neighbours. This wage freeze is dangerous because it exacerbates the crisis. In 2012, the National Bank of Belgium calculated that our country experienced a year of economic recession as a result of declining family spending and public spending. That families spend less makes sense because their real income has fallen. It is also seen in the own budgetary problems that your government is facing. It can be seen that the revenue of the secu nity does not follow and is not what was planned. Tax revenues do not follow. They're not what was planned. Every time, we need to find an additional austerity policy to deal with these problems. Finally, the vicious circle of the downward spiral is being increased by increasingly asking the workers to compensate for the budgetary shortfalls that are already caused by the same policy. Your liberal magic wand, according to which, by reducing wages, we will revive the economy and compensate the loss of earnings for the workers, does not work! The country's own fiscal development shows this. Unfortunately, it is a policy that is carried out in all countries with the same logic of austerity plan. In this, you are not original. And this austerity does not work because if we apply the same austerity policy in all countries, we will not necessarily improve this supposed wage disadvantage and each country will fuel this spiral. We are on a path of self-destruction when I think that what we need to do today is to activate wealth. In the various dossiers we discussed during these two days, I was able to show you how much wealth has evolved. The wealth of the richest 2 to 3 per cent in this country has never been greater. I think there's a way to get something to activate wealth. Rather than activating workers, blocking their wages, tackling pensions, attacking people, we really need to activate wealth. Finally, there is also a problem of consultation. By imposing a salary standard of 0% in 2015 and 0.8% in 2016, the government is preventing consultations at the sectoral level. It's a pretty important problem. It goes to this point that in the draft that will soon be law on index jump, you are considering sanctions against employers who would come to increase wages. Minister, you're making a mistake. I therefore urge you to review your policy even if all the debates and votes that have taken place today show that it is rather blindness that guides you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u212	Mr President, I intended not to speak. However, after what I have heard over the last few days, I would like to raise two points in connection with this draft law. Firstly, what is in store is the practicalisation of what the social partners have agreed among themselves. That seems obvious. That's obvious, too. However, it was not a simple technical agreement between the social partners. The agreement refers, on the one hand, to a wage margin which has been broken down over two years, while the 1996 Law refers to a wage margin of two years each. On the other hand, it is divided into a gross wage margin and a net wage margin, which is not easy either. Indeed, there are no such margins in the 1996 Law. Nevertheless, the government insists on implementing the agreement in this way. For those of you who have said in the past few days that we would have no respect for social dialogue: if this draft does not show a great deal of respect for social dialogue, then I do not remember it. It shows not only respect, but also a strong belief in social dialogue. It is, after all, based on this conviction of the value of social dialogue for a socio-economic policy which has been invested a great deal in it over the past few months by the government and, above all, by the Minister for Labour, in order to facilitate that social dialogue again. It is to the credit of the Minister and the Government that they have continued to believe in social dialogue and that they have managed to build up a fragile confidence. I now come to my second point. That is the request to adopt a stance in the coming months that will contribute to the further growth of that fragile confidence. Let us work towards building a basis for strengthening social dialogue so that concrete results can be achieved in the field through social dialogue in terms of workable work and job creation through reduction of burdens. We will not be able to do so in the place of the social partners. They're gonna have to do it. Let us therefore continue to invest in social dialogue and treat it with respect, so that we can achieve a number of things in the field in a good way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u213	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our group will be voting for this draft law with great conviction. In a small country such as Belgium, which is heavily dependent on its open economy, our exports represent about 70% of our gross domestic product, and in trade with our neighbouring countries, a wage standard is very important. This design will ensure that we will be able to complete the labour cost handicap, which has been built up since 1996, by the end of 2016. We will also approve it because it is a draft in accordance with the social agreement. It places the responsibility to make the right choices about the wage standard, entirely on the part of the social partners. So they will make the choices. Ladies and gentlemen, this may be difficult for the opposition to recognise, but it is the index jump that has created the context for restarting social dialogue. Indeed, if there had been no index jump, the wage standard would have been negative if we had wanted to completely eliminate the cost of wages handicap by the end of 2016. It is clear that no social agreement would have been possible. Now there is a social agreement, with the exception of one trade union, and we are pleased with that. Finally, this is also a sign of change, after years of pay freeze; the previous government granted 0 % increase in 2013 and 2014 and in 2011 and 2012 there was only 0.3 %. There is now room for a maximum wage increase of 0.8 %. For the sake of clarity, those 0.5 % and 0.3 % should be replaced by the following: an undertaking must calculate the total gross wage mass, i.e. the labour costs minus the employers' contributions, within its business, and the company must then take 0.5 %. That is the maximum amount that can increase a company's wage cost. Unless the Minister contradicts this, this seems to me to be the correct interpretation of the text. Minister, I would like to congratulate you on this important social agreement, which offers a new perspective and at the same time restores the competitiveness of our companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u214	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking all the Members who have spoken and also congratulating the chairman of the committee on the good guidance and direction of the debates in committee. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we adopt this draft law tomorrow, we will close a first part here, which we also discussed yesterday and which this federal government has tried to send a very important signal in difficult circumstances. We did not just want to send out a very important signal on the question of labour costs. We have not only wanted to send out a very important signal that we want to relaunch the sectoral dialogue. We also want, of course, to ensure that employment is created. From this point of view, from these points of view, we have today approved the index jump and, hopefully, tomorrow's wage standard, together with all the elements of the social agreement, the result approved by eight of the organisations and included in the draft law. The agreement was concluded in accordance with the procedure laid down in the 1996 Law, to which Mrs Fonck referred. Mrs Fonck, I remember that Mrs Milquet also applied the 1996 Act. We applied that 1996 law perfectly. We have given the social partners the opportunity to set the wage standard. We have found that the Group of Ten has failed to do so. On the basis of Article 6 (3) of the same law, we have put forward a proposal for conciliation. That was the proposal adopted by eight of the ten members of the Group of Ten. On the basis of Article 7 (1), the Government has taken a decision in accordance with the proposal endorsed by the eight partners of the Group of Ten. I think it is very important that the government has taken maximum account of this and has also applied the procedure of the 1996 law, with respect for the social partners. It is important that we adopt a wage standard because we can now negotiate within the sectors. Mr Van Quickenborne and others are right. In the previous period there has been a wage freeze. With an index, you might say. That is correct, but the difference between the previous and this period is that we can now negotiate within the sectors, that we can implement them in these sectors and see how to create jobs. Mrs Temmerman, I know very well the weak and strong sectors, the chemistry versus the others, but there is the legal framework of 1996. That's not new. It's from 1996. Several governments have tried to get the social partners to ignore a wage standard. Not all governments have succeeded. We have done so, with hard work. Unfortunately, not all members of the Group of Ten agreed. We would have preferred all members of the Group of Ten to have approved it, but eight is better than none. Eight is an important part of that Group of Ten. There are only two who, unfortunately, did not agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u215	Minister, I understand that you are making great efforts to correct what this government is doing and what was approved less than an hour and a half ago. I would like to believe you when you say that the social partners are important and that eight is better than none. But even if we have an agreement with ten, why do we not always have the same attitude? When it was about the SWT there was an agreement of the ten and then suddenly there was a new aspect and that rule suddenly didn't apply. Either you always go through that rule, or you don't. You say that what you are doing now will encourage the sectors to negotiate that wage margin. Mr Van Quickenborne, you also mentioned that 0.8 %. However, it will only be there when there is an agreement. They don't get that automatically. Thus, if we do not reach agreement in weaker sectors, we will not be able to do so. So it is not evident, it is something that needs to be negotiated. Then I would prefer what the previous governments did: indexing for everyone, both for the weak and for the strong.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u216	So I don't agree with that. There are strong sectors and weak sectors. However, the 1996 law is based on the government's decision on a maximum limit, the wage standard, and the sectors are negotiating it. That's always been the case. I'll talk about the barren increases later. I believe that social dialogue not only at interprofessional level, but now also at sectoral level and at enterprise level will be given a new impetus. With the legislative text, we are taking care of this new dynamic. Mr Vercamer is right, which can give confidence and build on the social dialogue from the bottom up. [[Objections to the banks of the opposition]] This has always been the case, and you must also trust the social partners at sectoral level: agreements are made there with knowledge, taking into account the potential of the sector and of businesses. (Protests from Mrs Kitir)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u217	Mr Kitir, we have some experience in the government as far as consultation is concerned. We have always tried to respect what has been achieved in the Group of Ten. Of course, we have the coalition agreement, on the one hand, and the social dialogue, which is mentioned 42 times in the coalition agreement, on the other, and we must combine these two. That is always an important task. As Minister of Work, I am the lawyer for the social dialogue, and I will, together with my fellow Members, ensure that we take maximum account of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u218	I would like to underline once again the difference between the past and the present. At a time when the pay freeze was decreed and we were in the government together, there was absolutely no agreement from the social partners, let alone that there was room at sector level to talk about it. On the contrary, everything was committed and there was no room to negotiate anything. The difference now, with the index jump, is that space is being created in sectors to re-converse with each other. That's the difference from the old days. The difference with the past is not that there is now a distinction between strong and weak sectors, because that has always been the case. Productivity and growth were always taken into account. In other words, I do believe that, despite the difficult conditions in which social dialogue is now in place, the new legislative text will give room and oxygen to take further steps towards mutual trust. That's the right approach. It is the credit of the Minister of Work that he has succeeded.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u219	Ladies and gentlemen, specific questions have been asked. You are right, what is being said here is also being recorded and can be the basis for explanations and clarifications that a number of fellow Members have asked for here. What exactly does the wage standard look like? The general starting point was the agreement of the eight. We had first reflected this in a KB, but the Council of State said that it had to be incorporated into a law. That is what we have done with this draft. If there are uncertainties, their origin lies with the agreement of the eight. I believe that all the uncertainties can be clarified, because it must now be applied at sectoral level. What exactly does the wage standard look like? In 2015, no wage increases should be granted at the top of the index and the baremic increases. When I speak of the index, the index jump, which we approved earlier, has been taken into account. So there will be no raises in 2015. In 2016, maximum increases may be granted on top of the indexations, with respect for the index jump, and the baremic increases. I shall come back to the blighting increases later, because Mrs Kitir has asked a clear question about this. This means an increase in labour costs of 0.5 % of gross wage mass and an increase in labour costs of 0.3 % of net wage mass. That's what the coalition agreement says. In 2015, therefore, no increases, with the exception of the baremic, will be broken down in 2016 by 0.8 % for the increase in gross wage mass and net wage mass. All employers' costs must be included. Does the increase of 0.5 % in gross wage mass, including all the employer's costs, mean that labour costs can rise by 0.5 %? The wording of the law, ladies and gentlemen, is fully in line with what the social partners have agreed. One should not try to find a difference between the agreement of the group of eight and what is laid down in the law. If it says that in 2016 the maximum margin for labour cost development is 0.5 % of gross wage mass, including all costs for the employer, it is not intended to create a new definition of gross gross wage mass. The phrase "total cost" for the employer includes all charges, refers to the maximum margin of labour cost development and not to the gross wage mass. I have tried to explain this in committee. I hope it's clear now. It is therefore wage costs, which may increase by 0.5% of the gross wage mass. Mrs Kitir's explicit question was whether wages could increase by 0.5 % plus 0.3 % plus baremic increases. You asked the same question in committee, Mrs Kitir. Let me try to clarify it again. I hope that no one will have any doubt about it. It is not the case that in all joint committees a margin of 0.5 % plus 0.3 % plus baremic increases will necessarily be filled in. The specific feature of the wage standard is that the government determines what the maximum is. There are weak sectors and strong sectors. Some have already referred to this. Weak sectors may consider that they cannot cope with the increase in labour costs, but are somewhat lower. This is typical of the 1996 law: it is a ceiling that cannot be dealt with, but that does not mean that everyone must reach the maximum. The negotiators are always looking at all the elements, including what the palliative increases cost about. If the 0.5 % plus 0.3 % is filled in with additional increases, other than baremic increases, then the baremic increases are higher than 0.5 % plus 0.3 %. I hope that's clear now. You can fill that out yourself. If one goes up to 0.5 % plus 0.3 %, then the baremic increases will be on top. For example, if a sector fills in only 0.4% with benefits other than baremic increases, the sector concerned will receive 0.4% plus baremic increases. I hope that I have explained this very clearly. In any case, indexations and the baremic increases are always guaranteed. Mrs. Fonck asked about it. We have, of course, approved the index jump. In Article 7 we expressly state that it applies without prejudice to the provisions of the 1996 Law. After all, what will happen when the index jump is over? Then the indexation will be applied automatically again and we will return to the old situation of index plus baremic increases plus increases. Once the index jump has ended, we are fully covered by the 1996 law. It is regulated in this way, so that we do not prejudice any of the 1996 law, except, of course, the index jump that has been approved. It also asked how this complicated wage standard would be monitored and what reward elements would or would not be charged to the wage standard. The wage standard is the result of negotiations within the Group of Ten, which eight agreed to. The Group of Ten is by definition very creative and tries to find solutions each time. I can testify to that, because I've been a member of it myself for a while. It is important that this is respected, and I will therefore submit to the social partners a note indicating that the wage standard has been respected in each question for a binding declaration of a collective agreement. For example, they can themselves indicate the calculations of their sectoral margin and explain the total costs of the increases they wish to carry out. As far as the consideration of certain wage elements is concerned, I believe that this has been answered in committee, Mr Fonck, and that there can no longer be any ambiguity about this. We are simply going through the previous situation, and there is nothing new about that. Then you had another question concerning the entry into force of the law and the retroactivity. Firstly, the problem of retroactivity is not new. Why isn't that new? Because we never have an agreement on the wage standard on 1 January. It always takes a little longer and we always go a little further in the year when the social partners reach an agreement. This was also the case in the past and the problem of retroactivity is therefore not new. For the sake of clarity, as the committee has said, as in the past, the rule that collective agreements concluded before the wage standard is in force remains valid. The benefits granted and not of a structural nature shall continue to apply. If the collective agreement contains structural advantages, the wage standard applies to it from the date of publication of the law. This means that no structural, recurrent benefits can be granted for 2015 under the zero standard, even if a collective agreement would set different rules. However, ladies and gentlemen, no collective bargaining agreements with additional advantages have been concluded so far, so in the sector, the problem of possible collective bargaining agreements before the publication of the wage standard is non-existent. I think I have answered all the additional questions. I trust, Mr Kitir, that, as far as the blighting increases are concerned, the 0.5% and the 0.3% are clear. About 0.3 % you also had a question. We are talking here about corporate or sectoral collective agreements and not per employee. With regard to the 0.3 %, I can tell you that this means an additional net benefit of 0.3 % for an individual employee. For the employer, the total cost of this net benefit shall not exceed 0,3% of the sum of all net wages of all employees of the sector or enterprise, the net wage mass. I believe that I have also given an answer to that. Mrs Fonck, you said that we do not take account of the Council of State. I assume in all modesty that we have done so. I have already referred to the fact that we have expressly stipulated that all the provisions of the 1996 law remain in force, with the exception of indexation because we are doing an index jump. We have explicitly included this in the article in question. I said earlier that this is very important. When the index jump ends, we will find ourselves back in the normal situation. I believe that Mr Vercamer has rightly referred to this matter, and I conclude with that confidence and the strengthening of social dialogue and sectoral dialogue. We spent 41 hours discussing the index jump. I tried yesterday to explain the matter. I am aware that this is anything but obvious. Nor is this self-evident at sectoral level. However, I am convinced that the combination of the index jump and the wage standard will enable social dialogue at sectoral level to be implemented. There are companies that have asked me to give them the opportunity to negotiate because that wage freeze is not sustainable. They want to give their employees something, too. We are responsible for this combination. We want to reduce labour costs, but on the other hand we also want to give the sector consultation a chance. I understand you have other solutions and recipes. I respect that, but I'm trying to point out and defend our choices. I hope that at some point, after the sectoral negotiations have been concluded, we will be able to see that we have made the right choices. I am prepared to discuss this, should you so wish, but I am sure that with these two elements we have taken the index jump and the wage standard...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u220	There is time for replies, as far as you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u221	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to say a few words about social dialogue. We can discuss this in a long and broad way. One moment you are proud to show that social dialogue is being respected, the other moment it is a bit difficult because there is discussion within the majority. It's just how the wind spins and how it works out whether or not you respect the social dialogue. So I am sorry that I am not so convinced that you are supposedly respecting the social dialogue here and that you want to put your hat on it. Secondly, you say that you have responded to the comments of the Council of State, that you have explicitly included this and you refer to the law of 1996. However, the Council of State has been very clear: the two new components that you add to this law are not mentioned in the 1996 law. The 1996 Law only refers to wage costs, not gross wages or net wages. I did not hear you give a clear answer on how you will solve that. So much for our comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u222	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u223	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (987/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (987/4) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u224	Annex V.Part • 1 - Meryame Kitir cs (987/2) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u225	Held: the vote on the amendment and Article 2. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 and 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-plenair-ip041x.u226	The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 23 April 2015, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 23 April 2015 at 2.15 p.m.
