ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u2	Mr President, a series of questions will be asked, like every Thursday, in particular about Greece. Starting tonight, a series of acts, meetings, decisions will take place. They will have a crucial importance on the future of Europe: either Europe is getting out of it from the top – one succeeds in overcoming the difficulties positively, and that is a good thing – or Europe in terms of failure is about to experience one of the most dramatic moments in its history. All this will depend, in part, on the Greek Government, on the proposals it has to make this evening, on each of the euro area countries and, beyond that, on the Union. I therefore agree with my colleagues that it is essential for Parliament to be able to regulate the decision that Belgium will take at these meetings. I was taking the floor, Mr President, to thank you, since you agreed to organise tomorrow and Monday a framework for the Belgian position on the Greek dossier. In terms of parliamentary democracy and respect for all groups, the majority and the opposition, that was to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u3	Mrs Onkelinx, I am the one who thanks you, because you proposed to do so. In general, I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the national debate needs to be Europeanised, so to speak. Even if it was only to make no fools of the citizens on that point.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u4	Mr. President, Prime Minister, you have been caught up in the facts earlier than expected. We were many in Parliament to tell you this: your budget is based on a deception, which deprived the Regions of 750 million euros for their budgetary adjustment. We told you that such a loss in personal tax amounts to a loss of at least three billion in total for Belgium as a whole, of which at least two billion for the federal government. We were also many to say that three billion euros cannot disappear in nature in a few months, in an economic context of weak growth, of course, but no recession. Weary! You didn't want to hear anything, but you didn't want to hear anything. You have shown contempt and arrogance for the Regions, which were asking for only one thing: to take the time to check your numbers and methods. To their request for consultation you have responded with a form of morgue, let's say, by treating the Walloon government as irresponsible. When his members asked you for a check, you sent them a metaphor without much relief, saying: "We may be angry with Mr. Weather to announce the rain. That's not why it's going to stop raining." These were your answers, arrogant and contemptuous! Let's stay on the weather, Prime Minister. The wind has turned. He turned faster than expected, but the damage is there. You have put the Regions in a difficult budgetary situation. You have deceived Parliament with false figures and have therefore presented a misleading budget. Today you have a budget that has a completely wrong structural balance and, above all, you have undermined federalism of cooperation and consultation by your ways and ways of doing things that are not those expected of the Prime Minister of a federal state! So, Prime Minister, how do you explain today the 600 million loss for the Regions? When are you going to start presenting us with a real budget, a truth budget, rather than a false budget? And above all, are you going to have the courage and humility to apologize to the Regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u5	Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, I am addressing you in particular. Just before the Easter recess there was a great triumphalism, because they had found 750 million. We had to give 750 million less to the regions, so budgetary control was a piece of cake. Ladies and gentlemen, we now know that nothing less is true. A math error was made and under the pretext that anyone could be wrong, she is corrected. Mr. Secretary, three things. First of all, you have obliged the regions to save, and I am speaking for the Flemish region, and not to invest in matters where investment was absolutely necessary, such as youth care, recently two girls had to spend the night in prison because there was not enough room in an institution, the nature areas or the rest homes. Rusthuizen are necessary, but a number of local authorities are obliged to sell them because they cannot make the necessary investments. Secondly, a mistake has been made. Everyone may be mistaken, but what I really blame you and what is inappropriate for a minister is that you lied to this House. Your services knew at the end of April, at the beginning of May, that there had been a mistake and that there was a problem. That is a long time before we started the budget discussion here. You didn't say anything about that. You have simply said that a new formula will be used to look at the basis on which revenue will be calculated. However, at that time you already knew there was a mistake. Even worse, Minister, is that Parliament approved the budget last week. At that time, you already knew that it was about EUR 125 million. That figure became known at the end of June. You should have said that last week. You lied to this Parliament last week. Where did you get that mistake? Why did you not mention the amount of EUR 127 million last week before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, after the problems of calculation – we still remember – of the savings to your colleague Galant's SNCB, after the ball of the previous conclave on the calculation of the National Pension Office (400 million euros of error), we thought we had seen everything. We thought we'd been through everything. Well, no, the record has been broken! Today we are reaching an amount of 600 million euros of error and correction! Six hundred million euros which your colleague here has acknowledged by means of a press release. This is probably a modern way of explaining and organizing a federalism of cooperation. We already remember that, initially, it was by e-mail a few days, even a few hours before the conclave, that the Regions were informed. Today, the regions are doing so by means of a press release. Prime Minister, you will certainly remember this debate that we had here, when you went up very proud in the gallery to treat the Regions as irresponsible because they dared to question your own calculations. Today, it's a bit of you, it's a bit of a reversal of the situation. A little more modesty and, above all, a little more federalism of cooperation would not be wrong, it seems to me! In substance, on the scale of the gap, 600 million euros, I would not dare imagine what would happen if Alexis Tsipras were to come to the Council of European Ministers and announce that he made a mistake of that magnitude. I am convinced, knowing you, that you would have already asked to whistle at the end of recreation! In this case, I think that today, here and elsewhere, a little modesty in your leadership would not be wrong! All this will have to be filled, especially since it is not the only bill! In Mr Jamar's budget, there is still the problem of nuclear rent and tax revenues. There's a total of $2 billion. Maybe you'll confirm the number? How will you close this gap? We have already heard your Deputy Prime Minister say that it is no longer a question of touching on social affairs, but the other Deputy Prime Ministers immediately reacted by saying that there was no taboo in this matter! Prime Minister, what is the government's line on this issue to close this gap?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u7	Mr. President, Prime Minister, because of your bad alliance, you are obsessed with wanting to demonstrate that the South of the country is not managed, because it is the dominant theme of your ally in the North, and you have rushed into what you believe to be a boon to do the lesson. You have embarked on a political coup rather than taking on, what I told you at the time, the sense of responsibility when you are the prime minister of a country like ours, that is to say, scrupulously, honestly and comprehensively checking the budget data in consultation with other governments. But, carried away by your false enthusiasms and your true mistakes, you are now confronted with the hard reality of the numbers! You can deceive a lot with words, you can rarely deceive with numbers! There is only one way out today, since you want the truth, namely to return to Parliament with a real adjusted budget before the end of this parliamentary session. If you do not make this choice, you will continue to be the wheel sucker of the N-VA with the risk of repeated falls that will accompany you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u8	Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, in an ideal federal state, the financing law normally ensures stability. This presupposes a system that is simple and transparent. How are we doing? We're doing it a little differently. We opt for a system of incentives on personal taxes. There's gotta be a problem there. In the year when income is acquired, company tax is paid and advance payments are made. In the following year the tax letter will be completed. In that case, it is up to 18 months after the end of the year in which the income is acquired. It is therefore spread over a very long period of time, which means that estimates must necessarily be used. I hear you talking about math errors. I'm sorry, but it's about estimates. Estimates are made on the basis of available and processable data. However, they remain estimates. I admit, however, that there is also a system error. The Prime Minister himself said that the law and the system could create surprises. I have two questions, Prime Minister and Minister for Finance. Firstly, how do you intend to achieve more concrete and constant monitoring so that we can reduce these problems in the future? We will not be able to avoid them, I do not dream of them, but to what extent will we be able to limit them? Secondly, can you explain the figures? How can 750 million suddenly turn into 157 million? Can you explain these estimates?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, remember last April we were going to see what we were going to see! The federal government was closing its budget adjustment in no time and you were sending a 750 million-million-dollar effort back to the Regions. Remember, you and your majority have used all possible and imaginable qualifiers to make Francophones and opposition think of amateurs and cankers. Yet, Prime Minister, you already knew at that time that you were at fault and that there were weaknesses in this matter – I am replying here too to Mr Vuye. The fault, first of all, since you did not comply with the special financing law on consultation with the Regions. You did not take the royal decree provided for in the special financing law. You did not report the personal income tax estimate (PPI) figures on time and on time to the Regions. After the mistakes, the weaknesses. You knew that the sample used was too small, much smaller than those usually used. You also knew that the breakdown of effort between Regions was suspicious, since the Walloon Region and the Brussels Region had to bear a more than proportional part of the 750 million loss. What about the Prime Minister? Do you confirm these figures, which, like a baudrouch, deflated into 157 million? How will they be distributed among the different regions? Are you also going to make a new fiscal adjustment at the federal level? More fundamentally, are you determined to enter your role as prime minister of all Belgians, without breaking the francophones for the pleasure of breaking them, with an adult and responsible attitude, with all the federated entities? Each level of power is making its 2016 budget. Are you going to make all the transparency, now, on the figures for the 2016 budget? And are you going to do so with transparency, dialogue and mutual respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Members of the opposition,... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u11	Those who have co-approved the special financing law! The regions are given the money on the basis of the budget and on the basis of the Finance Act. These figures have not changed with the March budget control. Those numbers haven't changed in the last week. Those figures won't change. The regions are given the money to which they are entitled. Nothing will be taken from them. Perhaps the special financing law is not easy, but, ladies and gentlemen, what tax legislation is that? Administrative mistakes have already been made. Which government or company does not? Making estimates is not evident, not in a unitary state, nor in a federal state. Mistakes are also taking place at the local level, and local administrators know this all too well. The history of this file can be improved. Consultation is carried out, but it is done with superiors, and not only the federal government is responsible for this. I want to admit perfectly that not everything happened perfectly, but we are not exclusively responsible. I will conclude, Mr President. What is the point, ladies and gentlemen? It comes down to a uniform methodology. We need uniform estimates and accounts. We have made sound agreements on this and we have put in place proper legislation. The Special Financing Act provides for the adoption of Royal Decrees by the Council of Ministers and in consultation with the regional authorities. Prime Minister, I will return to what I said a few months ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u12	Mr Verherstraeten, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u13	Mr President, I will conclude. I asked at that time to speed up the pace with which the CBAs were issued.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u14	Would you like to finish now?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u15	What is the state of play with regard to these CBAs? When can we expect them? What happened in the interim period?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u16	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister for Finance, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a lot of budgetary news over the past week. On Friday, Mr Peeters announced that enough savings were being made on the socially weak. I agree with that, Mr Peeters, but it did not last two hours if Mr Jambon and Mr De Croo said that there was still room to save on people who are having a hard time. That's the first thing. The second fact is the math error. It is not an administrative error, Mr Verherstraeten, but a calculation error of EUR 600 million. Mr Vuye, the problem is not the Finance Act, the problem is the Finance Minister. The problem in this country is apparently that Flemish and federal ministers are having difficulty working with each other in a normal and transparent way. They find it difficult to sit around the table and examine how they will solve matters for citizens and businesses; how they can ensure that the regions have money for education, welfare and childcare; how they can ensure that the budget is correct and they can be honest with Parliament. That is how it should normally work, Mr Vuye. And as far as the Finance Act is concerned, we solved that case while you were walking, Mr Vuye. Where were you, the great Flemish nationalist? Where have you been? You started to walk when we negotiated fiscal autonomy for the regions. You were scared. You were scared. At the Flemish National Singing Festival you were present, but in the negotiations for fiscal autonomy you did not give home. Mr Verherstraeten and all of us did so in the previous legislature. I've come to the third. Yesterday I asked Minister Van Overtveldt about the tax shift, which was promised before March. Prime Minister Michel mentioned summer in that context, but it seemed to me that it was time to put concrete plans on the table. We're not going to refer the tax shift to the Greek calendar, are we?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u17	Mr Calvo, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u18	Mr President, did you hear what Minister Van Overtveldt said yesterday? He said that timing is no longer important but that quality is important. So there is no longer a deadline for the tax shift. I have three questions, Prime Minister. Firstly, what is the monitoring committee's analysis and what effort should be made? Secondly, could you please ask your Minister of Finance to sit around the table instead of communicating via Belga? Mr Dewael and the Open Vld do not dare to say that anymore today, but I repeat that again and again, even in this House. Third, the deadline for the tax shift stays up, yes or no? I believe that it is time for concrete reforms in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u19	Mr.President, Prime Minister, as was pointed out, during the March 30, 2015 budgetary control, the federal government had received a re-estimate of the amounts related to regional personal tax additions from the FPS Finances, which showed a decrease in the amounts to be transferred to the Regions. This decrease, linked to the application of the mechanism of the special financing law, was then estimated at 750 million euros compared to the amount that had been taken into account in the preparation of the budget. I would point out that the government, for the sake of prudence, had only taken half of that amount into account in its control. Following a re-evaluation of the FPS Finances on July 7, 2015, PPI revenues for the Regions are now down 157 million from the original figures. This re-evaluation is based on a sample, this time, which is much wider, since instead of taking a two-cent role warning, it is one in twenty that has been taken into account in the model. However, this is still an estimate which is likely to change. Prime Minister, in view of this re-evaluation, I would like to ask the following questions. First, a technical meeting between the FPS Finance and the representatives of the Regions, at which the figures will be explained, is to take place in the coming days. Do you have more information about this? More permanently, can closer collaboration and coordination be achieved with the administration in question? More broadly, what measures will be put in place to avoid these estimation problems in the future? Finally, the government has stated on many occasions that it wants to pursue a policy of good governance and real transparency. What measures will be taken at this level? I would therefore remind you that the federal government is part of a close collaboration with the federated entities. Gentlemen Laaouej, Nollet, Maingain, Madame Fonck, you have to cut short your polemics that are sterile and divide citizens, Francophones and Dutch speakers. These polemics are not in the public interest! It is essential to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, because when we talk about arrogance, we have to sweep in front of his door, but you do not! I thank the Prime Minister for the answers that will be provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen,'song', 'trumpy', 'wheel-sweet', 'arrogance','mistake', 'false'. Who does lessons of respect to whom? It's the hospital that doesn't care about charity!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u21	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u22	Is it possible for Mrs Onkelinx to respect the government's right to answer the questions asked of her? Is that possible? Why ask the government to systematically prevent it from responding calmly? (...): Stop with your smoke screens! Answer instead of playing the victim!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what are the facts? They are extremely simple. And I think everyone here knows the reality. Let me explain the facts as they happened. (...): How three months ago!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u24	In March, as part of the preparation of budgetary control, on the basis of the funding law that came into force for the very first year, we used the figures from the Department of Finance's Study Service, which were communicated almost at the same time to both the federal government and entities II. As a result, these figures have not been validated by the government. They were used by the latter on the basis of an estimate made by a sample which was not decided by the government, but by the Study Service of the Ministry of Finance. I therefore continue and I sign: at the time we used them the figures we had were the only ones that could be used for budgetary control. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Secondly, we are responsible, cautious and transparent. That is why, in the light of the budget check for the Easter holiday, we have decided to consider these figures as a commission. This means that we knew that I expressly said here that the figures could change. It was an estimate, a prediction, so it can change. We have said this explicitly. The proof of this is very simple: we did not use EUR 750 million in the budget control. We didn't do that. We have been very careful. What have we done? We have not used about half, EUR 350 million. We didn't use them. Of the 375 million remaining, we have still decided on a security provision of EUR 200 million. Of the 750 million euros, we have therefore used 175 million euros, a provisional amount. This means that the impact for the next budgetary control that will begin in the coming days is less than 20 million euros, 18 million euros for the federal state. This is a very small amount in the context of conventional budgetary control. It is reality; it is the facts: transparency, clarity! As far as consultation with the Länder is concerned, I have heard the reasoning. I have no problem with that, which is the logic of the relationship between the majority and the opposition. We intend to work seriously in the Council of Ministers. We work seriously, too. The first decision we have taken is a monthly consultation committee. That was not the case in the past. Immediately after the difficult discussions about these figures, around the Easter holiday, we also made the decision, with the Minister of Finance, to work very openly and very transparently. Virtually ten meetings were held between representatives of the Ministry of Finance and those of entity II to play open books. There was a challenge to entity II that we considered and immediately we agreed to a broader sampling to give the numbers more security. I mean, there's a reality. Today's figures may not be the right figures. I want to say it here very honestly, very calmly. Everyone who draws up a budget knows that this is a forecast! There is a moment when we will know the definitive truth, it is in October 2016, at the time of the accounts. When tax recruitment comes into play, we will know what the reality is. Will it be 750, 125, 242? We don't know! We will know in October 2016. It's as simple as that. We can try the polemics. We can try to play. Reality is sober; it is simple. The final point concerns the royal decision. There was an important question about the royal decree. The facts are as follows. In December 2014, we tried to start a first consultation with the Länder, but that failed. An agreement with the Länder was not possible at the time. We then re-launched the talks to allow this consultation to take place with the Länder, but in view of the difficult discussions on the EUR 750 million, certain Länder decided to suspend the discussion. It was therefore not the federal state that interrupted these discussions. Fortunately, they will resume now as working groups are reinvigorated on the subject. I hope that we can, as soon as possible, validate this royal decree. I'll make it up to you. We are working seriously, calmly and transparently. We extend our hand to the federated entities for a federalism of cooperation, and everything else is just gestures!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not, of course, repeat what the Prime Minister has already told you, but I hope I will provide some additional elements. Maybe start with the facts, not insignificant in the discussion we're having. The federal personal tax is reduced by the sixth state reform by the so-called autonomy factor, 25.99 % to 2018. The regions then rely on this reduced federal tax by means of their own incentives to apply an additional tax. That is the context, a new context that has a number of effects and side effects. Neither I nor the FPS Finance have the real data for the first year following the introduction of the sixth state reform. It just can't be. One has to emphasize it a number of times already but I cannot repeat it enough... inevitably work with estimates. In February, the regional income tax was re-estimated in preparation for budgetary control for 2015. This happens with the meanwhile well-known SIRe model that works with a sample of 1 in 200 hit notes. This showed that revenue for the regions would be EUR 750 million lower than initially registered. In other words, there was a significant impact on the Regions. That was clearly repeated at the time. Immediately afterwards, I instructed the FPS Finance to make new calculations, knowing well that we had to work effectively on the basis of estimates. I communicated this immediately to the regional authorities. Moreover, in the initial discussions with the FPS Finance, it soon emerged that we urgently needed a better sample. The General Directorate of Statistics and Economic Information of the FPS Economy has therefore been asked to compile a new sample. One out of 20 hits per county is now in there. The representativeness of this new sample is significantly higher than that of the previous one. However, I cannot repeat enough that it remains estimates. It was agreed with the regions that we would try to complete the new estimates for budgetary control. So that is what has actually happened. Once again, all this was done with the effects on the regions in mind and with the will to clarify them as quickly as possible. The new estimates or estimates show that revenue for the regions will be 157 million lower instead of 750 million lower. As soon as I had certainty, Mrs. Temmerman, about these figures, I communicated them. You're suggesting retardation. I firmly deny that. The figures that came out of the estimates have been re-calculated several times for verification in order to prevent the number dance from becoming completely hallucinating. I will not allow you to say that I have withheld figures and lied to Parliament. That is fundamentally untrue. There was then a quick communication. I will certainly not hide the fact that this could have been done in a more sophisticated way, but at least the communication has been done simultaneously to the federal Cabinets, the regional Cabinets concerned and to the public. Moreover, there was also a clear invitation to this communication which, of course, was not in the press for a meeting at technical level, which has already taken place in the meantime, where, as is the case with technical meetings, the technicalities of what is now before us would be further explained. During these consultations, it was also very clearly specified, detailed and quantified as to what the effects will be on each of the regions. For Flanders it means eight million positive instead of the previous 396 million negative, in other words a windfall of 404 million. For Wallonia, it is 117 million negative instead of 248 million negative, a windfall of 131 million. For the Brussels-Capital Region, it is 47 million negative instead of 105 million negative, i.e. a windfall of 58 million. The transfers to the regions will take account of these new figures. The estimate will also, as agreed, be submitted for review to the Planning Bureau and to the Supreme Finance Council for information. These new estimates will help to build on more up-to-date figures. It remains, however, estimates and forecasts, which we will have to continue to implement in the coming period. You will not like it, the Regions will not like it, I myself find it even less pleasant, but it is the reality. We are working on it and we can only try to make the figures available to everyone as quickly and as accurately as possible, based on what we know at the time. We are. Speaking of a math error is absolutely out of the question. The fact is that in the course of the year exact figures can never be calculated. We can only try to make the best possible estimates of what the final result will be. Of course, a new estimate of these figures will be made in the autumn. The Prime Minister has already indicated, we are keeping a close eye on this monitoring. I will not repeat what the Prime Minister said about how we dealt with this during the previous budgetary control. I think the words are quite appropriate and justified. To sum up, I have listened to the aspirations of the Regions, acted quickly, redirected and communicated and never withheld anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u26	Mr President, Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, you would have contented yourself with the figures of the administration, whereas your work should consist, before closing your budget adjustment, in verifying these figures, as the Regions which – they – did not make a mistake. These had the right numbers, unlike you. That is why we are asking for an audit by the Court of Auditors on the methodology. Your way of doing things bears a name, Prime Minister, even if it scratches your ears: it is amateurism! Note, and I say before this House, that the sixth reform of the state and the reform of the financing law have nothing to do with the problem before us, contrary to what some have wanted to make believe in the debates. Moreover, it will be remembered that the majority of the budget adjustment was not in number. Should we believe that some of you did not believe in government figures? That's our conviction. And I would add, Prime Minister, that your approximations and your proven amateurism no longer allow you to make such arrogant speeches about Greece. If there is the end of a recreation that must be whistled, it is the end of your government! In conclusion, the budget is a serious matter. But seriousness is what you are sorely lacking. So stop your deceptions, Prime Minister, come to this Parliament with serious dossiers rather than with malice!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u27	Prime Minister, Minister, respect and transparency are two important words, both of which you used in your reply. These are two words, which I regret to say are not reflected in the way in which you both deal with Parliament. The least a citizen in our country can expect is that there is transparency about the figures, about the money he gives to the government. Prime Minister, you say that you have been transparent and have used the figures of your services. Your services informed you at the end of April, at the beginning of May, before the discussions on budgetary control in Parliament, that something might have been wrong. They didn't know exactly what. You did not say anything about this during budgetary control. On June 29th, you knew it was 157 million. You're shaking no? I have it here: June 29th. When did we vote on budgetary control? That was last Wednesday. You didn't say anything at the time. I stand by it: the way you deal with Parliament is disrespectful. You lied to Parliament in budgetary control.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u28	Prime Minister, you're a little the Vivaldi of politics. In March, spring, everything is fine: EUR 600 million can be allocated to the reserve fund. In the summer, we realize that you have another problem and that these 600 million are turning into less than 20 million! But you are already announcing that in the autumn we will have a new fiscal adjustment, because the figures can be much worse. There is now a question of having to find EUR 2 billion. All this, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, announces a fiscal winter and, above all, a social winter with all the measures you have already taken. You did not reply as to the necessary social protections, the guarantees requested. You're going to pursue your policy. It is a policy that leads us straight into the wall and towards a social and budgetary winter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u29	Mr President, I have often wondered about the meaning of the apocryphal versions of the New Testament. Every time I listen to Mr Verherstraeten, I understand better and better. Because I have to admit that with Mr. Verherstraeten, when you think you're approaching the truth, you can always count on the CD&V to get another one out of it. This is the great historical tradition of CD&V in Belgian political life. In short, Mr Verherstraeten has, better than the Prime Minister, said the new truth! Except that it is once again very relative and that it will be necessary to wait for further budgetary adjustments to approach the ultimate truth! In fact, Prime Minister, when you say that you have accepted the estimates submitted by the Ministry of Finance as such, that is what you are being reproached for! You are accused of not comparing the methodology previously followed by the Department of Finance that involved a much larger and more significant sample. And you have contented yourself with a totally minimalist approach to the Ministry of Finance! And you knew it! So don't come and tell us that, in the end, all this is just the scum of the Ministry of Finance's estimates! This is your political responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u30	Mr Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, I am of course speaking with a little more aloofness about the special financing law. The N-VA Group did not approve it, unlike the opposition. I can still hear Mrs Temmerman say it in March when she knew it was wrong. I can also hear Mr Calvo say: it is not the special financing law, it is the Minister of Finance. Sorry, Mr Calvo, the Court of Auditors came to the Finance Committee in March. The Court of Auditors then explained, through Mr Rudi Moens, a very learned formula and said that between the calculations of the Court of Auditors and the calculations of the Ministry of Finance there was a difference of less than 1%, i.e. 0.87%. In short, Mr Calvo, the calculations were confirmed by the Court of Auditors. I did not hear you contradict the Court of Auditors in the omniscience you have just shown. Neither do you, Mrs. Temmerman. So I have every confidence, Minister, that you will keep monitoring as tight as possible. However, we will always have to bear in mind that these are not accounts, but rather estimates. Not everyone here seems to want to realize that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u31	Mr President, Prime Minister, first of all, the figures. They're not definitive, everyone knows that. The question here is not about a few euros, but about this 600 million euros out of 750, which is an error on 80% of the sum. Then I persist and sign: the special financing law imposed on you the concertation, a royal decree already a year ago, and to transmit the figures transparently to the Regions as early as August 2014. That has not been done. The government would have come out – you laugh, Prime Minister, we're getting used to it, but you know...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u32	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u33	Of course, but on October 8, 2014, there was a government. And you started all your summer negotiations. As soon as the government was in place, you had these figures. This should have been the first gesture of responsible federalism on your part. The government would have grown up to recognize his mistake here. That was not the case. But at least have the courage, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to learn from what happened, for 2016 and for the years to come. It is certainly time to set up a group of experts between the federal government and the federated entities, who will monitor tax revenues on an ongoing basis. That is how we can have a constructive dialogue, transparency on the figures and, finally, a minimum of mutual respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u34	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister for Finance, ladies and gentlemen, recalculations are of all times. They were even before the sixth state reform. Let me refresh your memory. In 2009 we had a recalculation of 640 million euros for Flanders alone. Estimates and recalculations of estimates are of all times. Whether it is centralist France, federal Germany or confederal Belgium, we will always have to take it into account. The more autonomy, the more sensitive the estimates will be. I am addressing the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, whom I thank for their reply. I realise that in the coming days and weeks you will face even more complex problems at international level. We hope that there will be a solution. There are also problems at national level which will require a great deal from you. Our group also expects a great deal of it. On this point, I invite you both to speed up cooperation with the regions and, as the government agreement stipulates, to cooperate loyally and efficiently so that the sixth state reform can be implemented. You must issue the necessary KBs so that we can avoid the painful discussions, as we have seen them today and in the month of March.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u35	Mr Van Overtveldt, according to my information, you have had the new assessment since 29 June. Mr Temmerman has just asked you a question and you shook no. If not, I suggest you say so now. Did you get those numbers later than June 29th? Yesterday in the Flemish Parliament...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Van Overtveldt may nod or anything, but we are sticking to the format here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u37	Mr. Bracke, you no longer work at the VRT.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u38	I know.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u39	We don't reason in formats here. We are in Parliament. If a question is asked, there must be an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u40	You can ask questions through interplays and other means, but you are now in need of a reply to the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u41	What the hell is that, it doesn't fit in the format? This is the parliamentary format! Please! Mr Van Overtveldt says very basic...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u42	Mr. Calvo...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u43	Mr Bracke, it does not fit in the format you are interrupting me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u44	You've already used your time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u45	Excuse me? Come on!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u46	Yes, Mr Calvo. I'll give you 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u47	My information: June 29th, but he says he didn't. We'll see. Secondly, there is no answer to the question of the tax shift. We're gonna talk about Greece. Those Greeks are always explaining and not putting concrete reforms on the table: you are suffering from the Syrian complex, Mr Michel. What you accuse Syriza and Mr Tsipras, you do in the area of the tax shift: do not put anything on the table and always postpone. People are entitled to clarity, people are entitled to fair taxes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u48	Prime Minister, Minister, you have reaffirmed this commitment to transparency, that loyalty to the Regions, since it was the FPS Finance that calculated the PPI. In this regard, I would like to remind you that there is no tax administration at regional level today! Remind your regional minister! Loyalty, prudence, transparency on the part of this government, it hurts you, it hurts you! We hear it, we understand it. Take note of it! That is how this government will work. You'll have to get used to it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u49	Prime Minister, you're saying that Mr. Tsipras is putting a knife under your throat. You reverse the roles! Greece has suffered five years of dictatorship in Europe, and the only result today is a humanitarian catastrophe. Prime Minister, you say that Grexit is not an option for the Belgian government, and the Finance Minister repeated it yesterday. You and your European colleagues impose unacceptable conditions for Greece, which actually lead to Grexit! In fact, you are preparing this Grexit by trying to put the blame on Greece! Prime Minister, you say that Greece is not making a proposal. Say instead that you reject Greece's proposals! For example, the Belgian Government, like Mrs Merkel, opposes debt restructuring. Today, however, the IMF says that debt restructuring is necessary. This is indeed necessary because Greece is unable to repay its debts on time. You know that, but your motivation is not economic, your motivation is political! You want to exclude this Greece which sets a bad example for the other peoples of Europe. This Greece has just held a referendum, which is a historic event; 85% of young people in Greece voted no to austerity and yes in the future. It is not only in Greece that we see this movement, but for all the peoples of Europe. Mr Prime Minister, can you accept that countries in Europe are taking opposite paths to that of austerity, without pushing them out of the euro or Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u50	Mr Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, I would like to begin by saying that I am pleased that the Greek dossier is finally on the table where it should be, namely with the chefs and not in the hands of the technocrats and the figures fetishists, who are the finance ministers. Prime Minister, you will be meeting with your colleagues on Sunday. You face a difficult task and have to make decisions with potentially far-reaching consequences: a grexit and, who knows, even a euro at risk. Before you leave on Sunday, Parliament, as well as public opinion, is entitled to your opinion on two crucial questions. The first question is whether you consider that a debt restructuring of Greece could be part of the solutions? We note that the IMF, the US Finance Minister and many others believe that this is the case. What is the Belgian Government's position? The point of view of sp.a is that debt restructuring may be possible, but that it must be accompanied by reform. With reform, I say the second key word. Prime Minister, Europe and the euro area will have a third chance to help Greece. The first and second reforms have failed. Based on the neoliberal recipes, you have economically destroyed Greece and caused a social disaster. Our reform must be one that is socially and fiscally just. Prime Minister, I have a question for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u51	Mr Van der Maelen, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u52	Mr President, I think the issue is important enough. I have here the document of 26 June, the troika document, the document that was discussed just before the referendum.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u53	Mr Van der Maelen, you really need to finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u54	I read in that document that the troika is asking Greece to repeal a law adopted on 21 March which takes measures against capital flights and tax evasion by multinationals in Greece. Is that information correct, Prime Minister? If it is true, then it is once again proved that this government and this troika wants the Greeks to bleed, but wants to spare the capital.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u55	That was way too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u56	Mr President, Prime Minister, the Greeks are in default of payment. They voted no to the proposals of their creditors and their light attitude of the last few hours gives little hope for a negotiated solution. While expressing all my empathy to the Greek people, in our eyes and in the eyes of many citizens, the politicians of the time who brought Greece into Europe and who, for some, are still in command, are responsible for this disaster. The Greek figures were distorted and the officials knew that. Some even have the overtness to come in front of the cameras to comment on their solutions. Prime Minister Einstein said, "It will never be those who have created the problems that can solve them." Please shut up! Besides, there is nothing new under the sun. From their independence, the Greeks were in a structural situation of bankruptcy, forcing their debts to be paid by what was then called "the powers", because they were unable to raise the tax. Prime Minister, my question is threefold. Since wine is drawn, and it will have to be drunk, in the event of a confirmed defect or of exit from the euro, what will be the direct and indirect cost to Belgium and our fellow citizens? If the Greeks ask for a partial remission of their debt, i.e. to postpone the effort on the other European citizens, what will be the position of the Belgian government? Finally, is this justifiable in view of the efforts being made by the citizens of other countries in difficulty, such as Ireland and Portugal?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u57	Mr President, Prime Minister, last Sunday the Greeks said no to the unjust plan of creditors for their country. It's a no to everything they're going through. For you, Prime Minister, this may be a no to the European project. You have moved our country from an engine of the European project to a fierce supporter of the hard line that now rhymes with a Grexit. "If we help Greece, it's to see it live and not die," said your predecessor. We are far from it today, when you follow, with conviction, the position of the toughest. Instead of asking why the Greeks said a non-implacable in this referendum, you and your pro-austerity colleagues prefer to close their eyes. However, "the current austerity in Greece risks killing the patient" repeated Piketty a few days ago. Colleagues, to say that austerity works would be like pretending that the sun revolves around the Earth. Increasing VAT, reducing pensions, cutting in health care, without even asking the question of restructuring the debt of the Member States, is simply incomprehensible. Even the IMF, through Christine Lagarde, said yesterday that a restructuring of Greece's debt was necessary in order for it to have a viable debt. It is true that it is essential for the Greek Prime Minister to make serious, concrete and quantified proposals for reform. But to do so, we must give him the political space to lead them, to force him to take measures that effectively put an end to the privileges of the most wealthy, such as the Orthodox Church or the shipowners. It is simply democracy that must prevail. No other people have made so much effort. Mr Prime Minister, it is not enough to give lessons, as the Liberal Group leader in the European Parliament was arrogantly doing yesterday; decisions must be taken. I will ask three questions to the Prime Minister. What will be Belgium's position at the Economic and Financial Affairs Council (ECOFIN) and above all at this weekend's European Council? Will you be ready to formally veto Belgium against any possibility of Greece leaving the Eurozone and to take all the necessary measures to ensure European solidarity? Do you intend to address the issue of sovereign debts and their restructuring, as long as the IMF and even the MEP of your group, Louis Michel, are calling for a comprehensive solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u58	Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, like all the artisans and supporters of European integration, and the rest of them, I must express my concern at the financial, economic, geostrategic and democratic threats to which Europe is exposed as well. The debate we had yesterday in committee, which was also well held, did not reassure me. I was able to express to the Minister of Finance a disagreement over his overly unilateral view of the responsibility of the Greek government. Of course, it is heavy, but I think that the wrongs are shared in the persistence of the crisis that we are facing. Everyone, including the members of the troika, can sweep in front of their door, or they can constantly feed a dialogue of the deaf between those who are exasperated and those who claim to be indignant. My concern also concerns the role of Belgium. The Finance Minister said he was waiting with his colleagues for concrete proposals from the Greek government. This is a form of attentism that is not up to the stakes. I would really like Belgium to return to its own path when personalities like Herman Van Rompuy have been able to play an important role in European integration. Let us find our way, that of building the compromise, to try to gather on the essential elements! I was also a little frustrated not to find a vision of the future of Europe in yesterday's debate. Whatever! On the subject of debt restructuring, the Minister of Finance has somewhat closed the door, citing the risk of precedents for other countries. At the same time, however, the Finance Minister stressed that the IMF should not be seen as a group of technocrats, but also as a forum where many countries can sit. You said, Minister, that it would be good to listen to the view of the IMF from time to time, because it is an external point of view. Since then, the Managing Director of the IMF has stated that, in their view, debt restructuring is necessary in the case of Greece in order for it to have a viable debt. Mr Prime Minister, have you taken note of Mrs Lagarde's statements in favour of restructuring the Greek debt? Will the Belgian Government's position be in line with that of the IMF? Do you consider that any new initiative can only come from the Greek government or that Belgium could play a role in the emergence and construction of this compromise? Finally, what is the status of the discussions on economic policy in the euro area and on the assumption of a partial pooling of public debt?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue before us is indeed serious, not only in terms of possible economic and financial consequences, of social consequences for the Greek people, but also in terms of a certain idea of the European commitment and the future of Europe. There is also an obvious geopolitical dimension in the discussions that will have to continue in the coming hours and days. I would like to try to be precise and answer the various questions that have been asked. Yes, of course, we have read Christine Lagarde's statements. We are not surprised, these statements are not new. In recent weeks, perhaps even in recent months, we have indeed been able to establish a nuance between the IMF's statements on the one hand and those of the European Commission on the other. That's not new. It is right that the IMF should be open to restructuring, a redeployment of debt, but everything needs to be looked at. At the same time, the IMF is stricter than the European Commission on immediate structural reforms. It is therefore difficult to consider part of the reasoning that suits us and to ignore the rest. This is something that I wanted to draw Parliament's attention to. In addition, two weeks ago we made political proposals to the European Council. For example, I argued that Greece should be able to embark on a package of structural reforms, starting with the Commission's proposals, taking into account a reasonable capacity for amendment on the part of the Greek Government. If such a commitment had been made, I found that all States would have been available for discussion at the end of the year on a possible rescheduling of the debt – so this is in no way a herschikking, a rearrangement. Moreover, already in November 2010, the Eurogroup had explained in its conclusions that it was possible to have a discussion on debt, provided that there was a serious, concrete and precise programme of reform. Unfortunately, such a programme still does not exist. What have I established? Mr van der Maelen, I agree with you. Patrick Dewael said last week that it was a political debate. With my support, Mr Tsipras has often advocated a political debate. We had a chance this week. My fellow Members and I were therefore very surprised that Mr Tsipras did not put any concrete proposals on the table. Mr Hollande and Mr Renzi, not great European Liberals, were also surprised. They were even disappointed and concerned about the future. That is the reality, those are the facts. What is the situation for the next few hours and days, and what potential consequences for Belgium? A commitment was once again made, on the procedure, not on the substance. On Thursday we should receive a proposal from the Greek Government, which should be quickly analysed by the institutions and by the finance ministers. An exceptional meeting will take place on Sunday – one more, which shows the concern for solidarity, responsibility, the will to do everything possible to find solutions. As we speak, I am convinced that in recent months I have seen in the Greek government expressions, communications, but no decision on, for example, the fight against fraud, the question of shipowners, military expenditure. Do you know that Greece is the second largest contributor per capita, just behind Britain, in terms of military spending? We encourage a little more reason in this context. And I do not see today any agreement from the Greek government to move in that direction. Finally, I conclude by saying that the Europeans, the European Commission too, have put a lot of arguments on the table. For example, Jean-Claude Juncker proposed a €35 billion investment package long before the referendum. But as a matter of chance, this was not discussed in Greece at the time of the referendum. So my conclusion is very simple and I want to be very clear about it. We are determined and will do everything in our power to give Greece the opportunity to remain within the euro area. We are sure that the vast majority of the Greek population wants to remain in the euro area. We do not doubt that. However, I am asking the following question today. If I am convinced that the whole Greek population wishes to remain in the Eurozone, if I am convinced that the Belgian Government is prepared to do everything possible to allow Greece to remain in the Eurozone, I am asking myself today a fundamental question: does the Greek Government wish to do everything possible to do so? The answer will be given on Sunday.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u60	Mr President, Prime Minister, what is unbearable with you and with all the right-wing Conservatives, here and elsewhere in Europe, is the double morale that is yours. It is unbearable to hear Guy Verhofstadt calling for an end to the privileges of Greek shipowners and politicians when it is known that he sits on the board of directors of the shipowner Exmar and Sofina of the Boël family and that he receives 130,000 euros to attend four meetings. It is unbearable, Prime Minister, to know that you are participating in the world club of the privileged that is the Bilderberg at the expense of the taxpayer. It is unbearable to hear Juncker give lessons while he organized LuxLeaks' fraud in his country. It is unbearable to know that Barroso is going on vacation with the shipowner Spiro Latsis and that he allocates 10 million euros of subsidies to him. Prime Minister, what is unbearable is your double morals: "Do what I say, but not what I do". You have no lesson to teach Syriza about privileges and democracy! In my opinion, you have more to receive!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u61	Prime Minister, I have not received an answer to what worries me most. I have just said that there have been two attempts at reform. They do not work economically and cause social havoc. Mr Prime Minister, I asked you whether you would commit yourself on behalf of our country that the third attempt at reform is an attempt that does not add social pain to the ordinary Greek and is fiscally just and finally tackles the rich Greeks who have hidden EUR 120 billion in tax havens. Relatively, this is four times more than in Belgium, while the rich Belgians know the way to tax havens. I asked you to confirm this, Prime Minister. I'm still doing it in the asking form. I have here the document of June 26th. It shows the double morality of the right and the liberals. Last week, Mr Dewael said that the Greeks have no tax morals. However, on 21 March, the Syriza Government adopted a law which prevents money from going to Mr Dijsselbloem's country and Mr Juncker's country by means of mailboxes. It is through the Netherlands and Luxembourg that the flight of capital and the tax avoidance of multinationals from Greece is organised. This document, which was forced on Syria on 26 June, demands that the law of 21 March be repealed. Mr Prime Minister, that is cynicism at the top. The common Greek must bleed to death, but the capital must be protected. I expect you to oppose this type of reform plan, which is intended to impose Greece on us on Sunday.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u62	Prime Minister, the most advanced hypothesis at the moment would be the restructuring of Greek debt. This solution would be totally inadequate, because if Mr Tsipras had supported himself at the head of the government by the referendum on Sunday, whatever the result, his programme was absolutely incompatible with the euro area. The debt itself reaches almost a non-return threshold, the debt burden is four times higher than the European average and the competitiveness deficit is 30-40% compared to the euro area. It would therefore be necessary not only for reforms to be undertaken in depth, but also for the European Union to ensure a structural change in the Greek economy. Working on the denominator without taking into account the numerator would not serve the Greek government, let alone its people, with whom, I remind you, we are fully united. Mr Prime Minister, why not consider accompanying measures by the European Union and the Central Bank for a sufficient period of time for the recovery of growth which, for us, could only be achieved after an exit from the euro area and a devaluation of the drachma?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u63	Prime Minister, I hear your answers, and I see that you are always following the same logic: no good proposal from Greece, so we are waiting and we are not changing our attitude. I hope that when you have the Greek Government's proposals this evening, your position will evolve and you will emerge from your hard line that is leading us towards disaster. Get out of this line, be the basis of a new European momentum to get out of the suicidal carcan in which you put the Greeks but also all Europeans! It also requires strong signals of change of this line! As a reminder, in 1953, when Germany requested a rescheduling of its debt, creditors agreed to remove 62 per cent of its debt. It also benefited from a five-year moratorium on interest and a 30-year moratorium on repayment. Get inspired by this! Change the line, Europe is better than postures! Europe deserves Belgium's total opposition to the exit from Greece. We're counting on you! It's not too late, but it's time!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u64	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. Given the seriousness of the situation, we must avoid – I speak for each other – any form of verbal overbidding. We must avoid postures in one direction or the other. You have to avoid taking a lesson. The worst scenario for me is the Grexit scenario, the worst for the Greeks, the worst for European construction. In the coming days, there may be a momentum to grasp. Indeed, on the one hand, the Greek government announces the submission of credible proposals – we will have to verify it – and, on the other hand, the IMF opens a space for discussion and reflection on the treatment of Greek debt. I think that we must seize this moment by resuming the tradition of our country, the tradition of dialogue, of consultation, not to pit each other against each other but to try to clear the way for compromise. If we do, if you do this work, we will have done a useful work for European integration. Beyond austerity policies, let us give a positive signal, in terms of quality of life, to all Europeans. Beyond the necessary accounting balance, let us also try not to lose sight of the need to invest in the economy. Beyond everyone for himself, let us not lose sight of the geostrategic interests which are common to the whole European area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u65	Minister, I do not need to tell you how important e-commerce is to our trade. I believe that our government is well aware of this. The government has clearly committed itself to taking measures to further facilitate e-commerce. This is really a booming business and I am glad that Schoenen Torfs announced this week that it will set up a large additional distribution center in Temse in the next few months, where new employment will be realized. In short, things are going well. And yet, Minister, quatons sometimes claim that it is still too slow because the measures promised by the government still have to be implemented. That would get jobs lost. Minister, what are your plans in the next few weeks or months to ensure that as many and as soon as possible additional jobs are achieved in e-commerce in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u66	Minister, the problem of night work in e-commerce was already put on the agenda by a number of Members of Parliament at the beginning of the year. The problem is that one cannot work here between 20:00 and 6:00, which can be done abroad. Comeos, the representative of trade and services, has calculated that Belgium has already missed 8 300 jobs and that it may again miss 30 000 jobs over the next three years if adjustments are not made. Belgium would thus see EUR 2.4 billion disappearing abroad. Minister, you already had a round table with the actors concerned in May, and there was a new round table yesterday. Not only night work but also other areas of pain have been mentioned. However, it did not come to an agreement to make e-commerce more competitive in our country. It was agreed that an agreement should be reached by 1 January 2016. Unfortunately, that is six months later than we had hoped. The reality is that most such companies operate from abroad, where the labour regulations are even more flexible than we do. Every day of delay results in job losses, or jobs that cannot be filled out. Today we hear that bol.com, a part of Ahold/Delhaize, is building a new distribution centre of 50 000 m2 in Waalwijk, in the Netherlands. So that is as big as seven football fields, and about 1 000 jobs are created. The Belgian Heylen Group is building a 140 000 m2 distribution centre in Venlo, where 2 000 people will be employed. Those are all jobs we don't bring in here. Indeed, fortunately there are local entrepreneurs who want to invest here, including Mr Torfs, who will raise a distribution centre of about EUR 5 million in Temse. The only thing we don't know is how many effective jobs that will produce, but at least there won't be thousands. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. The introduction of night work is apparently agreed. What other points of pain still need to be resolved? The negotiations would continue for another six months. You say that we need to fine-tune what e-commerce means and that we need to ensure that these jobs are quality jobs. Please explain to me what you mean by "quality jobs" because apparently the tens of thousands of jobs created abroad in e-commerce are not high quality.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u67	You must conclude, Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u68	What measures will you develop by 1 January if the actors concerned fail to reach agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the field of budgetary control, the federal government has made it very clear that there are a lot of opportunities for e-commerce in Belgium and that many additional jobs can be achieved. We have also agreed that we want to give all the opportunities for consultation in this area and that in July, where we are now, we want to know where we stand and make a proposal. We held a first round table on 5 May. There were 40 organisations, both employers and employees. In this way, more than 400 000 employees were represented, both by enterprises and by trade unions. At that time, we agreed to discuss a number of technical issues further bilaterally. On 8 July we held a second round table, with the question of where we are now. I am very positive, because we have found that the social partners, both employers and employees, say that they have already included the problem in the collective agreement negotiations. They want to work on that further. Those who talk about social dialogue but here believe that the problem can be solved by law are mistaken, because that would take longer than if the social partners themselves came to conclusions and opinions. It is true that we need to introduce this in Belgium as soon as possible. I am convinced that it is possible and that it is best done on the basis of a unanimous opinion from the social partners. The collective agreements that have now been concluded state that we are absolutely committed to e-commerce and night work. Secondly, the social partners want to take this on their own. That is a good thing. You refer to Comeos, Mr Janssen. They made it very clear yesterday or the day before yesterday that they want to have time to negotiate this with the syndicates. Thirdly, it is quite right that we must make progress. If the social partners unanimously ask for a few more months so that they can land by the end of the year, then I am the first to give them that opportunity. I also said that I would like to continue to prepare the royal decisions needed to enable night work in Belgium. I do not want to waste time and at the same time I want to be sure that at the end of the year we will introduce night work and e-commerce on the basis of social dialogue in general. Mr Terwingen referred to it, the very dynamic company Schoenenen Torfs said that it does not move to the Netherlands but stays in Belgium. I hope this Flemish company gets a lot of follow-up. Despite the fact that night work has not yet been introduced here, such entrepreneurs remain with us. That deserves respect. All the examples you quote should actually refer to Shoes Torfs. The social partners have asked for a few more things to be looked at. By the end of the year, they want to make agreements. They already agree with the fact that we are already preparing KBJVs. I am very positive that we will succeed in this by the end of the year. I am convinced that it is a better solution than to pass a law now. In this case, the employment regulations in the company must also be adapted. If the workers cannot be found out, then they are even further away from home than ever before. I very much welcome the positive reactions of the social partners in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u70	Minister, your message is clear. We must do everything we can to improve and bring into force the conditions surrounding e-commerce in Belgium as soon as possible. I'll join you in full. It can be pushed down the throats of all the parties involved, but it can also be done through social dialogue. The right steps are being taken at the moment. You have to do it the way you do it. In December 2015, we will evaluate and see how far we can get. For companies like this, the cost of wages is very important. Important steps are also being taken here. It is known that Limburg is the ideal place to settle from 2016, given the specific measures taken in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u71	Unfortunately, Minister, I have not been given an answer to the question of what is a quality job. Nor did we say here that it should all be pushed down the throats of workers or employers. I only note that thousands of jobs were created abroad that were not created in this country, while we are looking for jobs in Limburg and all the other provinces in this country. It is time for the actors around the table to understand the need to reach an agreement quickly. Let us be clear, you have been given six months. However, if the social partners have not reached an agreement within six months, then politics must certainly assume its responsibilities. There'll have to be a plan on the table that'll be pushed through.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u72	In the meantime, Minister, everyone knows that this government does not want to take further steps on state reform and that Community issues are strictly prohibited. The pause button remains pressed for five years, that is clear. Before the elections, the Minister of the Interior stated in the newspaper that he would not join a government if there was no major state reform. This weekend, he gave an interview to Le Soir in which he defended the Community's standstill under the motto: "I prefer no state reform to a bad state reform." Both you and the Minister for the Interior and your fellow Members in the Flemish Government have committed themselves to it and agreed to carry out a bad sixth state reform. It is precisely that sixth state reform that the Minister of the Interior says in the interview that I quote: 'Il y a des problèmes dans la sixième réforme de libreÉtat et il faut résoudre cela le plus vite possible'. We predicted that the implementation of the sixth state malformation would cause problems, but I would like to know what problems the Minister has in this interview. Secondly, I would also like to know whether there has been any consultation in the nuclear cabinet to resolve these problems as soon as possible. 'Le plus vite possible', may I conclude from this that this legislative process will be resolved, or is the omerta, the Community duty of silence, so absolute that even this cannot be done and that it will continue to be muddled for a number of years, so that it will only be for the next legislature? I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u73	Mrs Pas, on behalf of the Minister for the Interior, I thank you for your question. I can confirm that Mr Jambon did not say anything new in the interview with Le Soir. However, when the federal government was formed, it was agreed that the Community file should be left to rest during this term of office, and that is what we are sticking to. Minister Jambon has merely reiterated that there are at least a lot of shortcomings in the division of powers resulting from the sixth state reform. That position has been taken by us for some time now, even before the formation of the government. We are and remain a consistent and loyal partner of this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u74	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am sorry that Mr Jambon himself has not come to reply. He wasn't apologized or reported as absent. I did not receive any answers to my questions. What kind of problems did he mean in that interview? Will this legislature be resolved? Your answer does not reassure me very much. You reaffirm the Community's standstill. The day after tomorrow, on 11 July, as flamingant for one day, you will undoubtedly try to ease your conscience, but for the rest of the year you will keep everything that is Community on the agenda. Unfortunately, I have to say that the only force of change in practice is that the French-speaking people no longer reject the Community, simply because the N-VA does not even put it on the table anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u75	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, police reform is about fifteen years behind us, and I believe that majority and opposition agree that this has been a successful operation with falling crime rates, more confidence in the police and a better managed local police. An important issue, which has not yet been resolved, is the question of the core tasks. This government promises to be able to make a difference. We also believe that Minister Jambon will succeed. In fact, the Open Vld has been a long-running party on this issue. Yesterday, on the VTM news, a number of ideas were circulating to reject certain tasks. I am thinking, among other things, of the cavalry and the problem of traffic education. We are in favour of this, we will support the Minister. However, it is equally important to mention what tasks the police want to do and what tasks it can do better. I would like to give you briefly three examples of things that really need improvement. Firstly, the problem of border crime affecting all border areas in our country, including West Flanders. A camera shield that we built with the local police zones and thanks to the efforts of our governor we can tackle this problem. However, the co-operation of the federal police is lacking in this respect, unfortunately. Secondly, the problem of cybercrime. This was also discussed in connection with the incident in Verviers, where the police did a good job. It appears, however, that we are lagging behind in this respect. Thirdly, this week an opinion paper in the newspaper De Morgen showed that we are lagging behind other countries in the field of post-mortem investigations. In other words, the number of unsolved perfect murderers appears to be far too large. Minister, I have three questions. Firstly, is it true that before the recess you wish to conclude the government debate on the core tasks? Has it been decided which bodies will carry out these outsourced tasks? Secondly, what about the tasks where the police should be able to work better? I'm thinking border crime, technology, cybercrime and post-mortem investigations. Thirdly, what I also think is important is better cooperation between the local police, which is well managed, and the federal police. What plans do you have in that respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u76	Mr President, Mr Van Quickenborne, on behalf of Minister Jambon, thank you for your question. As Minister Jambon has already replied a number of times, including to Mr Pivin in plenary on 25 June, the debate on the core tasks has been dragging on for ten years. In the coalition agreement, it was agreed that the debate should finally be brought to a conclusion. As the Minister has already replied several times in plenary session and in committee meetings, a task force has been set up which has prepared a report with open vision for several months. During the preparation of the report, a survey and discussions were started with different stakeholders. That work is over now. A final report is currently being prepared, which will be presented to the core before the recess. The discussion in Parliament can take place at the beginning of the new year of work. The document mentioned in the press has been leaked a little early, and I am the right person to bring this message, as unfortunately happens more often. However, it is too early to make any decisions. As you know, police optimisation and cooperation between the federal and local police will depend on the outcome of the discussions, which are still to be followed. Political choices have not yet been made. We will look at the full report with open eyes, Mr Jambon said, and without taboos, and will make final choices after a thorough analysis and a good debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u77	Minister, we are pleased that there is normally a solution in the core before the recess. The opinion piece I referred to also contained an interesting statement by Professor Cyrille Fijnaut, one of the authors of the police reform. He said it's not important what the number of police officers counted is, but the efficiency, the involvement and the technology we can offer. If that becomes the philosophy of the planned reform, then at least you can count on the full support of our group for the implementation of the fantastic coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u78	Mr President, it is very good that today we have the opportunity to take stock of the situation after the holding of the "elections" on 29 June and before those which should follow and which concern the Presidency. Much is being said, but unfortunately, freedom of the press in Burundi is still severely affected by the lack of funding for this basic democratic tool. Minister, we are also afraid for our nationals on the spot. There is also a lot of talk about the migratory flows that have still taken place on election day itself. We are talking about 10,000 people who have left Burundi to go to neighbouring countries. This, of course, raises a number of questions. Minister, I would like to know your analysis of the June election. Can you inform us about the current level of security in Burundi, in the capital, but also in rural areas where most of the facts are not adequately reported to us? What avenues exist to help Burundi's neighbouring countries, which are facing a large migratory flow? There were 6,000 refugees in Tanzania, among others, and 3,000 in Rwanda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u79	Minister, a few days ago, pseudo-legislative and communal elections were held in Burundi. The way in which these elections and their counting have been organised leaves us with no voice. President Nkuruzinza continues to deny international pressure, snore the views of his colleagues, the heads of State of the East African Community, who, too, this week, called for a postponement of the presidential elections. The situation is becoming more and more difficult. Threats of civil war are beginning to circulate in Burundian land. Belgium has a key role to play in this context. Minister, I welcome your statements that our country will not recognize the elections held in this chaos. It is a strong signal to the Burundian power. Today, we are waiting for the European Union to also make this strong gesture, a move which is still pending, when we know that, at the last European Foreign Affairs Council on 22 June, where you were present, the opposition to the third mandate was not even mentioned in the conclusions. Can you therefore confirm that you will ask the European Union not to endorse the outcome of these elections and continue to put pressure on the power in place? The European Parliament is about to vote today on a resolution calling for compliance with the Arusha agreements and the postponement of the elections. It also calls for the development of a list of targeted restrictive measures and visa and travel bans against those responsible for acts of violence, repression and serious human rights violations. It also calls on the Vice-President, Federica Mogherini, to take the necessary measures to freeze the assets of all these persons in the Member States of the Union. Are you ready, Minister, to take such action in Belgium? Finally, it also calls on the Commission to re-evaluate EU aid as a matter of urgency in order to reorient it by increasing financial support to civil society and focusing on humanitarian aid to the detriment of general budgetary support. For, beyond any pressure, beyond any sanction, let us not forget that, behind all these decisions, there is a suffering people, Burundians who are obliged to leave their territory and, above all, a partner country that cannot be let down! Are you ready, together with your colleague the Minister for Cooperation, to reorient humanitarian aid to this country through civil society?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u80	Minister, we have been questioning the Belgian Government for a few weeks about the situation in Burundi. It is also important and worrying. The region is a powder keg. We know the situation of the Great Lakes. There are the Arusha agreements that have brought a lot of stability after 13 years of civil war. Also on an ethnic level, tensions are particularly intense, although fortunately they have not yet surfaced. We have had parliamentary elections in Burundi and soon we will have presidential elections. The date for this is still July 15th. We have a president who insists on holding on to a third term of office, which goes against the peace agreements. He therefore puts his personal ambition above the general interest of the region in terms of stability and peace. Minister, I have a few questions about this. First of all, how do you view these presidential elections? After all, the East African leaders have called for a postponement. Paragraph 11 of the resolution we have adopted here in Parliament calls on the Belgian Government to freeze the funds of those guilty of violating human rights and committing violence, in order to be able to take as many personal sanctions as possible against those people. Two weeks ago, you said in plenary that this is being done at European level. Secondly, I would also like to ask you about the implementation of Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreements. They allow us to enter into a dialogue with Burundi, a dialogue that could lead to the lifting of development cooperation with that country. I would ask you, Minister, not to simply abolish development cooperation, but to reorient it as far as possible, away from state to state, but to work as much as possible through NGOs in an indirect way so that the people of Burundi do not fall victim to the sanctions that we take and which are justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u81	Mr President, I will not go back to the whole debate or to the history of our contacts with Burundi. I will retain three elements. First of all, as I said before this House, we cannot recognize the credibility of the parliamentary and municipal elections that took place at the end of June. Freedom of the media was fictional. Similarly, the opposition did not take part in the vote – we did not send observers. It is clear that these elections were not credible and that we cannot recognize their outcome. Then, several people leave the country. I would like to say right away that we are obviously concerned about the situation of refugees, but also about the situation of expatriates. The Minister of Defence and I have already taken steps to strengthen security around the embassy, but also to take into account what needs to be done. Indeed, we have the responsibility of 1,600 to 1,700 people - Belgians and other nationalities that depend on us. We must therefore pay attention to this. I have received several people who, with the support of our embassy, have been able to leave the country. I am thinking of the Vice-President of the Constitutional Court, the Second Vice-President and the President of the National Assembly. There are others, but I'm not going to go into the details for obvious security reasons. They also appeal for continued pressure on the Burundian authorities. We're working on it. Mr De Vriendt, we will continue to follow the same path we have followed in the last week. I also asked Europe to apply individual sanctions. They are preparing for this. We have also started discussions within the EU on the possible use of Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement. That would be a logical step. Both bilaterally and multilaterally, it is Belgium's intention not to abolish development cooperation, but rather to refocus ourselves towards real and direct contact with the population. That will not be easy with the new President, or at least the President in Burundi in his third term. Mr President, I would just like to conclude by saying that of course we want to mobilise not only the European Union, but also the African Union and, if possible, the East African community. President Museveni was appointed to try to mediate. Let us hope that it will allow us to resume dialogue. In any case, that's all we want. But we will have to remain very careful, maintain pressure and, if necessary, take very clear decisions following the elections scheduled for 15 July to review our cooperation policy and redefine our relationship with Burundi, including the measures to be taken at European level with regard to sanctions and the implementation of the Cotonou agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u82	Minister, thank you. It will not be a surprise, I share your vision of our duty to continue to put pressure on the Burundian authorities. I also hear the difficulty, and that was rightly said by my colleague, Mr. De Vriendt, what NGOs are going to have to work on the spot. I think that, too, we will need to have a debate in committee in order to deepen the existing possibilities. As far as the Reform Movement is concerned, we are at your side to develop the possibilities and proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u83	Minister, thank you for your answers. The coming days will obviously be crucial for Burundi. There is a risk that violence will increase and the situation will deteriorate. In this context, as you say, as my colleague has said, we must continue to maintain the pressure, but above all not let the Burundian population down. That must remain our priority, whether in Burundi or in all neighbouring countries hosting a very large number of refugees. I really count on you, in this holiday period, to keep you attentive to all these issues, and also attentive to the situation of the press, which is dramatic. We also have a role to play. We have already had an opportunity to discuss it. I believe that here too, the press will have to be given the means to be able to exist again in Burundi.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u84	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. I just hope that it will produce something and that we should not talk at one of our last plenary sessions about the violence that is erupting in Burundi. We can always do that, of course, and we must pay attention to that. I wonder if there are any other ways to increase the pressure. What is moving within Africa itself? I hear Museveni is taking on a diplomatic role. Is he the right person for that? There are differences of opinion on this issue. Two weeks ago, you said in plenary that we can move quickly with these individual sanctions. Then let us examine that as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u85	Minister, I am surprised that I am the only one asking a question on the subject. I would very much like to start with a quote from a song by a Dutch singer, about children in the war. Through broken streets, without father, without land, you walk helplessly abandoned by your mother's warm hand, like a sheep among the clouds, the destination unknown, and no one sees how small you are." Minister, yesterday I saw the press release from you and your colleague, Theo Francken. You have given 70 families with children a new destination. They can come to Belgium and they will have another future in our country. Minister, our group welcomes our country's participation in the initiative to protect Christians from Aleppo, a heavily oppressed minority group in Syria. However, you have probably also read the critical questions of the press on the social media. This is a cause for concern in our society. They are initially indignant, but at the same time they are hopeful and happy, because you have taken such action, together with your colleague. I think it is important, given the scale of the rescue and the interest it brings with it, that you answer a number of questions. Can you give more information on how the Belgian Government came to that decision and how the operation was launched? What did the timeline look like? What was our government's contribution to the rescue? I hear that the refugees had to travel to Lebanon on their own accord and that they had to take the plane to Belgium there. What prior actions has the Belgian Government taken? The selection on the spot must have been particularly difficult. I wonder on what criteria the decision was taken? What initiatives will you take to implement similar actions in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u86	Mrs Lijnen, it seems to me normal for the government to respond to the call from an action group, consisting of a large number of people, on the very difficult situation in Aleppo. It's easy to talk about minorities all the time, but it was also necessary to do something. Since the start of the Syrian crisis, more than 5 500 Syrians have been granted protection status in Belgium. No distinction was made. It concerns in that group more than 5 500 Syrians, first and foremost Muslims. We are prepared to do more in the future, and we have also informed the European Commission of this. We are prepared to include more Syrians in the following months and years, but the question for the Christians from Aleppo was certainly specific. Christians are specifically endorsed by the radical and terrorist group Daesh because of their faith. So something had to be done urgently. Since the beginning of May, in a very good cooperation with my colleague, Secretary of State Theo Francken, and our embassy in Beirut, we have been working on a solution. A selection has been made, with the cooperation of the action group, which was in contact with several residents of Aleppo, and the Security of the State. We must have certainty about the identity of those involved. Many families have now arrived in Belgium. It concerns 244 people who are protected. I would like to thank the action group, not only for asking that question, but also for assisting and offering assistance to Syrians in Belgium. This is possible, not only thanks to the government, but also thanks to individual actions by many Belgians. To be specific, we are prepared to do more in the future. We have done a lot without any differentiation, but now we had a very specific case: those people have been in danger for several months. It was useful to do something. I hope that it may be an example for other countries to go in the same direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u87	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It's been a very nice gesture from the government. You underline that the action is not based on selective compassion, but that secret missions and operations can still take place in the future. It is very important to further frame sustainable solutions at international level, at European level, as well as within Belgium within well-considered policy areas. It should be possible that in future vulnerable victims from South Sudan, Burundi, Yemen, etc., will also be able to count on Belgium. You have my support for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u88	Mr President, Minister, a recent budgetary check at the Social Security Management Committee shows a further slippage in sickness and invalidity benefits. Between 2010 and 2020, these expenditures will increase by only 66% to the staggering amount of around EUR 3.6 billion on an annual basis. An additional EUR 181 million has already been spent on the 2015 budget alone. For 2016, this is even an additional expenditure of EUR 418 million or 50% of the total budget deficit in social security. Those figures were more than sufficient to activate all the orange flashing lights, both at the government and at the RIZIV. In this way, the progress made by the government through a number of interventions in unemployment, early retirement benefits and bridge pensions will be offset by rising expenditure on sickness and invalidity. We absolutely must break through this crippling logic of communicating vessels in order to prevent this trend from undermining the affordability of our social security system. Madam Minister, in an unguarded moment, you have let go of the fact that your pockets have been sewn shut and that there are no further savings in social security. If by that you mean that it is better not to cut the amounts of individual sickness and invalidity benefits, then my group fully agrees with you. We are convinced, however, that we must better monitor the influx into the system and thus keep costs under control. I would like to remind you of the coalition agreement which provides for a thorough reform of that system, with the focus being on a mandatory reintegration plan for all sick people after three months. Timely intervention and an independent multidisciplinary approach are central to this. We also need to focus on what someone can do instead of what people can't do anymore. Madam Minister, what progress has been made with the introduction of this mandatory reintegration plan? In particular, is the approach you have in mind thorough and fundamental enough to stop that rising spiral for sickness and disability costs?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u89	Mr President, Mr Spoelen, I will not stick to the figures. As you know, this week there will be figures from the Monitoring Committee. I think only sensible statements can be made about correct figures. Everyone following this theme, and we have been doing so for a few years, is seeing a sharp increase in the number of people in disability and disability. The main objective reason for this is the ageing of the population. People who are older are usually sick more often and longer. That's a natural fact. We also know that raising the retirement age for women and equalising women has an impact on the retirement age. It's already been well documented. In fact, the coalition agreement agreed to create the possibility for chronic sick or sick people to start a reintegration process. That is the philosophy in which we mainly want to help those entitled to do what they can still do and not just give them benefits and let them continue to suck. In the Programme Act of 29 December 2014, this Parliament has already approved the introduction of a multidisciplinary reintegration plan. It was said at that time, including by you, that not all the elements have already been described. This is new to our country and we have therefore decided to do so through royal decisions. A number of mandatory opinions and deadlines are needed. They must be established by a royal decree. Over the past few months, we have already had very intensive consultations with the actors in the field, with stakeholders and, politically, with the coalition partners to work out the modalities of this plan. We all want it to be a positive story and we are currently finalizing the last formal stages. When I said that I wasn't actually for more spending, the sewn pockets became a story in itself. This is a whole different story.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u90	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. This shows that the reintegration plan is already in the scaffolding. I would like to warn you from our group that this exercise is too superficial. A new approach can only succeed if a number of essential elements are changed. However, I would like to point out that the key role in drawing up and following up the labour integration process must be shifted from the counsellor to the company doctor or an independent labour integration expert. The process of drawing up such a plan must be possible very quickly. Studies show that there is the greatest chance of success. There must be a certain responsibility on the part of the employee to use this residual capacity. I am counting on you to include these elements in the exercise you are doing and that a result can be presented in the RB that can really improve the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u91	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u92	The next item is the secret vote on naturalisations. (1188/1-2) The next item is the vote on naturalisations. (1188/1-2) Members are invited to deposit the proposal of naturalisation laws in the ballot box. Members are requested to submit the proposed naturalization laws in the ballot box. The proposal of naturalisation laws must not be signed. The proposed naturalization laws cannot be signed. Where a member opposes the naturalisation of an applicant, he shall delete the name of the interested party from the list which was delivered to him. A member who does not intend to grant naturalization to an applicant will delete the name of the applicant from the list given to him. Two Members must vote. I propose that our youngest two Members, Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou and Mrs Yoleen Van Camp, be appointed as voters. Two members shall proceed to the counting of the ballot. I propose that you appoint the two youngest members, Nawal Ben Hamou and Yoleen Van Camp, as deputy returning officers. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u93	We are going to close the secret vote on naturalization applications. We will close the ballot for naturalization applications. I would ask those Members who have not yet done so to put their ballots on the bus immediately. I ask those members who have not yet tabled their ballots to do so immediately. The secret ballot is closed. I declare the ballot closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u94	The Government has informed me that it is withdrawing urgent procedure pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure for the draft law approving the Council Decision of 26 May 2014 on the system of the European Union's own resources (2014/335/EU, Euratom), No. 1185/1. The Government has informed me that it withdraws its request for urgency under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure for the draft law approving the Council Decision of 26 May 2014 on the system of the European Union's own resources (2014/335/EU, Euratom), No 1185/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u95	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I also propose that Mr Siegfried Bracke amend Rule 9 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Representatives (No. 1249/1) to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u96	I also propose that you take into account Mr Siegfried Bracke's proposal to amend Rule 9 of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives (No 1249/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u97	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u98	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 30 June 2015. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 30 June 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 055/1): a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Muriel Gerkens; A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Philippe Pivin. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 055/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Muriel Gerkens; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Philippe Pivin. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when we discussed government statements, we had already highlighted the fact that the health of citizens is measured not only in access to care, but also in access to healthy life. This access to healthy life is more than 75% due to the following determinants: social status, precariousness, certainty of keeping one's job, exclusion or non-exclusion of certain rights, and also the living environment. The figures we now know about early mortality show in a significant and increasing way in Belgium that there is a flagrant inequality between Belgian citizens in terms of early mortality and poor health. I questioned the Prime Minister, and I also questioned the Minister of Health. It seemed to me important to question the Prime Minister as this is a cross-cutting issue that requires consideration of a variety of considerations. The Prime Minister told me that there is a plan to fight poverty, and another plan to improve access to health care. These are measures that have been announced, but that are not happening. I'm still waiting for the plan to fight poverty. On the other hand, and that is why I have tabled a motion despite the Prime Minister's response, the government has not complied with and is failing to comply with its obligation to submit any bill or political decision commensurate with the impacts on the environment, social aspects and citizens. Had these impacts been measured, we would have been informed and these decisions would not have been made. I therefore call for compliance with this provision and for the withdrawal of social policies which have been initiated and which are preventing more and more citizens from gaining access to health.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u100	Mr President, I was not present at the inquiry of our colleague, Mrs Gerkens, to the Minister of Health. On the other hand, I was there when she called the Prime Minister and I did not hear what is currently causing your reservations. On the contrary, I have heard the Prime Minister list the measures that are being taken, both in terms of public health and the fight against poverty. The listing of measures to combat the phenomena you denounce is a priority for this government, and it is of course thanks to them that the well-being of our citizens can be improved, particularly in the field of health. That is the reason for the simple motion, Mr. Chair.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u101	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u102	Yes 79 Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 137 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u103	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society on 1 July 2015. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Health, the Environment and the Social Renewal of 1 July 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 035/1): a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Jean-Marc Nollet; A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Benoît Friart et Dirk Janssens. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 035/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Jean-Marc Nollet; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Benoît Friart and Mr Dirk Janssens. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u104	Mr. Speaker, this motion is the simplest one I have ever had to table since it simply calls for Parliament to endorse the recommendations of the federal report. In the debate we had in committee on the inquiry, the minister, in her reply, was open to the recommendations published by the Committee on Sustainable Development, but there was nevertheless – I think it is usually – the tabling of a simple motion. This is probably due to a mistake or to the speed of the facts in committee, we can understand that. I would then like to ask anyone from the majority to explain, among the recommendations, which ones may be problematic. For the time being, in the minister's answer, I have not been able to point to it. It is a motion that simply asks to endorse the recommendations. If there is a problem, let's say explicitly which one.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u105	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like first of all to point out that Mrs Marghem has responded extensively and broadly to Mr Nollet's questions about the report of the Federal Bureau of Planning and the lessons to be drawn from it. The Minister also pointed out that sustainable development was a priority for this government, as evidenced by the government's agreement. She recalled the ambitious targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. This is a reduction of 80 to 95 per cent in 2050 compared to 1990. It recalled Belgium's commitment to respect its commitments, both at European and international level. In committee, Mr. Nollet said that he appreciated the Minister's response. Therefore, we are surprised at the tabling of his motion. On the other hand, the minister indicated that all the recommendations in the report were very interesting, but that it should be borne in mind that they were not necessarily linked to the policies that the government intended to develop throughout this legislature. Mr. Nollet, your motion to require that all recommendations in the report be implemented by the federal government is unrealistic and utopian. It also ignores Minister Marghem's many commitments to sustainable development. We therefore call for the vote on the motion to be pure and simple.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u106	The Rules of Procedure do not allow the debate to be reopened, Mr Nollet. Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u107	Yes 79 Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 137 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u108	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises on 1 July 2015. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises of 1 July 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 056/1): a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Olivier Maingain; A simple motion was tabled by Mrs. Inez De Coninck, Ms. Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and Mr. Emmanuel Burton and Gilles Foret. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 056/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Olivier Maingain; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Inez De Coninck and Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and by Mr Emmanuel Burton and Mr Gilles Foret. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u109	Mr President, my motion follows my inquiry, in which I relayed the position taken by twelve associations representing the committees of inhabitants of both Brussels and its northern and eastern periphery. It is a first in the political history of our country to see associations representative of all the populations concerned by the plans of aerial overflights be associated in a common platform aiming at a number of objectives in order to provide a definitive answer to this problem which we have been pursuing for so many years and for so many governments, namely the sometimes anarchic operation of the Brussels-National airport. As I told Mrs. Galant, she's lucky. This is the first time that all these neighbourhood committees, which have often had conflicting views, have defended a common point of view which, today, is relayed by many communal councils. And in order to help Mrs Galant take the leadership desired by these unanimous neighbourhood committees more quickly, I have tabled a motion that should help the majority to take a favourable attitude, since it is never that the motion voted almost unanimously on the municipal council of the city of Brussels, including MR. So I dare to believe that, at the very least, on the benches of the majority, the MR will not be indifferent to what these communal councillors ask of the city of Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Maingain, as you have certainly heard in committee, I can remind you that the minister has made it clear that she will work in accordance with the government agreement, of course, and also with full respect for the analysis of night activities from and to Brussels-National airport. It would therefore be imprudent to give instructions without having a global view of everything that covers night activities at the airport and certainly not without consultation with all the actors, as the minister rightly recalled at the committee. A balance must therefore be struck between economic development and the well-being of the residents, and to that end, having an overview is essential. We therefore welcome the fact that these associations are being brought together, but we do not consider it appropriate to table a motion for recommendation, given the work in progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u111	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 3) Yes 79 Yes No 58 No. Abstentions 0 Abstentions Total 137 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u112	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be forwarded to the Senate. (1215/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be sent to the Senate. (1215/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u113	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 134 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1136/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1136/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u114	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1151/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1151/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u115	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1187/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1187/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u116	Vote on Amendment No 1 by David Geerts cs in recital D. (1117/4) Vote on Amendment No 1 by David Geerts cs to Recital D. (1117/4) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes [[47]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 2 by David Geerts cs at point 1. (1117/4) Vote on Amendment No 2 by David Geerts cs in point 1. (1117/4) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u117	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u118	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u119	Mr President, I am sorry that the amendments have not been adopted. As has already been said yesterday, we cannot basically accept that an innocent motion for a resolution like this should refer to the dogmatic of a majority privatisation logic.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u120	Mr President, we will not, of course, support that amendment and the resolution will. I would also like to point out to Mr Geerts that the approach in this resolution is exactly the same as that of the Ghent city administration led by fellow party members of Mr Geerts, for example during the Ghent Festivals. They no longer develop apps, but make the data available. They claim that the market can do better than it can and that they therefore no longer do so themselves. We follow this logic.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u121	Mr President, I understand the anger of the majority. As we were able to verify yesterday, she lacks overall elegance, but here in particular, when she tries to make a false trial on this case. Yesterday, we handed him the pole, we asked him to accept Mr Geerts' amendments. It was an opportunity to eliminate any false debate between us. Of course we are in favour of open data. We support this in a spirit of intermodality, efficiency and genuine modernisation in the field of mobility. We will have an important debate next week. I hear we'll discuss a plan, a strategic vision. This term seems ambitious to us on the part of this government, but in addition to doing so for SNCB, it is a triple bet on the part of Mrs Galant. It is asked here to ensure that data are open to SNCB, in a context where privatisation is opened up and no beacons are given in terms of data commodification and therefore respect for privacy. We had the opportunity, with the amendments. As such, we made an almost pathetic appeal to Mr. Van den Bergh to make him aware of it – usually, his party is receptive to the last one who submitted a proposal to him. We have tried to avoid unnecessary controversy and thus ensure that we can vote unanimously in favour of this modernization. Obviously, the majority did not want it. That is why we are voting against.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u122	Mr President, our group will abstain from this motion for a resolution. We are somewhat tired of finding that the SNCB file is permanently sausageed. In fact, we are being announced a debate on the modernisation of SNCB next week. There is no reason to come a few days before this important debate with the principle of open data, which we naturally support. We want a full debate on SNCB, which must also include this issue. It is then that we can talk about the modernisation of the SNCB. That is why our group will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u123	Mr. President, the majority worked as usual. It has drawn up a power report in committee so that this resolution, which was not initially a priority for its authors, can be discussed directly in the committee. It was the same this week in relation to the resolution on the Court of Auditors. We read the resolution and frankly, we don't understand. It wasn't done. We have proposed improvements. Even Minister De Croo, beside me, did not understand that we were going so far from this resolution on open data. There has been an attempt at privatisation and no discussion has taken place, no response has been given to the debate that the opposition has tried to initiate. It was the same thing yesterday. This is characteristic of this majority. This is a shame because the SNCB deserves much better than that arrogance or contempt that was read in yesterday's resolution. We will therefore vote against this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u124	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u125	Yes No. [[46]] No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1117/7) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1117/7) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u126	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 137 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (540/10) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (540/10) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? (Mr Willy Demeyer voted as his group did)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u127	This is the result of the secret vote on naturalizations. (1188/2) This is the result of the naturalization vote. (1188/2) Aantal stemmen 130 Number of voters Valid votes 130 Votes valables Perfect majority 66 Absolute majority All naturalisations have achieved the absolute majority. The proposal of naturalisation laws will be voted on shortly. All naturalizations obtained an absolute majority. The vote on the proposed naturalization laws will take place in a moment. The proposal of the Committee on Naturalizations consists of three parts (A, B and C) each containing several articles to be adopted. The Naturalisations Commission's proposal is divided into three parts (A, B and C) each containing several articles to be adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u128	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u129	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u130	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u131	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for naturalisation laws, the articles of which we have just discussed. We will proceed to vote on the proposed naturalization laws that we have just discussed. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u132	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 133 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part A). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part A). It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u133	(Vote/vote 12) Yes 132 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part B). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part B). It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u134	(Voting/vote 13) Yes 133 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part C). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part C). It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u135	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-09-54-plenair-ip062x.u136	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the meetings of the week of 13 July 2015. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the meetings of the week of 13 July 2015. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting on Wednesday, 15 July 2015, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 15 July 2015 at 2.15 p.m.
