ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to come back to a subject that was raised yesterday in committee, for which you have given a number of answers. It is a subject that is of particular interest to you, a subject to which we are very sensitive within the Reform Movement. This is more precisely this profound change that you want to make to our legislation of "labour faitable", in French, or "werkbaar werk" in het Nederlands. A number of objectives are aimed at: increasing the employment rate to 73.2% by 2020; achieving a better balance between work and private life, without increasing working time; improving working conditions with a view to extending career time. There is theory and practice. We are asking ourselves questions as to how this reform can be put into practice and applied in practice in companies. This is the subject of the questions that I would like to ask you today, bearing in mind that you went to the Netherlands in September to see the effects of the reform already under way, but also taking into account the fact that four pilot companies have already subscribed to this project in our country. Minister, what are the criteria that you have chosen, following the above-mentioned visit? What are the positive elements that you have adopted from the reform already under way in our neighbours, but also from the experience of the four Belgian pilot companies? Are the measures taken in the same way as the proposals made by the social partners? What schedule are you planning for this reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief because yesterday we discussed this issue in committee. It is true that the work that can be done is at the centre of my political priorities for the coming months. A round table was held on 17 November. On this occasion, I was informed of many proposals in particular from the social partners. These proposals are in addition to my own proposals, resulting in fifty concrete initiatives. Seven themes need to be defined: the right to work is simpler and safer; innovation in work processes and mobility; a tailor-made approach; commissioned work; well-being and good health at work; the combination of work and family life and workers. On the other hand, it is clear that social consultation is important to discuss fifty initiatives. As you know, we launched the "Customized Work" website. Finally, with regard to the working visit to the Netherlands, which you requested, I should like to inform you that on 27 January we planned a meeting with the Dutch Minister for Employment, Mr Lodewijk Asscher. We will have details of this visit in the first part of January.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u4	Minister, thank you for these answers. They are in line with what the Reform Movement wants and in any case it will support you for all this reform. We will pay particular attention to ensuring quality work for all, especially as regards the right balance between family and working life for women. As far as the enterprise is concerned, a good balance must be struck between the interests of the worker and the collective interests of all workers and of the enterprise, in the sense of the practicality of this reform within the enterprise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u5	Mr President, Minister, for the past few months nuclear power has been a major concern to the people of our country, and that can be understood. How not to be worried when we see the proliferation of incidents in all of our nuclear power plants! We remember Doel 4's sabotage. We remember the fires and explosions at the Tihange site. How can we not be worried when we know that the government is going to allow the revival of forty-year-old old reactors? How can we not be worried when we learn that the government will allow the restart of two nuclear reactors whose tanks are cracked? Minister, since you took up your duties, I have always appreciated your approach to nuclear safety. You have stated that you will always follow the opinion of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency on this matter and I believe that this is a very simple position, but unfortunately, in this case, with regard to the reopening of Tihange 2 and Doel 3, we must express reservations about the opinion of the Agency. Indeed, since these micro-cracks were discovered in the reactors in 2012, there has first been an error by the Agency to allow the restart in 2013. We had to go back a few months later. Then there were new analyses, new tests and, finally, the existence of 15,000 micro-cracks in these two tanks. Minister, can you assure us that all the procedures have been followed by the Agency to deliver this favourable opinion? Have there been sufficient favourable opinions from national and international experts? Can you assure us that the Agency has given this opinion in full independence? Can you assure us that there has been no pressure of any kind from the government or from Electrabel? Finally, Minister, can you reassure the public?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u6	Minister, if I may, I will start by quoting from the interview with Mr. Bens, the Director General of the AFCN: "The last report arrived on Monday night. I slept on it, then I made the decision Tuesday morning." I'm not hiding from you that I was particularly arrested when I read this. We know this is an extremely important issue. We know this is an extremely sensitive case. We know that it is also a matter of the dangerousness of our plants. We know that, in the past, the AFCN has already made a mistake in this matter. But Mr. Bens gets a notice on Monday night, he sleeps on it, and on Tuesday morning, he decides. Do you think that's serious? Minister, why, at a time when, first of all, and we have evidence of this, the Federal Agency followed the advice of the independent expert who was critical, in the end, it did not follow the reserve of this international expert? Why is the piece Areva that was considered representative by the AFCN in 2012 not today? Why such a change in the content of the study itself? Do you confirm that, given the danger, you will require Electrabel to preheat the safe water to 45° Celcius?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Mr Thiébaut, as I have always said, and this is my approach in this case too, the AFCN is made up of experts and their views count for me. In this case, I realize that this does not correspond to what you have heard. In this file, AFCN used the assistance of numerous national and international experts to review the Electrabel file. The decision is taken unanimously within the AFCN. So, yes, I keep my confidence in AFCN and yes, I am in that opinion. Furthermore, in response to Mr Nollet, I have asked for a sub-committee to be set up which will allow you to put all your technical and procedural questions in the presence of Mr Bens. I think for all these details, you can question him.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u8	Minister, thank you. I look forward to hearing the experts' and Mr Bens' explanations of the Agency's decision. I will reaffirm here on behalf of my group that our priority is the safety of citizens, the environment and workers, without any other consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u9	For me, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u10	Minister of the Interior, 13,000 cracks in Doel, 3,000 in Tihange, are these technical details or questions? Taking less than 24 hours to analyze a report from the United States, is that a technical question? Of course, we want to question Mr. Bens, but we want to stress the political responsibility of those who will eventually follow the advice of the Federal Agency. In 2012, the same Mr. Bens told us that he was 101% sure that these plants could restart. A few months later, the government had to close them. Today, we would like to make it appear that the questions that we are asking, which show the inconsistency of the Federal Agency, are of a technical nature. No, they're political! You cannot escape your responsibilities by escaping behind the AFCN.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u11	Mr President, Minister, my question on how to deal with criminal motorcycle gangs is actually a little broader and involves tackling crime in general. There is always a call for an integrated approach, and even now this is a topical issue in which the police and the courts do their thing and where there is a great added value in cooperation with administrative authorities, the provinces but certainly also the municipalities. You yourself are mayor of Brasschaat, so you may know very well how to deal with it. Many mayors are faced with the question of how to deal with this, how to add value to it, how to obtain the necessary information to help in the fight against organized crime, and in this case the motor gangs that focus mainly on the border area, for example by refusing permits and the like. In the Netherlands there is the BIPDO legislation, the law promoting integrity assessments by the public administration. That law allows a public administration to determine which criminal organisation may be behind the application for a permit. In this way, the administrative authorities can intervene. This is the specific subject of the question. Minister, apart from a number of other measures that we need to take, how can we possibly make legislation similar to the Dutch BIPDO law applicable in Belgium, so that administrative authorities can help to deal with criminal gangs?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u12	Mr President, Mr Terwingen, as you know, the coalition agreement stipulates that we want to develop legislation similar to BIPDO legislation. I can tell you that within a few months we will install a RIEC in the provinces of Antwerp and Limburg, a regional information and expertise centre, in accordance with the BIPDO legislation, specifically to deal with these phenomena. The governors, as well as the King's Attorney, the mayors and the chiefs of police in the areas concerned, will be there and there will be an exchange of information. You have not asked the question, but I would like to add something. At the time, you asked me to exchange intensive information and actions of administrative action at the European Forum specifically on criminal motorcycle gangs. I can tell you that an agreement was signed in this area between the Netherlands, Germany and Belgium. You were also served on that occasion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u13	Of course, Minister, I welcome your answer. You address some of our suggestions which were also formulated in our capacity as mayors of the municipalities concerned. I believe they are good initiatives. I did not know anything about agreements or treaties in this area, so I am very curious about the texts. It is, of course, all stuck in passing on information between police areas at national level but also abroad. I am glad to be served on my beck and call with regard to this point. I have made a number of proposals concerning motor gangs and the strengthening of the region where motor gangs are strongly established. If I'm served with those questions, too, I'm totally happy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u14	Order of business Order of business
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u15	Minister Van Overtveldt, I welcome you, but I'm a little surprised you're here because you were apologized for being on the list we got today. On that basis, Mr President, we have tabled our questions. So, Minister, I'm a little surprised you're here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u16	I share your surprise, Mrs Kitir, but at the same time I am much happier with a minister who is there than with a minister who is not there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u17	Mr President, we have submitted our questions on the basis of the list we have received.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u18	Mr President, I agree with you: better a minister who is there than a minister who is not there. However, like Mr Kitir, I would like to draw attention to a serious organisation of Question Time. That includes the apology. Furthermore, it is only two weeks since we had to suspend the sitting because there were no ministers. Once again, you have to chipe with the order and Parliament must be satisfied with the ministers who are there. Once again, you must send a signal that we must be on time so that Question Time can be completed in a proper manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u19	Mr President, I note that yesterday the question about the reduced VAT rate was put to Minister Van Overtveldt in committee. That was a question from Mrs Smaers, to which the Minister replied. Today we have this question again in plenary. There have been examples of this. It must be examined, Mr President, whether questions have already been put in committee, so that they are not put in plenary the following day. Then the committee questions just don't make any sense anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u20	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u21	It is not a criticism of you, Mrs Demir, but I think that this should be better examined.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u22	Mr President, I can only agree with what has just been said by Mr. Van Rompuy. This was the case with the previous question about work that could be done. On the other hand, it seems to me that the level of information is not the same for all parliamentarians. Indeed, some were aware that Minister Van Overtveld would be present and available, while the information given to us was that the minister would be absent. For this reason, we were unable to ask questions within the Minister's jurisdiction. This is a significant problem. I understand the minister thinks it's a good thing to be here. I don't have one for you, minister. Simply put, if the minister is there, all groups need to have that information available so that they can table the questions in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u23	Mr President, I find this rather regrettable. I had a question for the Minister of Finance. As he was on the list of absentees, I thought it made no sense to ask him because the question would be referred to one of his colleagues who would not have all the skills to answer. When was it known that the minister would be present and not absent? This should have been the subject of a communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u24	It is very simple, ladies and gentlemen, it was planned that I would come back from London later, but I managed to catch a train earlier and I took the trouble to come here immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u25	I didn't know the minister would be here. I asked Minister Jambon a minute ago who would answer the question to Minister Van Overtveldt, because I did not know. With regard to the comments made by Mr Van Rompuy and Mrs Fonck, and perhaps others, on the questions in committee, I will ask the services to be very strict about them. I have to admit, I didn't do that because I was here this morning. I'm sure you understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u26	Mr President, there is really a problem with the organisation of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u27	I don't think so, ma'am!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u28	The minister did not learn, five minutes ago, that he was going to take the train four minutes ago, to arrive three minutes ago! Mr. Chairman, we could have been told in the morning that the minister had decided to come back earlier and that he was therefore available to answer, in which case we would have asked questions. In fact, the minister is present, but we have had no information to that effect. We were correct, we did not ask a question for the Minister of Finance because he was supposed not to be there. It is also a correction on the part of Members of Parliament. The organization of work raises questions. This element must be able to be taken into account for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u29	Minister, I would like to thank you for your reply. If you think we're not happy that you're here, you misunderstood us. Mr President, the question was addressed to you, because it was about the organisation of work. I say it again: we also had questions to Minister Van Overtveldt, but since he was not on the list, we made another choice. We based ourselves on the list. We have put a question to the Prime Minister and that question will then be moved to another minister. As part of the procedure, Mr President, I would ask you to inform us as soon as possible who is present or is not present. What's the point of that list?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u30	Mrs Kitir, first of all, as soon as I know that a minister will be there, I will, of course, let you know. However, I have only seen the Minister present at the same time as you. Secondly, and with this remark I would also like to address Mrs Fonck, we must ensure that in the long term we do not create a situation in which a minister who can come to his own surprise decides not to come, so as not to get any too heavy comments. That's the world upside down.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u31	Mr President, my remarks were not addressed to the minister, but to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u32	I answered you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u33	It is not the presence of the minister that is a problem, but the organization of our work, which is your responsibility, Mr President!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u34	Madam, I am quite prepared to take on my responsibilities, but not in this case. I think we're overreacting. That's my feeling. Mrs Pas, I suggest that we let you ask your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask my question. I had seen on the list that the minister was considered absent today. He is, to my great surprise, present himself. However, there are opposition parties who assume that the government is sometimes one and indivisible. Until five minutes before the meeting, the cabinet couldn't tell me who would answer. I assumed that the answer would be passed on to a fellow minister. His presence was therefore a great surprise to me. I'm very grateful he came here himself. Mr. Secretary, that's a good thing for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u36	Mrs. Pas, now ask your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u37	Minister, everyone is contributing to the savings. The government has already affected contractors who renovate homes, already because of the decision to allow the reduced VAT rate of 6% only for homes over ten years old instead of five years old, as is currently the case. A further hidden VAT increase would now be planned. It is reported that in a royal decree due to come, a whole series of works will be excluded from the reduced rate of 6% in the case of renovation. On that list are walls, roofs, terraces, driveways, freestanding garages and carports. Even the conversion of factory buildings and office buildings into apartments would no longer be covered by the 6% scheme. Mr. Secretary, is that correct? I hope not. Indeed, any increase in VAT, including a disguised increase such as this, has a negative impact on construction. The construction sector has not been easy, euphemistically speaking. As many as 13 000 jobs have been lost in construction since 2011. The sector calculates and expects an additional loss of 40 000 jobs until 2019, not because less is being built, but mainly because our construction workers get unfair competition through social dumping. The sector therefore needs positive measures rather than additional VAT increases. That is why I have the following questions. Is that information correct? If so, is it a temporary measure or a permanent one? Can you give me the reasons why the plagued construction sector is being re-treated in this way?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u38	Ms Pas, reporting on possible changes to VAT rates in the construction sector is at least premature at the moment. There has not yet been any discussion of such changes at the Council of Ministers, let alone a decision. However, what I would like to make clear is that, in terms of VAT rules and VAT rates, greater coherence is needed than has been the case so far. Three principles are very important. Firstly, a tax system must provide legal certainty for citizens and businesses. Secondly, administrative training should be aimed at clarifying the legislation for taxable persons. Thirdly, more specifically, the old age requirement for real-estate work to private homes is indeed raised from five to ten years. Given these principles, I believe, as has already been pointed out, that there is a need for greater coherence and clarity in the regulation. Let me give some concrete examples. The construction of a driveway from the front door to the public road is subject to 6% VAT. The construction of a driveway from the front door to the garage in the back of the garden is subject to 21% VAT. If on the invoice is a parking space instead of a driveway construction, there is still 21 % VAT due. The same applies to custom sun protection. If placed on the outside of a house, there is 6 % VAT due, on the inside 21 % VAT. I do not think all this makes any sense, not to say that it is rather absurd to modulate the VAT rate in this way. We will work on this. However, I have already made it clear to you that there has been no discussion, let alone a decision, at the level of the Council of Ministers. In any case, the measures we want to take in order to simplify and ensure coherence are budget-neutral. It is certainly not an operation aimed at increasing VAT revenue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am glad that these are premature reports and that no decision has yet been taken in this respect. I have nothing against the fact that there will finally be coherence, but that coherence should not be an alibi to make all the low rates high. Then I prefer to see coherence in the opposite sense. The construction sector is already experiencing difficulties and benefits more from support measures than from an additional VAT increase. I remember an opinion piece from you in Knack, in which you said that a VAT increase represents more inflation and job losses. The starting point for the government was to take care of jobs, jobs, jobs, right? A VAT increase would be contrary to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u40	Mr. Secretary, Farid le Fou was convicted of murder, violent theft, hostages. He was free for a while in 1999 and 2005. He took that opportunity to take his family hostage. He was transferred to prison countless times due to problematic behavior. The man was released by the judge in 2014 for medical reasons, he had a prison psychosis. So he's a free man, even though he had to serve his sentence until 2026. You may remember that, I was standing here and you were sitting there. We weren't able to explain that at the time, Minister, but that wasn't all. What are we reading in the paper this week? The man wins a lawsuit. He receives no less than 42 000 euros from the Belgian State because he was not treated correctly in prison because he was treated with his prison psychosis. Minister, we must admit that our prisons are not what they should be. Human rights are important and nobody deserves inhuman treatment. Here, however, everything gets to the wrong side of the scale. First of all, there was a reason for his prison sentence. Second, there was a reason for all his transfers. Third, he's been released by now. It has been acknowledged that there was a problem. Instead of compensation, the Court might as well have recognised that there was a problem and could give symbolic compensation, but no, they considered that compensation of EUR 42 000 had to be paid. That is an amount of which a modal citizen who is a good and hard worker can only dream and not be saved quickly. Then there are the facts and the victims. He is now likely to receive higher compensation than his victims will ever have. Moreover, it may not have been done yet, as his lawyer states in the same article that there are still procedures in place and that there could be an additional EUR 80 000. Minister, there must be no misunderstanding about the importance of human rights and a court that protects them, but we must ask ourselves questions about such a case-law. The absolute application of Article 3 of the ECHR undermines the article itself. That raises questions. Can you do something about that? Can you bring that up? Will you do that? Is it true that there are still procedures pending? Will we still have to pay compensation? Then I have one more question about our prison policy. How far do you stand in tackling a better prison policy so that such convictions can be avoided?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u41	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, it is correct that we have been standing here. You will recall that Mr Bamouhammad was released by the Liège judge in autumn 2014, on a unilateral application. I brought into force part of the law on external legal status during Christmas holidays. This had to allow that dispute to be brought before the criminal court. Mr Bamouhammad was re-incarcerated in prison on appeal and was released by the criminal court for medical reasons. However, that is temporary and not final. We were sentenced to moral compensation and compensation of around EUR 42 000 in total. There are three reasons for this. Firstly, too little access for Mr Bamouhammad to justice and too little opportunity to file complaints against the prison regime. Secondly, the fact that he was transferred too much is 43 times over seven years. Thirdly, the fact that he was too often isolated as a disciplinary measure, without taking into account his state of health. The Department of Human Rights at the Ministry of Justice is one of the very best. The fact that we lost that procedure is certainly not due to a bad defence. We will consider appealing to the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights. You know that there must be very good reasons for this, such as the general interest or an important disagreement about an interpretation of a provision of the Treaty. Our lawyers and my administration are investigating this right now. The appeal shall in any event be considered. I cannot tell you whether other similar procedures are currently pending.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u42	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I hope that you will take further steps in this matter, because I believe that you can indeed point out that the interpretation of Article 3 in this case is too absolute, which undermines human rights, so that ordinary people will be deprived of human rights, and that should not be the intention. I understand difficult situations in prison, but the reasons for the transfers are often not so much about prison as about the prisoner himself. A compensation of EUR 42 000 seems to me to be out of proportion. His victims probably got less compensation. This is simply not explained anymore. This is now no longer straight, but crooked straight.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u43	Mr President, Minister, there is a growing sense of insecurity among citizens. We discussed this issue this morning. On the eve of the International Day for the Rights of the Child, I would like to highlight youth as well as a very important element in juvenile delinquency that emerges from a study carried out by the National Institute of Criminalism and Criminalology. This study shows that juvenile delinquency is declining in our country, but also in our European neighbours. It is true that the study deals only with offences and does not take into account facts for which there has been no complaint or follow-up. This study states that the registration of complaints would become selective and that there would be more and more rankings without follow-up. According to this study, citizens would feel that there is no point in filing a complaint. I hope that this is not a major explanation for the decrease in the number of complaints, but a reduction in the number of infringements. Minister, what is your analysis of the figures in this study with regard to the elements I have just mentioned? What can we do to see this trend continue and further decrease the number of offences committed by our youth?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that, for once, our statistics in this regard are good. They show, in fact, that there was a general decrease in the number of cases described as criminal between 2006 and 2013, in all judicial districts, with a sharper decrease from 2011. The same downward trend is actually also observed in our neighbours. It should be noted that a decline in juvenile delinquency is particularly evident in the Brussels-Capital Region, which is a good thing. One may wonder what is the cause of this finding. Finding a decrease in juvenile crime and a non-rejuvenation of delinquency is one thing, but it is still necessary to know the causes. The finding is general. Whether it is the KUL, the VUB, the Kenniscentrum Kinderrechten, the Child Rights Knowledge Centre, the Youth Welfare Agency, all say the same thing. But what is the reason? No in-depth analysis is available at the moment, but the possible avenues of research for our research centres and our National Institute of Criminalism and Criminalology are as follows: population change, aging, change in opportunities that foster delinquent behaviour, change in lifestyle and behaviour, change in police practices. It is not excluded that, through the application of Salduz legislation and compulsory assistance, prevention has become much more important and divestment has become less customary. Perhaps this is, in general, all the effects of prevention programmes developed at Community and regional level. Perhaps the question should also be asked at Community level. But I look forward to this trend and will be even happier when I know the causes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u45	Minister, thank you for that clarification. As you mentioned, prevention is a key element. Factors such as dropping out of school and the socio-economic environment are elements to which we must pay attention – and especially the Ministers of the Communities. I would add that we must pay close attention to this, particularly on the eve of International Day for the Rights of the Child.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u46	Mr President, Minister, the problem of the exchange of information between OCMW officials, police and security services has been a problem for some time now. I am thinking, for example, of social fraud and residential fraud, but also of other cases. Perhaps today, more than ever, it is crucial that an answer is given. In an OCMW, professional secrecy applies and this is important to ensure the relationship between social assistants and their clients. However, the Criminal Code also mentions the duty of an official to report abuses when he comes into contact with them. That is, of course, a discrepancy in the legislation, with which many OCMW are struggling. Most OCMWFs really want to think about the question at what time they have to pass on information and at what point they don't. It now appears that some Brussels OMCW members are refusing this debate. Those are not my words, but those of the Brussels Attorney General Johan Delmull, who said at the beginning of December, following some of the benefits wrongly given to jihad fighters who were in Syria at the time, that some Brussels OCMW members do not exchange information. More importantly, some OCMWFs simply do not respond to the questions of the prosecution. It is difficult to understand that, at the request of the court, a bank is obliged to provide information but that the OCMW escapes from it. Mr Minister, it is not possible for certain, particularly Brussels-based OCMWFs, to refuse to provide any information at any time, even if public security would be compromised, for example, or in the event of clearly identifiable social fraud. In Antwerp, the Labour Auditorate delivered a kind of cooperation protocol to the Antwerp OCMW's in order to address this problem in part. Would it not be appropriate for you to issue general guidelines for all OCMWFs, so that it becomes clear what they should do when, or do you see another practical solution to break the somewhat too tight straitjacket of this confidentiality obligation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u47	Mr President, Mrs van Peel, of course I will not create categories of OMCWFs. First and foremost, we need to look at an important element concerning the information held by the OMCWs: professional secrecy and also the exceptions to professional secrecy. The professional secrecy must be respected by the staff and personnel of the OMCW. The professional secrecy is based on Article 458 of the Criminal Code and is of public policy. In particular, as regards OCMWs, the professional secrecy is enshrined in Article 36 of the Organic Law of 1976 on OCMWs. To date, there is no legal provision requiring an OCMW to reply to a request for information by the Public Prosecutor. However, there are exceptions to this. Firstly, a legal testimony, for example at the request of an investigating judge and/or a court. Secondly, a request from State security; this exception is contained in Article 14 of the Organic Law of 30 November 1998 regulating the intelligence and security services. Thirdly, a request from a social inspector, as provided for in Article 55 of the Social Criminal Code. As I described in my policy paper, this delicate issue of extending information exchange for security reasons is a priority for me. I would like to discuss a number of proposals in the short term with my colleague, the Minister of Justice, and with the OCMW associations. One possible action I would like to discuss with my colleague is an amendment to Article 46c of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u48	I hope, Minister, that you will do so very quickly, because we must not underestimate this problem. I am aware of the legislation, I am the chairman of the OCMW, I know how difficult the debate is and that many OCMW members often struggle with it. I certainly don't want to undermine professional secrecy. However, we are talking about situations, especially in Brussels, just like those OCMWFs who are today refusing to do so, where there may be a suspicion of people leaving for Syria and where the information in this area is not being passed on. People don't even want to talk about it. In addition to clear guidelines for all OCMWFs, I believe that you should be able to intervene with the OCMWFs who clearly refuse to do so if requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u49	Minister, last June, the majority voted to extend two aging plants: Doel 1 and 2. We strongly opposed it. The debates were difficult, heated and very long. We were convinced that these two reactors were not necessary for the security of supply of our country. The majority, including the MR, held the opposite speech saying that they were essential to avoid blackout this winter. The Open Vld and the CD&V, for their part, stated that they agreed with the law on the exit of nuclear power as passed under the government of Elio Di Rupo, but given the uncertainties presented by Doel 3 and Tihange 2, they felt obliged to vote for your text. Today, the uncertainties have dissipated, as these two plants will be reopened. So, there's no security of supply problem anymore. Mr. No One's Opine. We're promised an additional 2,000 megawatts. Our first request, Minister, is for you to close Doel 1 and Doel 2 permanently. It's a historic moment. If you are engaged in the exit of nuclear power, you will have to confirm the rent guaranteed by the previous government. Since 2008, it has amounted to $2.5 billion in the state budget. In addition, this pension has been confirmed by the Constitutional Court. Therefore, there is no legal danger, minister. It's also a time when masks will fall. Either you and your majority are engaged in an energy transition or you are going to lock our country into nuclear power for decades to come. In the latter case, your responsibility will be overwhelming. Minister, do you have any analyses and figures that show that we need Doel 1 and 2 to ensure security of supply during this winter and subsequent years? Are you going to continue to negotiate with Electrabel about the annuity or are you going to confirm it as required by the laws in force?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u50	Mr President, Minister, you are a blue politician, I am a green politician. So I can understand that we differ on the speed with which we want to achieve the full core step. This has to do with a different view of society and arguments that weigh more heavily on me as an ecologist. What I wouldn't understand is that you, as a blue minister, are persevered in anger and want to lay the foundation for one or even two decades of nuclear monopoly, perpetuating the dominance of one player and one technology. This already makes us vulnerable today in terms of security of supply. Today we are starting the core trip. Realising the first part of the 2003 law is pure pragmatism and a matter of common sense. In the meantime, the uncertainty over the crack reactors has disappeared. Our demand is therefore that the life of the oldest nuclear reactors, Objectives 1 and 2, built in 1975, should not be extended by ten years. This is actually a very simple question. Apparently, this government decides to restart the crack reactors. We ask questions about this, but under no circumstances can you make it clear that Objectives 1 and 2 are necessary. Madam Secretary, are you prepared to take the first small step? Are you prepared to refrain from extending the lifespan of those two old nuclear reactors? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u51	Mr President, Minister, our story is getting monotonous. We have repeatedly pointed out in committee that the start-up of the two crack reactors can have a major impact on our decision. In committee, both CD&V and Open Vld have made it clear that there is only an extension of the lifetime of Objectives 1 and 2 because this is absolutely necessary. We have made an analysis of the past year from October 2014 to October 2015. Almost all this time, if we have full nuclear capacity, there has been no room for forms of production other than nuclear, except during peak hours. You know that nuclear production in Belgium cannot be switched off. This means that nuclear production corresponds to 100% of demand. Gas and renewable energy are therefore no longer available on the market at that time, except during peak hours. That's not ideology, that's the numbers. I see you looking. You can check that out. From 10h 00 to 16h 00, nuclear production, which cannot be reduced, is sufficient for full consumption. This means that renewable energy or energy production by gas plants must be carried out or shut down. That means you're de facto creating a monopoly. They said it's because we don't have enough. Today we have enough. My question is quite clear: is the government willing, also taking into account what CD&V and Open Vld say, not to extend Objectives 1 and 2 and therefore put them in the refrigerator?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u52	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my question was initially addressed to the Prime Minister, combining the reopening of power plants with the issue of nuclear safety. Mr Jambon spoke on this subject. As far as we are concerned, we were seeking a hearing from the AFCN. Of course, we do not want a discount on nuclear safety. In relation to what is happening today, I would like to have your confirmation with regard to the decision that has fallen. Can you confirm to me that the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 is no longer necessary to ensure security of supply this winter and for the coming winters? The majority of the votes were CD&V and Open Vld to challenge the June decision on the subject. But I would also like to say that the impact of the AFCN decision on the reopening of Doel 3 and Tihange 2 in the financial negotiations with Electrabel is obvious. It's a complementary element. Electrabel and also EDF, I imagine, since there are EDF shares in a number of plants. It seems to me that now we must no longer touch the financial system since the nuclear rent has been validated three times by the Constitutional Court. It makes it possible to bring a considerable amount of money into the State budget. Would it not be wiser to retain the mechanism of taxation of nuclear rent, which is important for state finances?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u53	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last year the country was in a state of turmoil due to possible power cuts. The mayors were mobilized, the governors were mobilized, switch-off plans were pulled out, there was doubt whether trains would still be running and whether the traffic lights would still work; in short, there would be serious consequences for our country. The government therefore included in its coalition agreement that the life span of Objectives 1 and 2 could be extended. She's taken responsibility for that. Moreover, the government, led by Mr Di Rupo, had also chosen to keep Tihange 1 open for the same reasons, particularly in order to keep the light lit and to ensure security of supply. In the coalition agreement, other conditions are also attached to keeping Objective 1 and Objective 2 open. There is security of supply, as I have just explained, but there is also the security aspect. Mr Jambon has just said that this is a sine qua non to keep a nuclear power plant open for longer and that we will follow the advice of the FANC and international experts, i.e. independent organizations. We can only agree to that. Interconnections with other countries are also an important condition. A fourth condition is to keep the Objective 3 and Tihange 2 plants open, on which a decision has been taken this week. They'll be kept open longer. Madam Secretary, is the new fact that this week came to light having an effect on the negotiations you are conducting on Objective 1 and Objective 2? Does this have an effect on keeping these two plants open or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u54	Minister, do you maintain or abandon your plan to extend the lifespan of Doel 1 and Doel 2 by ten years?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u55	Minister, many things have already been said. To sum up, I could say that Electrabel really touches the jackpot. In the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 reactors there are 18 cm cracks, thousands of cracks, but it's no big deal! We are told that this has no impact on reactor safety. Despite the warning of the international expert, we will therefore reopen these reactors. With regard to Doel 1 and 2, it had been said that it was essential to maintain these reactors, given the risk of shortages. Today, thanks to the CREG, we realize that the risk of shortage had been greatly overstated. So why maintain these reactors? The question deserves to be asked. In your majority, some people are asking for it. Finally, the last element of the Electrabel jackpot: the nuclear rent for which they can benefit from a fairly considerable discount. I can only associate myself with my colleagues' questions about the dual maintenance of reactors, those that are cracked and those that are forty years old. Forty years is really very old for a reactor, as experts say. Furthermore, can you tell us whether, in your opinion, the risk of the shortage mentioned was exaggerated or not? Who governs energy policy in this country? The government or Electrabel?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will answer your questions. I will begin with Mr Wilrycx's speech in which he recalls the elements of the government agreement. Of course, I fully agree with you that questions must be asked in the light of the elements that had been introduced into the government agreement in order to assess the decision to extend Doel 1 and Doel 2. Today, Doel 3 and Tihange 2 have resumed or are going, within a few days, to resume service in electricity production because AFCN, in terms of nuclear safety, has given the green light. You will examine this in committee in relation to the conditions that have been issued and to the review made by AFCN of the possible restart of these plants, which, I would remind you, have not yet reached the age of forty. So there is a new element in the electricity generation landscape and you know that the government's first concern has always been security of supply. From the moment this security of supply exists because we have taken our responsibilities to maintain it and to ensure that it is strong this winter, the occurrence of Doel 3 and Tihange 2 strengthens us on this element. But we must also measure all that we need to do in terms of energy transition in the medium and long term, and therefore, as Mr Wilrycx has said, review the other elements: the entire production stock, all the shutdowns of power stations which must take place in the years to come, and also the possibilities of interconnection with the countries around us. You know that we are interconnected with France, the Netherlands and Germany, but we need to assess these capacities in order to properly judge our production and import portfolio and ensure that security of supply is ensured. It is not only because Doel 3 and Tihange 2 return to the circuit that this issue is resolved. It is a question that arises, to which it will be answered not by me alone, of course, but by the government, after assessing all the parameters that I have just mentioned to you. Mrs Lalieux, you're referring to numbers. In the context of this review, there is obviously a series of figures that also need to be examined and deepened. As far as the strategic reserve is concerned, you know very well that it is influenced by these technical examinations which you call for and which we will undertake. Nor is this strategic reserve intended to replace the market. From the moment power plants enter the market, the calculations are done differently and what we need to do is to do these calculations. The timing of the negotiations continues within the framework of the law passed in June 2015 in a very serious and constructive manner and to which we comply. Mr Nollet, last week I did not have the opportunity to answer a question you asked. I can tell you today that we sent a text to the Council of State asking for its consideration within five days. This text has come back and we are continuing to enrich it at the beginning of the remarks made by the Council of State. We are therefore moving forward in the legislative process as planned following the June 2015 Act. This is the text on the fee. Here's the information I can give today. I assure you that the government takes these questions and your questions very seriously, that it complies with the government agreement and that it examines the various parameters cited. We are therefore very actively pursuing the work on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u57	Madam Minister, thank you. I can't help but tell you that, like another minister, you are drowning the fish! The security of supply for this winter and next winter has been calculated by Elia, by CREG, by your Energy DG without Doel 3 and Tihange 2 and without Doel 1 and Doel 2, with a huge and overvalued strategic reserve that has been working since November 1 and that all consumers have been paying since November 1! We have enough to fill six winters in one winter! It is no longer a question of analysis, minister, but of telling us today that we will not prolong and that we will not reopen Doel 1 and Doel 2. The MR was in the former government and this pension is confirmed by the Constitutional Council. It has already raised $2.5 billion to the state. You drastically reduce this budget for the state! Stop negotiating, leave everything as it is! Let's vote on the law on the release of nuclear power, let's not prolong Doel 1 and Doel 2 and stop negotiating the rent! We need a decision-making process that commits us to the energy transition! Any other decision locks us in nuclear power, with all its risks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u58	We are faced with an important fact. The Minister announced that, as far as she was concerned, facts and figures could and will be examined whether the life span of Objectives 1 and 2 would indeed be extended. So the door's ajar. The lifetime extension is not a fulfilled fact yet, hurrah! I am really looking at the colleagues from Open Vld and CD&V to break open the door that is now ajar and not to let the minister strike them again in her nuclear madness and love for nuclear energy. I will conclude, fellow Members. There is not one report that can still show that Objective 1 and Objective 2 are needed. There is no good reason to continue the nuclear monopoly and addiction. Please, ladies and gentlemen, have the courage of your conviction and realize the first step of the law on the core exit. We shall, of course, come back to this in committee. We are not just going to let the debate go. We want the hard figures on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u59	Madam Minister, I would like to be as optimistic as Mr Calvo, but because of age I am probably not that easy anymore. I've actually heard you say, Madam Secretary, that you're just moving on. That is a pity for you, Mr Calvo, and for you, members of Open Vld and CD&V, but as I understand it, you are in trouble. I listened very carefully. I've been here long enough to know when people are going around the pot not to offend their coalition partners, I realize that. That's what the minister did here. She says she is continuing, but she doesn't want to say that too clearly, so that CD&V and Open Vld are not disturbed too much. That's what happened. People refer to Elijah's report all the time. The least one could have done now is ask Elijah what the situation is. That wasn't said. The minister says the government will decide for itself. I therefore ask that the committee be convened and that Elia give us a new report on the state of security of supply after the reopening of the two plants. Only then will we objectively, from a body outside Parliament and the government, know where we stand. Madam Secretary, you also mentioned interconnections. You are well aware that there will be fewer interconnections if the life span of Objectives 1 and 2 is extended. The result of the extension decision will be that the electricity price in Belgium will be higher than elsewhere. The previous government, Mr Wilrycx, together with the Liberals, managed to reduce the wholesale price by organising competition. Now it's going up again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u60	Mr President, Madam Minister, you did not confirm, when you could have done so, the closure of Doel 1 and Doel 2. Remember, security of supply is now guaranteed. This has been demonstrated by the figures. This is a shame because the investors who will arrive need a stable framework to invest for the future, which they will not have since they are still in the dark. With respect to financial negotiation, the minister, you have sent a bill to the Council of State and you expect to make it. My fear is that you are so advanced with Electrabel, that you are tied feet and fists and that, therefore, you can no longer back down and decide, above all, to maintain the nuclear rent which is an essential income for the State. Minister, we have lost a lot of time with the previous bill on Doel 1 and Doel 2, as much unnecessary time as we could have spent on other much more interesting projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u61	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I would like to say to Mr Vande Lanotte that he did not quote us correctly from the committee meetings. We have never said anything about linking up the power stations concerned. About the interconnections with the Netherlands he says they reduce by keeping Objective 1 and 2 open. It concerns the so-called slope Woitrin. Now, both Elijah and the Minister have repeatedly rejected this. Madam Minister, as far as your answer is concerned, it is essential for us to follow the government agreement. Security is primordial, followed by security of supply. We will certainly support your various measures to ensure security of supply and prevent blackouts. You also spoke about the total production park. The climate summit is on its way. In terms of the energy mix, it will also be important to take into account CO2 emissions. The greening of energy becomes a very important item in the following weeks, months and years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u62	Mr. Chairman, I have the impression that many journalists are going to ask for the official record of our sitting very quickly and that everyone is going to look closely at what the minister has said. As far as I am concerned and for taking notes on the flight, I consider, Madam Minister, that you finally agree to reverse. You haven't returned to square one yet. You haven't said yet that you're completely abandoning your Doel 1 and Doel 2 project, but finally, you admit that there's something to rest about! Yes, there is a new element! The advantage is that the answer to the question you are asking yourself is known. With Doel 3 and Tihange 2, we recover 2,000 megawatts. It is thanks to the figures that you yourself presented in committee and that the CREG itself presented in committee, that the answer is known. Dear friends, it is now up to you, colleagues from Open Vld and CD&V, who at times dared to point out some points of divergence with the minister, that it is now up to you to show that what you have said will hold the road and that you will keep your promise not to follow all the leads proposed by the minister, particularly with regard to the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2. It is you that we will observe and it is at your home that the ball for the definitive answer is found after this start of reverse.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u63	Mr President, Madam Minister, your answer is so clear that, on the part of colleagues who have spoken before me, there is an interpretation and on the contrary, which is quite surprising. In any case, this has the merit of pointing out the lack of clarity of your response and the lightness of this government with regard to nuclear risk and the problems posed by nuclear power. I would like to remind you of the list of incidents that have occurred in recent months. Indeed, they must weigh if you have to make a decision. An incident occurred on 2 July, 14 July, 25 July, 29 July, 13 August, 8 September, 31 October. Any responsible actor would not even ask himself any more questions and would decide to stop nuclear power immediately. But we know that Electrabel favours the culture of profit rather than security. And unfortunately I have the feeling that the government is following this trend somewhat.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u64	Mr President, Madam Minister, my question is about the climate agreement, but I am also interested in the state of affairs of the European Union, which was relayed today by the press. I see that the minister is falling a little bit apart, so I will explain what this is all about. De Tij refers to a report that identifies Belgium in the field of energy. The European Union stresses first of all the high prices for gas and electricity. Secondly, it calls into question our results in terms of energy efficiency. Then, it points to the poor development of renewable energies before pinning our low performance in reducing CO2 emissions. In relation to this issue, it points to the problems in transport policy, as evidenced by the privileged position of the car – especially corporate cars – at the expense of public transport. It is not the drastic savings decided by the government in the allocation of SNCB that will fix the situation. Finally, it points to the lack of agreement between the Regions and the Federal Government on the objectives to be achieved by Belgium. This is a serious problem. You have already been questioned about this, but you have not brought new information. How do you respond to the European Union that is pinning our country on these different issues? What is the status of the agreement between the Regions and the federal government? Finally, will you dare go to Paris in the absence of such an agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u65	Mr President, Madam Minister, how many ministers in Paris in just over eight days and with what specific commitments? Admittedly, we are probably one of the last states in the European Union to be ready for this conference, if not the last. We're not even ready. Minister, my questions are specific. Are the objectives set out in what you have successively described as an agreement and pre-agreement between the federal state and federated entities confirmed? The 15 % reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, the 13 % increase in renewable energy production in 2020, the distribution of revenues auctioning CO2 allowances, the promised 50 million funding for aid to developing or less developed countries in their fight against global warming: do you confirm these objectives? What is the status of the distribution of these efforts between the Regions and the federal government today? Specifically, today, you can at least make commitments to the federal government, including the federal contribution to renewable energy production. What percentage are you precisely prepared to assume in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, I may not have to convince you of the importance of the Paris conference, at least that is what I hope. Everyone now knows that global warming is a problem. We were able to read an open letter in the press today from just over 300 scientists who once again demonstrated this problem. They highlight the importance of the problem, but also the importance of the Paris Climate Conference. After all, it will be at that conference that we must decide how we are going to deal with it and how we are going to deal with it together. Madam Minister, in view of this, it is a shame that we, the only country in Europe, still have no agreement and no plan to go to Paris. My questions are therefore very simple. How are the negotiations going? Fourteen days ago, we asked the Prime Minister how far they stood. He replied that the matter would be renegotiated immediately. Where are we on the negotiations? Will you be able to go to the conference in Paris with a Belgian plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u67	Madam Minister, we are 11 days away from the Paris Conference. What commitments can you make? What is your work schedule?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to give a comprehensive answer to your questions, I would like to say, as Mrs Temmerman has pointed out, that we are taking this issue very seriously and are continuing the negotiations which have not been concluded at eleven days before the Paris Conference. Yes, of course we have the objectives in mind. We need to find the best distribution of effort to achieve these goals: 15% in terms of greenhouse gas reductions; 13% in terms of increases in renewables by 2020; allocation of the auction proceeds of the ETS (Emissions Trading Scheme) that are in a BNB account and account for these efforts in ringing and staggering currency until 2015; distribution among us of the effort to be made this year again to make a contribution to international financing for developing countries. This negotiation consists in sharing these efforts between us, on a ground where there are four Executives – the Flemish Region, the Walloon Region, the Brussels-Capital Region and the Federal. These executives together produce efforts in relation to final energy consumption, which we estimate by 2020, which concern renewables, greenhouse gases and the distribution of these ETS products. This fraction, for the federal government, which is a little more circumscribed than for the Regions, since it is the offshore in the North Sea and its development by 2020, is easy to calculate if we agree on the final energy consumption figure, the denominator. All these negotiations are highly costed and demonstrate that we are continuing the work. We want to reach an agreement between us as soon as possible, in the days that separate us from COP21. You say that Belgium is pointed as the bad student in the class. I didn't read that article. On the other hand, I have read the letter sent by all the scientists who gathered at the beginning of the KUL to warn us and to ask for a strong political impetus in order to take a binding decision in Paris in the fight against global warming. Through this discussion, we continue the effort on energy efficiency. You know that we have transposed a European directive at federal level, for federal powers, on energy efficiency. The regions are also doing their job because they are making efforts to increase energy efficiency in their territory, the Brussels-Capital Region more than the others because it has very little development in renewable energies. We therefore continue these efforts. The ranking certainly does not place us in the last students of the class. I am convinced that this would probably be exaggerated, but I understand that, politically, we want to say so that there is a surge and that we are actually making the necessary efforts to fight effectively in Belgium against global warming by 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u69	Madam Minister, thank you for this apparent goodwill, but unfortunately it is not very convincing. The discussion we have just had on nuclear power shows that we have problems to worry about. I note that on the issue of greenhouse gas emissions alone, the IPCC says that we should achieve less than 40 per cent by 2020. Belgium comes with a reduction of just 15%. And even for this 15% target and others, there is no agreement between the federal and the regions, especially visibly on issues of revenue distribution from CO2 emissions. It is lamentable on the part of Belgium to be reduced to that. This shows how little the government considers climate and energy transition issues. I have the impression that we are becoming the shame of Europe in this area and perhaps in others as well...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u70	Minister, thank you for reminding me of how one of the four fundamental arithmetical operations was carried out, namely division. That's the problem! Maybe it's time to move on to multiplication.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u71	Madam Secretary, I'm afraid you've only read half of the scientists' letter. It clearly calls on politicians to be ambitious, to be ambitious today. It is incredible to look into Community discussions now, given the problem that is coming to us! You can explain what you want, Madam Secretary, to me it is clear that you do not have an agreement 11 days before the conference. I'm sorry, but you're gonna have to go to Paris with the buttocks naked.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u72	Mr President, Madam Minister, you say you are not aware of the bad Belgian bulletin. I'll give it to you. Unfortunately, you did not get to know it, but Europe sent it about three weeks ago. Of the three objectives it assesses (greenhouse gases, renewable energy and energy efficiency), Belgium received two red cards. As far as greenhouse gases are concerned, Europe says, we will not achieve the targets set. Belgium is, together with Ireland and Austria, one of the only three countries among the twenty-eight that will not achieve its objectives. Red card for Belgium. Second red card on energy efficiency. We will not achieve the promised reduction. We will not achieve our commitments if we continue to maintain a constant policy. Belgium is the only country to have these two red cards. As for the last objective, we can be satisfied with the fact that we will reach 13%, but with this result we are antepenultimate, the penultimate of twenty-eight countries. It is really not a pride that should be protected here in Parliament when it is your ambition to defend the climate, as you should have.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u73	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, you must imagine that a vanguard of Belgian soldiers, technicians and the new leader of the expedition will go to the Belgian base Princess Elisabeth on the South Pole. They're all set to start a new expedition. They're ready to receive a new group of scientists. But what do they find there? According to the reports, they are in a state of havoc. Vehicles have disappeared, 700 gallons of diesel have gone missing, motor oil has gone missing, communication equipment has gone missing. The notice refers to the person of Alain Hubert who would have entered there a few days earlier, against a prohibition of justice. One would even have covered up the cameras to cover this up. Madam Secretary of State, these are like scenes from a Bond movie or Ocean picnic Eleven. In any case, it is scenes that are unworthy of our Belgian scientific research on the South Pole base. This is a place where international researchers come together to do climate research and to do research on microbiology. How do you estimate the situation? What's your reaction to this? What are the current current legal procedures? Is this going to compromise the investigation mission? How will we cope with the problems with the equipment?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u74	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I can only endorse what Mr Claerhout said. However, we are talking about 7 000 litres of diesel, not 700 litres. Apparently, the intention was only to destroy. Mrs Claerhout also refers to James Bond. In fact, that is what it is all about. The person concerned wanted to make it clear that he was there and that we can't touch him. Hubert's behaviour is in fact unacceptable. I do not think we can tolerate such impunity. It remains essential that the scientific mission can continue in 2015 and 2016. Firstly, what are the consequences for the scientific mission at the South Pole? What steps will the Secretary of State take in the area of criminal prosecution and to ensure the continuity of the mission? Secondly, equally important, what is the legal status of the polar base as Belgian territory? What's the impact on this file?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what happened the night before yesterday is defiant. We were informed of this very quickly and clearly and acted immediately. As you know, Mr Hubert has absolutely no access following a judgment of the Brussels Court of First Instance. He doesn't have access, he can't use material, and he can't control control systems. He's clearly recognizable on the footage, so we know who did it. We immediately filed an urgent petition with the court. Today the verdict followed and a penalty payment of EUR 150,000 per offense per person was imposed. Everything that is happening there is contrary to the rule of law. This is how we try to secure the base. As far as our scientists are concerned, security is paramount. We have clearly communicated this to the leadership, Mrs Montanari. She has assured us that safety is there. Despite the fact that material has disappeared, including 7 000 litres, there is still enough to get through in the coming weeks. That was guaranteed to us. At the moment when this is no longer the case, we will indeed have to stop the expedition, but at the moment it is not. The safety of our scientists and soldiers is guaranteed. However, the event is not good for our image. You should know that Mr Hubert was no longer wanted by several countries. As the safety of our scientific researchers is important and we want to continue the mission, we will therefore exhaust all possible legal proceedings to implement the ban and consider how we can work with different countries in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u76	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply and for your swift and clear action. The first year has not always been easy and I am glad that you are taking a firm approach to this situation. These are difficult elements that you have inherited from the past. I would like to ask you to address these problems and the unrest in science policy that still exists in many institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u77	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the answer. Of course, we will continue to follow up on this dossier, and we will, in fact, strive to ensure that the scientific mission can continue. As far as possible criminal law is concerned, we cannot accept impunity, not here, not to the North Pole and the Gerlache, nor to the South Pole.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u78	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to take stock with you of this imam that you wished to expel. You ordered his deportation on July 15th. He had been ordered to leave the territory within 30 days, but this imam still circulates freely today in our territory. We know there was an appeal. Is he suspensive? Why is this imam not being detained? The Aliens Act provides that where there is a serious threat to the security of the territory, as is the case today, detention measures are quite possible. Would it not have been useful to pursue this self-proclaimed imam, for it has no training under the Terrorism Act? Articles 140bis and 140ter could be invoked as it stands, as it refers to calls for jihad, calls for terrorism and recruitment. Because of him, young people went to Syria. Reference could also be made to article 268 of the Criminal Code, which specifically refers to ministers of worship who question the authority of the State, the government or the law. Shouldn't this self-proclaimed imam be criminalized under these laws? Finally, you announced four additional evictions. Have they taken place?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u79	Mr Dallemagne, this Imam de Dison has been residing in Belgium since 2006. He has been known for several years for his preaching of a radical Salafist Islam. We note that the previous governments have done nothing against it. This government assumes its responsibilities and withdraws its right of residence, although it is a European citizen. He is a Dutch national. The Office of Foreigners is in the process of concreting the file, both administratively and legally. On 7 December this year, this dossier will again be submitted to the Aliens Advisory Commission in order to add new elements and consolidate it in anticipation of new appeals procedures. As Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, I am making every effort to ensure that all necessary measures are taken in the context of the fight against radicalism and terrorism. Hate preachers have no place in Belgium and will be sent back to their country of origin. Having said that, my colleague, I would remind you that the Terrorism Act is the responsibility of my colleague from the Justice Department. Furthermore, as you said, four other people are being questioned. We are acting, but we have to give ourselves some time. From a legal point of view, this is not easy because it is a matter of European citizens. You mentioned the possibility of placing them in a closed centre, which seems very interesting to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u80	Mr Secretary of State, you announced four months ago that four new evictions would be carried out, which has not yet been done. As far as detention is concerned, you are talking about a trail, but this possibility has not yet been considered. You also refer to the Minister of Justice. It is time, in my view, for European countries or others to stop handing over these potentially dangerous people. The person in question resides in Belgium because his presence is no longer tolerated in the Netherlands. And today we are going to send him back to another country where he will continue his hate speech and where he will continue to spread his poison. In my view, it would be preferable to incriminate him under the Terrorism Act. However, I have been interested in radical Islam and some preachers for a long time. In March 2013, when I had indicated the danger of some mosques, the MR group leader – he is not here today, but he will recognize himself – replied: "Progressing that Brussels mosques play a role in recruitment is a fantasy."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u81	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u82	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 1252: Peter Luykx, Rita Bellens, Sarah Claerhout, Georges Dallemagne, Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Kattrin Jadin, Richard Miller, Alain Top, Vincent Van Quickenborne, Wouter De Vriendt - 256: Georges Dallemagne, Vincent Van Quickenborne - 740: Georges Dallemagne, Peter Luykx, Brecht Vermeulen, Tim Vandenput I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these three motions for resolutions. I propose that you devote one discussion to these three motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u83	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1252/4) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1252/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u84	Mr President, I refer to the written report. I will speak later on behalf of the MR Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u85	Mr President, I also refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a resolution on relations between Belgium and Taiwan. The present text underlines the economic added value of the good relations between the two countries and stresses the recognition of the government's efforts in democratisation and reconciliation with Beijing. We in Parliament have already had a good tradition of proposals of resolution which have been discussed and approved. In 2012, we adopted another resolution by a broad majority. Belgium has maintained good relations since 1971 and also has a representation in Taipei, and vice versa. I am sure that this resolution will receive broad support from the majority and opposition, as in the Committee on External Relations. I hope to be able to convince you here in the hemisphere to support this resolution. What does this resolution demand? From a broad consensus, the many authors are launching a fourfold request to the government, which I can describe with three key words: pacification, economic interests and international involvement. Let me briefly explain these aspects. The way this resolution has gone is long and many long speeches have been made. However, I will try to give a brief picture of the situation today. With the increasing tensions surrounding the territorial interests and the distribution of natural resources in the Chinese Sea, the international community has more than ever benefited from the peaceful development and demilitarisation of that region. In recent years, the Taiwanese Government has launched many valuable initiatives aimed at de-escalation and cooperation. That happened with results on the ground. What is even more important is that relations with the government in Beijing have undergone a certain degree of detente. Leaders of both camps have taken several steps in a reconciliation process that has been dragging on for over sixty years. Remember, less than two weeks ago, the two leaders of the countries shook hands. The presidents Ma and Xi have met. I found an article here from early 2014 by Stefan Blommaert. That decision: "It is to wait and see what the next step will be in the rapprochement between China and Taiwan. For a long time there has been speculation about a meeting between Chinese President Xi and his Taiwanese colleague Ma. That they would meet seems unlikely. A meeting will certainly not come soon. Well, she's dead. It means another step forward. What is the position in our resolution? We call in our resolution for the government to support not only the policy of peaceful dialogue between China and Taiwan but also throughout the region. First point of pacification. A second issue that this resolution raises is the development of economic contacts between the European Union and Taiwan and, of course, in a derived form, the importance for Belgium. For our economy, Taiwan was actually an explosive growth market until 2011, with outliers, among other things, in the pharmaceutical and petrochemical industries that are important to us. Today, in the current economic climate, we have every interest in giving this partnership a new impetus. There are currently negotiations on an investment agreement between the Union and Taipei. With this resolution, we wish to encourage the government to give its full support. The second key point of this resolution. Finally, as mentioned earlier, we, the authors, have great respect for the development of the democratic process in Taiwan. Many colleagues have visited Taiwan. It is an example of democracy and enterprise, which should serve as an example in this region. However, due to the contestable international status of the island, Taiwan's voice is not heard enough on the international, global stage. That is why the third issue in this resolution. We ask the government to also support all initiatives that increase Taiwan's international involvement as an autonomous region, without conflicting with the Chinese government in Beijing or rejecting the One China Principle. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention. I am counting on your support in the vote on this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u87	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the text before us today by several of our colleagues has been an opportunity to hold an interesting debate on our partner, Taiwan. More broadly, we have had the opportunity to discuss the regional situation. It is a region essential for international relations and which, de facto, must have the place it deserves in our diplomacy and in our parliamentary work. Under the previous legislature, the House had adopted a resolution on relations between Belgium and Taiwan. My group had co-signed this text through my late colleague Patrick Moriau and we supported it in plenary. He then had three specific requests. The first was to take any useful initiative in consultation with the Member States of the European Union, with a view to encouraging China and Taiwan to continue their dialogue and to expand their exchanges with a view to a peaceful resolution of all their differences. The second point was to reaffirm its support for Taiwan's meaningful participation in international organisations, including the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and its mechanisms (UNFCCC), as well as the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) as an observer. The third point was to express its support for wider economic cooperation between the European Union and Taiwan, in particular through the conclusion of an economic cooperation agreement. For my group, this is our position on this issue, which remains inviolable, neither more nor less. Of course, the PS Group supports the establishment of a climate of trust between China and Taiwan, as well as Taiwan's participation in certain international organisations. We have always said so, and that does not change at all. Of course, we believe that it is up to our country and the European Union to encourage initiatives to continue constructive dialogue between China and Taiwan. Only respect for international law by all parties and therefore recourse to the United Nations can bring about a neutral and acceptable solution for all in the high-voltage conflict in the China Sea. However, we cannot use the regional pretext, however tense it may be, or arguments of international diplomacy laudable for us, to sell ourselves in catmini a free trade agreement of the type TTIP or CETA which my group rejects in the present state or, as is the case here, a bilateral investment protection agreement. This would be called double standards, whereas no later than 12 November last, from this rostrum, my colleague, Gwenaëlle Grovonius, explained in detail all the reasons why our group was going to vote against the bill approving the agreement between the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union and Panama on the encouragement and mutual protection of investments. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read to you the new request 3, as presented today in the text submitted by the various authors: "It is a question of studying the relevant diplomatic initiatives which could be taken vis-à-vis the Member States of the European Union and the European Commission in order to promote: (a) the opening of negotiations for the conclusion of a bilateral agreement between the European Union and Taiwan on the encouragement and mutual protection of investment; (b) in the longer term, an economic cooperation agreement." Therefore, as in committee, I have asked myself at length. How to understand this request 3 of this text, while we are constantly concerned about the potential consequences of TTIP, CETA, TISA, etc. The Commission is simply calling for initiatives to conclude a bilateral agreement between the European Union and Taiwan on the encouragement and mutual protection of investment. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, it is these famous international texts that include an ISDS that undermines the ability of states to legislate and does not guarantee binding clauses on social and environmental standards. A whole program! This third request is really unacceptable to our group. I also wonder how it is possible that our colleague, Wouter De Vriendt, who is a member of Groen, has co-signed a text that includes such an approach, in contradiction with the brilliant intervention of our colleague, Benoît Hellings, in committee. In committee, when voting article by article, my group has therefore voted positively on each of the operative points of this text, except those relating to these international treaties. For all these reasons, my group will abstain from this text, since in plenary there is only one vote on the whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u88	One of the first questions I asked as a senator was this subject. Back to the future. Ladies and gentlemen, this motion for a resolution is part of a long tradition of resolutions that we have adopted here in the Chamber. The main purpose of these resolutions was always to support a friendly democracy, as Taiwan is one. The situation is complex. Taiwan is not currently recognised either by China or internationally. Nor do we have official diplomatic relations with Taiwan. That is why it is all the more important that we take on the role of parliamentary diplomacy and that we can have a dialogue with the people of Taiwan, no matter what we do. As the main proposer has said, it is by no means the intention to disrupt the fragile balance between China and Taiwan, which exists today. The text itself is moderate and cautious. We do not want to polarise, but we want to support the ongoing initiatives that can strengthen peace between the parties. The dialogue must take precedence over an arms race. The signs of rapprochement and dialogue are positive, ladies and gentlemen. There is a strong increase in the movement of persons and goods between the two countries. For example, there are approximately 800 passenger flights every week between the two countries. Taiwan receives around 3 million Chinese visitors and holidaymakers each year. Under the current Taiwanese government, trade with China has doubled. Many Chinese companies opened their doors in Taiwan. The so-called Trade Policy Paper of the European Commission of 14 October states that the Commission will take exploratory steps for investment negotiations with Hong Kong and Taiwan. The cherry on the cake was of course the meeting, early this month and for the first time since the communist revolution in 1949, between the Chinese president, Xi Jinping, and his Taiwanese counterpart, Ma. The purpose of the resolution is threefold. Firstly, we want to continue to support dialogue between the two countries, to encourage rapprochement and to avoid a military outcome. Secondly, in line with the resolution adopted in the European Parliament on 9 October 2013, we call for relevant diplomatic initiatives to be examined which could eventually lead to the further development of EU-T Taiwan economic relations. I have just referred to the so-called Trade Policy Paper, which opens the door to such negotiations. Finally, this is, of course, very topical in view of the extremely important climate conference, which is due to start next week in Paris, with the Taiwan resolution, we want to continue to support a significant participation in the conference and in a number of other organizations included in the resolution. With the resolution, our country can continue the Belgian tradition of building international bridges in a serene manner. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of my speech I referred to the tradition of adopting such resolutions on majority and opposition. I hope to be able to confirm that today, but I am not sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall speak from my bench because I will be brief. I am pleased that we agree with a large majority on this text. At the beginning of the year, I had deposited with Mr. Van Quickenborne a motion for a resolution which was very close to it. I am also pleased that we have very close relations with Taiwan. First of all, it is a democratic country. Evidence is given that we can be a Chinese and democratic state. Moreover, it is a very important trading partner for us and could be even more so. Indeed, Taiwan has colossal sovereign funds. It would therefore be wise for him to invest in our country and vice versa, with respect for social and environmental standards. I agree with Mr Crusnière in this regard. It is also a country that is peacemaker in the region and is taking initiatives to resolve conflicts and tensions in the China Sea. I believe that it should be supported in this area. Finally, Taiwan is unfortunately excluded from the international community, but also has strong parliamentary diplomatic relations. That is why parliaments, which are the privileged diplomatic channel, must play a leading role with Taiwan. It is important to regularly update (every 3 or 4 years) our proposals in this regard. In addition, it would be very useful for this country to be able to participate in climate conferences, because it emits carbon just like we do. It could make further efforts within the framework of the provisions of the Paris Conference. I find it regrettable that he cannot participate. The same applies to international civil aviation, as Taiwan is a notable platform. I am thinking in particular of international security. That is why I believe that this country should become a member of the ad hoc international organisations. I am therefore pleased that we are adopting this motion for a resolution on Taiwan, which is a friendly country close to Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u90	Mr President, as has already been said, there are many resolutions in this sense, for which there is always a unanimous majority, but in our house there is a bad habit of not wanting to know us in the drawing up and tabling of such resolutions. That does not alter the fact that we will be supporting this text. There is a lot of things in it that cannot be opposed at all; it even goes in the right direction. There's nothing anyone can do about a dialogue between Taiwan and China. Colleagues have already said here that it is a cautious and moderate proposal for a resolution. I'd say she might be a little too weak. I think that China's shadow is a little too great, and the fear of knocking China over the head is considering it in the global text. We are certainly in favour of going further on the substance. On the basis of the right of self-determination of peoples, we believe that Taiwan has the right to a full recognition as an independent nation in the international community. We have already tabled a motion for a resolution which goes beyond the present proposal. I believe that the resolution is an important first step and I hope that the dialogue and approval of China, which is so emphasised, will not, in the end, be implicitly contrary to the demand for independence of the state of Taiwan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u91	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u92	The vote on the proposal will take place later. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u93	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Sonja Becq, Raf Terwingen, Sophie De Wit, Philippe Goffin, Carina Van Cauter
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u94	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u95	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u96	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u97	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1387/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1387/1) The bill has 15 articles. The bill has 15 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u98	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u99	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Franky Demon, Jef Van den Bergh, Daphné Dumery, Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Gilles Foret, Jean-Jacques Flahaux
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u100	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u101	Mr President, I would like to refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u102	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u103	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (803/1+5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (803/1+5) The bill has 6 articles. The bill has 6 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u104	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u105	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Gabriels, whom I assume she refers to in writing. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u106	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1330/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1330.3) The draft law has 13 articles. The bill has 13 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u107	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u108	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u109	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u110	Mr President, this bill allows the social partners to carry out their opinion. We will vote positively. I would like to ask the government about the content and procedure of the royal decree. This is an essential element for the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u111	Mr President, I understand that it may be a game to ask the Government's answer now. I have to tell you, I don't have the answer right away. Perhaps you could ask the competent minister to come?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u112	The minister was asked to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u113	It is, of course, easy to ask the Government's answer now. The Foreign Minister has briefed us on Taiwan, and I can answer any questions in this regard. However, I cannot be expected to give an answer to everything. One must remain a little serious. I'm working on the asylum crisis day and night. Today I'm on watch and I have to sit here. One can play games, but it is better to ask the Minister responsible to answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u114	Mr. Chairman, I have no problem with whether the government determines a particular minister to be represented. I then consider that the minister representing the government is able to answer the questions and knows enough about the matter to do so. Mr President, I think that as such, you could recognise the correction of the opposition. I won't go any further. In any event, I note that the minister present is not in a position to answer the questions. My question raises a major issue for sectors. This royal decree, which was pending, depends on the viability of the prevention services sector. However, this sector has raised significant concerns. A second reality in this case is that schools will see their rates more than double for these services. However, it is essential to be extremely vigilant to ensure the sustainability of the prevention services sector and to be careful that all schools, wherever they may be, in the north or south of the country, do not find themselves with too much additional financial burden because, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, schools do not roll on gold. Beyond the fact that the government is represented but does not assume the competence of matters, Mr. Secretary of State, it seems to me particularly important that this matter be referred to the government and the minister concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u115	Mr President, I understand very well that it is a pleasure to ask my opinion on the miniature tourist tow. I am here on behalf of the government, but I have not read the 17 drafts and I have not studied them. We are in crisis time, both because of migration and because of terrorist attacks. I've been asked to be on watch. That's not new. When you were Minister with other people in the room, you played that role. This week I'm here to defend the business. If you have any questions, please call the Minister responsible. You can ask. A Member of Parliament may require the Minister responsible for the subject to come to the Chamber. If you ask, the Minister will come here and give you perfect answers in terms of content. Now a game is being played on the government's position, but, frankly, I believe that there are other priorities among the population at the moment. Of course, you can always ask the Minister responsible to come and answer your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u116	We did that, Mr Francken. The minister's on his way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u117	Mrs Fonck, we have, of course, had a debate on this in committee. What we are doing here today, ladies and gentlemen, is giving a legal basis to a KB to be drawn up by the Minister. That's the first thing we do. So we are not laying down the criteria today. The KB will be prepared by the Minister. Mrs Fonck, you will have the time and opportunity to put questions to the Minister between voting on the law and drafting the Royal Decree. If the Minister is present later, that is not a problem for me, but it is not a question of deciding today what you are asking for, Mrs Fonck. This is for clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u118	Mr President, I think Mrs Fonck's question is entirely legitimate. We have done legislative work to the end.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u119	I cannot accept the response of the government representative. He cannot dismiss parliamentarians in this way by saying that he has other emergencies to deal with. We can thank Mr Peeters for being accruing to us, but I hope that the type of response we have received from Secretary of State Mr Francken does not become the norm in the head of government. It is not acceptable for a member's legitimate question to be answered in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u120	Mr President, Minister, I did not bring you back, but obviously the President reminded you. That you understand what you fall into, since you arrive at the moment! I'll explain. The member who represented the government, and I have no problem with any member of the government representing it, repackaged me by telling me that he did not know how to answer my question and that that was not his problem. When a member of the government is present, he must assume. That being the case, I didn't want to make it a hay or bring you back. You're back in the meantime. I asked your colleague to press you. Willingness, I repeat my message. This bill reflects the agreement of the social partners and I have no problem with that. Mr Van Quickenborne, you're blowing, but if it's like flexi-jobs for which the law needs to be repaired after the fact and we're told that we're right, it's a little easy! )
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u121	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u122	The non-verbal sometimes weighs much more than all the words of the world, Mr Van Quickenborne. He means a lot in politics, anyway! This bill reflects an agreement of the social partners, but in addition to this draft, an extremely important royal decree will be promulgated. Today, in relation to this future royal decree, which must already be very advanced, for which reason we cannot afford to postpone this debate sine die, there are two considerable stakes. The first concerns the sustainability of the prevention services sector. Indeed, this sector has expressed a number of significant concerns with regard to the content of the future royal decree. If I wanted to hear from you about this, if you want to make a few comments, I would like to urge you, above all, to have contact with this sector. The second issue relates to schools. They have made budget projections based on the different tariff levels, which number five. It is clear that many will see the cost of these services more than double. Perhaps at a macro level, this does not represent much for the government, but recognizes that for schools in difficult financial circumstances, the impact will be extremely significant if the cost of services is doubled as a result of these legislative changes and, above all, the Royal Decree. Also, it seems to me that, in the head of government, your responsibility is to be able to preserve not only the financial situation of schools but also the prevention services sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u123	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Fonck, as regards the draft royal decree, you are right, its content is very important. I am, of course, prepared to discuss this in the committee when it is ready. I hope that we will find a consensus. You stressed the importance of schools. I understand your concern very well. I have already said that schools would be in category 1, which is the lowest price. But the package of services is also bigger than before. This is why it is reasonable for schools to pay a higher amount than before because the number of services is higher. I also understand that the budget is important for the school sector. Finally, we will conduct a monitoring to assess the various elements. After a year, we will be able to change what is a problem for some sectors. Mr President, for me the royal decree is no problem. When the chairman of the committee agrees, we can discuss it as soon as this decision is ready, as soon as possible. Mrs Fonck, on your second question, I hear your argument. We will check this and define the amounts, especially for schools.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u124	Mr President, I propose that the subject be discussed further at the committee meeting on 2 December, on which Mr Peeters's policy paper and the budget for next year will be discussed. That's what I said earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u125	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you for joining us, but also for the elements you have given us. I would also like to thank you for your proposal for examination in committee. But to be frank with you, what matters to me is not that parliamentarians are informed, what matters to me is that, ultimately, the sectors are not penalized. Indeed, in my view, the priority is that you take the time to meet with the sectors concerned in order to measure exactly the impact of what this will have in terms of the budget. I understand that schools fall into category 1 and that is the lowest price. However, this will represent more than double the current cost for some schools. I can hear that there will be additional services. However, this may well "plover" some schools. So you need to measure the impacts well and consider what progress could possibly be made. That said, monitoring is certainly an interesting element, but you know as well as I do that it will not be possible to intervene for six months or even a year. Meanwhile, schools in both the north and south of the country are likely to find themselves in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u126	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u127	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1366/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1366/3) The title was amended by the Committee in draft law repealing Article 96 of the Law of 26 December 2013 on the establishment of a unitary statute between workers and servants on notice periods and on day of care and accompanying measures and amending Article 40 of the Law of 4 August 1996 on the welfare of workers in the performance of their work." The title has been amended by the committee in draft law removing section 96 of the Act of 26 December 2013 concerning the introduction of a single statute between workers and employees with regard to notice periods and the day of default, as well as accompanying measures and amending section 40 of the Act of 4 August 1996 on the welfare of workers in the performance of their work." The draft law has 4 articles. The bill has four articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u128	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u129	Pursuant to Rule 116 of the Rules of Procedure, a limited general discussion will take place in plenary. In accordance with rule 116 of the Rules, the bill is the subject of limited general discussion in plenary. The limited general discussion is open. The limited general discussion is open. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these five draft laws. I propose that you devote one discussion to these five bills. Mr Deseyn is the rapporteur. I assume he refers to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The limited general discussion is closed. The limited general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u130	We begin with the discussion of the articles of the draft law 1281. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1281/3) We proceed to the discussion of the clauses of Bill 1281. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1281/3)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u131	No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u132	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We begin with the discussion of the articles of the draft law 1282. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1282/1) We proceed to the discussion of the clauses of Bill 1282. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1282/1)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u133	No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u134	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We begin with the discussion of the articles of the draft law 1283. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1283/1) We proceed to the discussion of the clauses of Bill 1283. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1283/1)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u135	No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u136	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We begin with the discussion of the articles of the draft law 1284. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1284/3) We proceed to the discussion of the clauses of Bill 1284. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1284/3)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u137	No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u138	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We begin by discussing the articles of the 1285 bill. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1285/3) We proceed to the discussion of the clauses of Bill 1285. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1285/3)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u139	No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u140	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u141	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Daniel Senesael, André Frédéric, Alain Mathot, Maya Detiège The Committee on Health, the Environment and Social Renewal proposes to reject this proposal for a resolution. (837/3) The Committee on Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (837/3) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u142	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u143	We can also hear Mr. Senesael, Mr. Frédéric, Mr. Mathot or Mrs. Detiège.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u144	Mr President, Secretary of State, the care of children with autism and their families is still a problem in our country: lack of information, lack of daily support, lack of supervision, lack of adequate and diversified medical care, and lack of lasting solutions throughout the life course. Mr President, there are not many Members in the Chamber but they are noisy! [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u145	I do not oblige you to be interested in what I am saying, but you can talk at the bar and I will finish my speech with the feeling of being interesting! At the beginning of the legislature, my group felt it was essential to work on this issue. I am telling you the importance of this because the problem of autism concerns no less than 70,000 people in our country, that is to say 70,000 families! You can therefore measure the importance of this problem in our country. We tabled a motion for a resolution, which was submitted to a very brief discussion, which took place in June. Perhaps today, things will be different, I will see it in the vote earlier. After an exchange and a few shots of positon, the text was rejected purely and simply, majority against opposition, whereas this is a fundamental problem that concerns a large number of families. The representative of the Minister of Health was also clear. He said the minister did not intend to put in place an autism plan. Moreover, this largely regionalized competence following the sixth reform of the State does not really concern it, he says. However, it is clear that we must allow for early care but also specific to the needs faced by children and their families. This care must in all cases be considered in a comprehensive manner: medical, recognition of disability, reception at school or in specialized institutions, social inclusion. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I know that all levels of authority are involved, including the federal government, including the Minister of Public Health. Yes, despite the transfers, a federal public health policy still needs to be pursued. I have taken note of the general policy note, which we will return to next week. I note that the minister calls for consultation, harmonization and collaboration with the federated entities. I'll have the opportunity to come back to the subject next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u146	Mr President, I would like to confirm what the speaker has said, and I would point out that Minister De Block's commitment to the inter-kabinets working group working together in this area is very important. It must not be said that everything in this area is a state power. There is definitely a federal hatch, including around medication and around a far too medical model. In this respect, we can certainly mean something at federal level. In short, I support this plea.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u147	Mr President, I did not intend to speak because of the clarity of the report. But, Mr. Frédéric, what you said is not correct. Indeed, your assertions are not repeated as they are in the report. The federal minister has stated unequivocally that she fully agrees to be concerned about this important problem, but – it is written black and white – that we should wait for the analyses of the federated entities, both Dutch-speaking and French-speaking. Their reports should be back by the fall. That is why we have asked for some time to react to this proposal. You refused this offer and forced the vote. We were obliged to vote against, because it would have made no sense to adopt the text as it had been made clear in committee that we had to wait for further reports in order to be able to act correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u148	Mr Thiéry, we can debate at length and rewrite history. But I am simply telling those who will have intellectual honesty to remember the way things have happened – let me say that you are uncomfortable, Mr Thiéry, not much to me – that this motion for a resolution has been swept away with such contempt, which I have not seen at a later stage, I agree. Put yourself in the context of the month of June. We were bruised by the way we swept away such a fundamental problem. You said we were waiting for the reports of the federated entities. Maybe. You blame me for not being here, but I participated in the discussions, as did an excellent colleague from your group, namely Mrs Thoron or Mrs Fonck and Mrs Gerkens. They're not going to contradict me. We met with associations of Francophone parents of autistic children. We all told them – including your group – that we would support them. We engaged in it with tears full of eyes, because these people spoke about the essential things they lived daily. Mr Thiéry, a sentence struck me: "The time of politics is not that of families and parents". As we debate and wait for relationships, they have to face a reality with their sick kids! I would like to thank my colleague from Ecolo-Groen for pointing out that indeed a number of jurisdictions are federal. For example, reimbursement of logopedia sessions by the sickness and disability insurance and reimbursement of psychotherapy sessions as part of mental health care are now the responsibility of the federal government. The identification of the number of autism cases in our country is also a federal jurisdiction. Then stop telling me that we are waiting for the federated entities! Like every time, we try to find an excuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u149	Mr President, I hear Mr Frédéric talking about intellectual honesty. Very sincerely, Mr Frédéric, do you not think that you are using terms that are absolutely not suitable, from the moment when everything I have told you is clearly reflected in the report, in which I do not see anywhere the trace of your name? Mr Senesael was indeed present and he received the argument that justified the fact that the minister was waiting to have additional information in order to be able to decide and above all not to give bad hope to the parents of the autistic children. This is clearly reflected in the report. You wanted to force the decision, when you knew very well in advance that our vote would be negative. On the other hand, we made a commitment – the minister made a personal commitment afterwards – to come back as soon as she had the various reports of the federated entities. You can tell me that the federal is important. Of course, the federal government has a role to play. What would you have said if a minister had moved forward without the advice of the federated entities? You would have turned the problem back exactly. In the end, you're talking about intellectual honesty. Ask yourself the right question of who is intellectually honest or not in the report that is made!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u150	Mr President, we can talk endlessly and explain that the other, despite its possible good faith, distorts the remarks. For your information, Mr Thiéry, without wishing to focus on you, but you are the one who assaults me personally, Mr Senesael actually intervened on behalf of my group and I was present, as I participated a whole day in this conference with parents' associations. I was there and I listened. If Mr Senesael does not intervene today, it is because he is on a mission for the Benelux. He's officially apologised. Until proven otherwise, I am a modest member of the Health Committee. In my group, Mr President-in-Office, when a colleague has spoken in committee, we get information from each other and we share information so that we can make up for the shortcomings. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u151	It'll be for Christmas! I wish you well. But it's just me. I am not speaking on behalf of my group, there has been no consultation. I know the outcome of the vote, I know that it will confirm the vote which was imposed on us in committee and which I regret. I will continue the work on the subject because it concerns the daily lives of people, sick people, children, adolescents who suffer. It is also our responsibility as public agents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u152	Mr President, I hear that Mr Frédéric will continue to work on the subject, as well as his group. You can count on us: we will work together.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u153	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u154	The next item is the secret vote on naturalisations. (1423/1-2) The next item is the vote on naturalisations. (1423/1-2) Members are invited to deposit the proposal of naturalisation laws in the ballot box. Members are requested to submit the proposed naturalization laws in the ballot box. The proposal of naturalisation laws must not be signed. The proposed naturalization laws cannot be signed. Where a member opposes the naturalisation of an applicant, he shall delete the name of the interested party from the list which was delivered to him. A member who does not intend to grant naturalization to an applicant will delete the name of the applicant from the list given to him. Two Members must vote. I propose that our youngest two Members, Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou and Mrs Yoleen Van Camp, be appointed as voters. Two members shall proceed to the counting of the ballot. I propose that you appoint the two youngest members, Nawal Ben Hamou and Yoleen Van Camp, as deputy returning officers. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u155	We are going to close the secret vote on naturalization applications. We will close the ballot for naturalization applications. I would ask those Members who have not yet done so to put their ballots on the bus immediately. I ask those members who have not yet tabled their ballots to do so immediately. The secret ballot is closed. I declare the ballot closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u156	The Registrar of the Chamber will reach retirement age in February 2016 and has asked to resign on 30 September 2016. The Clerk of the House will reach retirement age in February 2016 and has asked to be able to stop performing her duties on 30 September 2016. The Bureau of 21 October 2015 proposed that its request be accepted. The Bureau of 21 October 2015 proposed to accede to its request. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No objections? [[No]] That will be the case. The plenary session should ensure its follow-up on 1 October 2016 in accordance with Article 168 of the Rules of Procedure to which "the Chamber shall appoint a Registrar with the rank of Secretary-General who may be dismissed at any time. The vote on this appointment shall take place in accordance with the rules applicable to the appointment of the Bureau." The plenary meeting shall ensure its succession, as of October 1, 2016, in accordance with rule 168 of the House's Rules of Procedure, which states: "A clerk with the rank of secretary general shall be appointed by the House; he shall remain revocable. The vote for this appointment shall be in accordance with the rules laid down for the appointment of the Bureau." In accordance with the opinion of the Bureau of 12 November 2015, I propose that you agree to the following appointment procedure for the new Registrar: - the candidacy shall be limited to the administrative staff of the Chamber established in the degrees of Director or a higher degree and who have been in office for at least two years. These conditions must be fulfilled on the date on which the vacancy arises; - candidates must be of Belgian nationality and bilingual Dutch/French; - a call for candidates shall be sent to the staff concerned with a request to submit their reasoned applications within a period of at least 15 working days, indicating the last day of submission, - the Bureau of the Chamber shall be responsible for examining applications concerning the conditions of admissibility and the suitability to perform the function laid down in Article 169 of the Rules of Procedure and also for submitting a reasoned proposal to the plenary. The Office shall act within five weeks of the closing of the deadline for the submission of applications; - the Agency's proposals shall be communicated to the parties concerned. They shall have a period of 15 days to communicate their observations to the President of the Chamber who shall decide whether there is a need for further reference to the Office; - the minutes of the Office on all matters assigned and all documents submitted by candidates in their candidatures and subsequent observations shall be made available to all Members of Parliament at least 10 days before the plenary session takes its decision; - within four weeks of the date of the abovementioned minutes of the Bureau, the plenary shall decide on the inadmissibility proposal and then by secret ballot on the proposal for appointment submitted by the Bureau. If there is only one candidate, or if there is only one candidate (withdrawal of applications), the candidate shall be elected without a vote in accordance with Rule 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure. The appointment shall be formally justified by the plenary; - the decisions taken by the plenary shall be communicated to the candidates. In accordance with the Bureau's opinion of 12 November 2015, I propose that we agree on the procedure for the appointment of the new Registrar as follows: - candidatures are limited to members of the administrative staff of the Chamber who have been permanently appointed to the rank of Director or to a higher rank and who have been effectively performing this function for at least two years. These conditions must be met on the date on which the function is vacant; - candidates must be Belgian and bilingual French/Dutch nationals; - a call for candidates shall be sent to the staff members concerned, inviting them to submit their reasoned applications within a period of at least 15 working days. The deadline for submission of applications will also be specified; - the Bureau of the Chamber shall be responsible for examining the candidates as to their admissibility and the suitability of the candidates to serve as described in Rule 169 of the Rules of the Chamber. It shall also submit to the plenary meeting a reasoned proposal for the classification of candidates. The Bureau shall decide within 5 weeks of the expiry of the deadline for the submission of applications; - the proposals of the Bureau shall be brought to the attention of the persons concerned. They shall have a period of 15 days within which to submit their observations to the Speaker of the Chamber, who shall decide whether to refer the case to the Bureau; - the minutes of the Bureau concerning all the tasks entrusted to it and all the documents submitted by the candidates at the time of the submission of candidatures and subsequent observations shall be made available to all members of the Chamber for consultation at least ten days before the vote of the plenary assembly; - the plenary meeting shall decide within four weeks of the date of the minutes of the Bureau meeting on the proposal for inadmissibility and then, by secret ballot, on the proposal for appointment submitted by the Bureau. If there is or remains only one candidate (withdrawal of candidatures), the candidate shall then be declared elected without a vote, in accordance with rule 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure. The appointment shall be formally motivated by the plenary assembly; - decisions taken by the plenary meeting shall be brought to the attention of the candidates. I propose to send the call to candidates on Friday 20 November 2015 and to set the deadline for closing the submission of applications on Monday 14 December 2015. The Bureau will therefore have to take a decision before 18 January 2016. I propose that you send the call to the candidates on Friday, November 20, 2015 and close the deadline for submission of applications on Monday, December 14, 2015. The Bureau will therefore have to take a decision before 18 January 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No objections? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u157	I propose that Mr Stéphane Crusnière, Mr Peter Vanvelthoven, Mr Alain Mathot, Mr Ahmed Laaouej and Mr Hans Bonte amend Article 35 (2) of the Law of 11 January 1993 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing (No. 1139/1) to be referred to the Committee on Justice in order to add it to the draft law amending criminal law and criminal proceedings and laying down various provisions on justice (No. 1418/1). I propose that you refer to the Committee on Justice the bill of Messrs. Stéphane Crusnière, Peter Vanvelthoven, Alain Mathot, Ahmed Laaouej and Hans Bonte amending Article 35(2) of the Law of 11 January 1993 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering and the financing of terrorism (No. 1139/1) in order to attach it to the draft law amending criminal law and criminal procedure and laying down various provisions in the field of justice (No. 1418/1). This proposal was previously sent to the Finance and Budget Committee. This proposal had previously been referred to the Committee on Finance and the Budget. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u158	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 November 2015, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mr Hendrik Vuye, Mrs Laurette Onkelinx, Mr Denis Ducarme, Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mr Patrick Dewael, Mrs Karin Temmerman and Mr Christian Brotcorne and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke) amending the law of 18 July 1991 regulating the supervision of police and intelligence services and the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis as regards the mandate of alternate members of the Standing Supervisory Committee on Police Services and the Standing Supervisory Committee on Intelligence, No. 1446/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u159	- the motion for a resolution (Mrs Leen Dierick and others) to draw up an energy vision and an energy pact, No. 1462/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u160	- the motion for a resolution (Doc. Alain Mathot, Frédéric Daerden, Jean-Marc Delizée, Willy Demeyer, Laurent Devin, Sébastian Pirlot, Philippe Blanchart, Daniel Senesael, Emir Kir and Eric Thiébaut) on the establishment of a permanent advance payment system to be deducted from the additional taxes on personal income, No. 1465/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u161	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 November 2015, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (Mr Hendrik Vuye, Mrs Laurette Onkelinx, MM. Denis Ducrame, Servais Verherstraeten and Patrick Dewael, Ms Karin Temmerman and Messrs. Christian Brotcorne and Stefaan Van Hecke) amending the Act of 18 July 1991 on the Control of Police and Intelligence Services and the Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis with regard to the terms of office of the alternate members of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services and the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence Services, No. 1446/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u162	- the motion for a resolution (Ms. Leen Dierick et al.) on the development of an energy vision and an energy pact, No. 1462/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u163	- the motion for a resolution (MM. Alain Mathot, Frédéric Daerden, Jean-Marc Delizée, Willy Demeyer, Laurent Devin, Sébastian Pirlot, Philippe Blanchart, Daniel Senesael, Emir Kir and Eric Thiébaut) with a view to introducing a permanent system of advances to be applied to the proceeds of additional personal tax, No 1465/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u164	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u165	Mr President, I would like to ask the urgency of this proposal. 1446/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u166	Mr Degroote, you are being asked to state your reasons for the request for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u167	You are aware of the content of the proposal. All the political groups have co-signed it. In view of the forthcoming new composition, urgent treatment is certainly appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u168	Also because the mandate is about to expire. Ladies and gentlemen, I would suggest that we take a position on this question as a matter of urgency in the usual way, sitting and standing up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u169	The proposal will be sent to the Home Affairs Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u170	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for Business, Science Policy, Education, the National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture of 10 November 2015. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture on 10 November 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 064/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Leen Dierick and Mr Benoît Friart, Johan Klaps and Egbert Lachaert. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 064/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms Leen Dierick and by Messrs. Benoît Friart, Johan Klaps and Egbert Lachaert. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u171	Mr President, I have interviewed Minister Borsus about the budget he can allocate to organisations, institutions and individuals involved in promoting SMEs and protecting the self-employed. His answer to my written question showed that he has already allocated more than half of his 2015 budget to concrete projects. Of the list of 37 projects there appeared to be 36 Walloon projects and one Flemish project. Of these 36 projects, six came from Mr Borsus' province, whether by chance or not. However, the majority of SMEs are located in Flanders. In this way a new Community distortion will be created, and we cannot do that at a time of Community stagnation. My motion for a recommendation therefore seeks to publicise the existence of these subsidies in Flanders, or not less than in Flanders, so that applications can also be made on the Dutch-speaking side. I am counting on the support of all of you for this motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u172	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u173	Yes 86 Yes No. 44 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 133 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u174	These inquiries were developed in a public meeting of the Commission on Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises on November 10, 2015. These interviews were held at the public meeting of the Commission for Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises of 10 November 2015. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 081/1): - a first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Ms Karine Lalieux and Ms Vanessa Matz and by Messrs. Kristof Calvo, David Geerts, Benoit Hellings, Olivier Maingain et Marco Van Hees; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Kristof Calvo et Benoit Hellings; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs. Inez De Coninck and Ms. Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and Mr. Denis Ducarme et Jef Van den Bergh. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 081/1): - a first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mrs Vanessa Matz and by Mr Kristof Calvo, Mr David Geerts, Mr Benoit Hellings, Mr Olivier Maingain and Mr Marco Van Hees; - a second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Kristof Calvo and Mr Benoit Hellings; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Inez De Coninck and Mr Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and Mr Denis Ducarme and Mr Jef Van den Bergh. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u175	Mr President, just for your information. Are you dealing with the two motions at once or separately?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u176	At the same time. There are two motions of recommendation, and a simple motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u177	Does that also apply to the next point, point 4?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u178	We'll talk about that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u179	I shall then give an explanation of vote on the next point.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u180	You're right, indeed. Sorry. Does anyone wish to give an explanation of vote? Are there any statements before the vote? Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u181	Yes 81 Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u182	These inquiries were developed in a public meeting of the combined commissions of Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises and the Interior, General Affairs and Public Service of 13 November 2015. These interviews were held at the public meeting of the United Commissions for Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises and for Home Affairs, General Affairs and Public Administration of 13 November 2015. Five motions were tabled (MOT No. 080/2): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. David Geerts; - a motion of distrust of the Minister of Mobility was tabled by Messrs. Georges Dallemagne and Olivier Maingain; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Karine Lalieux; - a third motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Marco Van Hees; - a simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Christoph D.H.Haese, Patrick Dewael, Denis Ducarme et Servais Verherstraeten. Five motions were tabled (MOT No. 080/2): - a first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr David Geerts; - a motion of censure against the Minister for Mobility was tabled by Mr Georges Dallemagne and Mr Olivier Maingain; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Karine Lalieux; - a third motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Marco Van Hees; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Christoph D. Haese, Mr Patrick Dewael, Mr Denis Ducarme and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u183	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I know that there are important issues here today, but I would like to use the two minutes to fulfil my essential role as a Member of Parliament and to control the government. I have said on several occasions that I have absolutely nothing against Mrs Galant's person. I fully understand the honourable Members of the MR, who have defended the Minister on several occasions in committee, but as a Member of Parliament I absolutely cannot agree with it. We have seen that table, but our remark was a little laughed away by the Prime Minister. However, signing a provisional credit in October for credits in 2015 is absolutely unseen. That is why I wanted to take the floor here. It is, of course, positive that the Prime Minister has declared that the Minister concerned is responsible for the whole process. The ping-pong game with the administration is settled and the minister is responsible. He also stated that the procedure had been irregular; the words "irrégulier' and "irrégularité' had been used. The worst thing about the case is that no conclusions are drawn. We have had a long debate, but we have not had a chance to discuss it. I find this distressing, because in fact the government is saying that ministers are above the law, that a mistake has been made, but that it is now moving on to the order of the day. My concern is that such procedures absolutely must be avoided, all the more so because important issues such as policy papers are being addressed, for which we need ministers who can speak with confidence, who are credible. Moreover, I am still left with the question of where, among other things, the contracts are. We have therefore tabled a motion for a recommendation in order to avoid such situations from now on. I hope that everyone will exercise their right of control as a Member of Parliament and will not simply go on to the order of the day with the approval of the simple motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u184	Mr President, as my colleague has said, the Prime Minister has acknowledged an irregularity in the procedure as well as Ms. Galant's responsibility for the appointment of the cabinet of Clifford. He regretted to us that no contract or mission letter had been drawn up at a cost of almost 500,000 euros. It would have been better if it was Mrs Galant herself who recognized her responsibility, who immediately told the whole truth before Parliament and played the map of transparency. We regret that this was not the case. Today, Mr President, we must look to the future and look at the substance of the matter, namely the overflight of Brussels and its surroundings. The motion that has been tabled reminds us of our demands: a quiet night from 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. in the morning, the gradual disappearance of night flights, the taking into account of population density overhanging, the essential coordination with the Regions and the establishment of an independent monitoring body. I repeat that it is now important to work on the substance of the matter as the citizens wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u185	Mr President, we have had ample opportunity to discuss this issue. There is no doubt today about responsibilities. The CDH therefore believes that bad governance must simply be punished.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u186	Mr President, I will not go back to all the elements that have been debated for long hours in committee. Parliamentary work has taken place. The documents were sent to us. The minister spoke along with the Prime Minister. They both recalled the imprudence that was in place. On the other hand, good faith is an important element for us in interpreting the elements that have been brought to our knowledge. I would add that the Finance Inspectorate has also submitted its report. We can now go to the bottom of the case, as the chairman of the committee pointed out, namely to find a comprehensive and balanced agreement on the Brussels overflight.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u187	Mr President, the Prime Minister has come to committee to try to demonstrate the good faith of his minister, Mrs Galant. I must say that he has made many efforts to do so. These efforts must be recognized. Unfortunately, it was far from convincing, the facts showing the opposite. Our motion does not call for the resignation of the minister, but for her competences from SNCB and Mobility to be removed and, given the risky nature of her policy, for her to be given the competence of the National Lottery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u188	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 81 Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation and the motion of censure lapse. The simple motion was adopted. As a result, the motions of recommendation and the motion of distrust are lapsed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u189	This is the result of the secret vote on naturalizations. (1423/2) This is the result of the naturalization vote. (1423/2) Aantal stemmen 124 Number of voters Valid votes 123 Votes valables Perfect majority 62 Absolute majority All naturalisations have achieved the absolute majority. The proposal of naturalisation laws will be voted on shortly. All naturalizations obtained an absolute majority. The vote on the proposed naturalization laws will take place in a moment. The proposal of the Committee on Naturalizations consists of three parts (A, B and C) each containing several articles to be adopted. The Naturalisations Commission's proposal is divided into three parts (A, B and C) each containing several articles to be adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u190	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u191	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u192	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u193	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 112 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1252/5) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1252/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u194	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u195	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course we can only support the postponement of the six-month entry into force, which has been requested by the Communities, of the new autonomous penalties – electronic surveillance – which are being carried out by the Communities following the last reform of the State. However, we can only disapprove and condemn the postponement of certain provisions relating to the external status of convicted persons until 1 September 2017. These provisions, which will therefore be very much postponed, not to say to the Greek calends, represent a certain advance in the rights of the convicted. I would like to recall that they submit to a judge rather than to the executive branch the procedure which allows convicted persons with sentences of up to three years to benefit from the modalities of the execution of their sentence: limited detention, electronic supervision, parole. When one complains that there is overcrowding in prisons, this is a good way to reduce it! It is therefore with regret that our group will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u196	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 81 Yes No. [[12]] No Abstentions 43 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1387/4) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1387/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u197	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (803/7) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (803/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u198	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 133 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1330/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1330/4) Mrs Ceysens has voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u199	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1366/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1366/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u200	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 121 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1281/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1281/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u201	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[120]] Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1282/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1282/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u202	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 121 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 137 Total
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u203	Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1283/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1283/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u204	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u205	Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1284/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1284/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u206	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u207	Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1285/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1285/4) )
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u208	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 81 Yes No. [[55]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 837/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 837/1 is therefore rejected. Proposal of naturalisation laws Proposal for naturalization laws We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for naturalisation laws, the articles of which we have just discussed. We will proceed to vote on the proposed naturalization laws that we have just discussed. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u209	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 136 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part A). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part A). It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u210	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (vote 13) Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part B). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part B). It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u211	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (vote 13) Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part C). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part C). It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u212	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip082x.u213	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 26 November 2015. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 26 November 2015. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 26 November 2015 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 26 November 2015, at 2.15 p.m.
