ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u2	By letter of 15 September 2015, the Parliament of the German-speaking Community informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 15 September 2015, the Parliament of the German-speaking Community announced that it had constituted itself at its meeting today. Mit Schreiben vom 15. September 2015 teilt das Parlament der Deutschsprachigen Gemeinschaft mit, dass es sich in signaler Sitzung vom 15. September 2015 konstituiert hat.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u3	By letter dated 21 September 2015, the Brussels-Capital Parliament informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 21 September 2015, the Parliament of the Brussels-Capital Region announced that it had constituted itself at its meeting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u4	By letter dated 22 September 2015, the United Assembly of the Joint Community Committee informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 22 September 2015, the Assembly meeting of the Joint Community Commission announced that it had constituted itself at its meeting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u5	By letter of 23 September 2015, the Assemblée de la Commission Communautaire française informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 23 September 2015, the Assembly of the French Community Commission announced that it had formed itself at its meeting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u6	By letter dated 23 September 2015, the Council of the Flemish Community Commission informed us that it had been declared legal and complete at that day's meeting. By message of September 23, 2015, the Raad van de Vlaamse Gemeenschapscommissie announced that it had formed in its session today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u7	By letter of 23 September 2015, the Walloon Parliament informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 23 September 2015, the Walloon Parliament announced that it had constituted itself at today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u8	By letter of 24 September 2015, the Parliament of the French Community informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 24 September 2015, the Parliament of the French Community announced that it had constituted itself at its sitting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u9	By letter dated 28 September 2015, the Flemish Parliament informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 28 September 2015, the Flemish Parliament announced that it had formed itself at today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u10	The next item is the debate on the government statement. The next item is the discussion of the Government's statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u11	Mr Calvo has the floor for an order motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u12	Mr President, at the beginning of our sitting I must come back to an intervention by my colleague Mr Nollet yesterday on the need for transparency by the government on both budgetary adjustments and the tax shift. We were particularly pleased in the first instance when the Prime Minister indicated in his reply that he wanted to ensure the necessary transparency. We hoped and thought that the new Minister for the Budget, Mr Wilmès, would also congratulate you on your appointment, but it turns out that this is not the case at the end of the day. Mr President of the Chamber, yesterday we received a half-a-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a-half-a. It now appears that in the meantime a variant of that table circulates in the corridors of journalists and that less information is made available to the representatives of the people than to the media. I would like to list three specific problems which are best addressed. Firstly, if we compare the two tables, we can see that there is an additional EUR 200 million in development cooperation savings and that there is nothing of this in Parliament's version. Secondly, yesterday the Prime Minister talked about EUR 2.4 billion in capital tax, the table we received on the tax shift before the summer, talks about EUR 1.5 billion, and everything had already been dragged into it. So suddenly there is 700 million euros difference. Thirdly, today we read in the newspapers that the government is still bickering about Mr Peeters' mini-speculant tax. Mr Van Overtveldt, who is always here in the Chamber to lecture the Greeks on budgetary discipline and serious fiscal homework, is once again not ready. Those are three things that smell like amateurism and at least bear witness to a total lack of transparency. Since our previous mails and letters have not been enough, since yesterday the Minister wanted to send Parliament with a piece of cake, you are forcing us, Mr President of the Chamber, to submit an order motion, on the basis of Rule 54 of the Rules of Procedure. We ask the House to give its opinion on making the figures available in such a way that, with Mrs Onkelinx at the kick-off, Parliament can have a serious and full debate on the substance. The government is proud of its tax shift, well, that it then puts the figures on the table and dares to open the debate openly. You do not have to put it to a vote, Mr President, if you take responsibility for this. It is about the credibility of Parliament and therefore of you, as President of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u13	In the hope of shortening a possible long discussion, I support the demand for figures from Parliament. I urge the government to have these figures available to Parliament. As a journalist, it seems to me that this was the habit until the mid-2000s. It would be a good thing to reintroduce it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u14	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Calvo for his speech, which will allow me to explain simply what is happening to the tables and the tax on speculation. I hope we can understand each other. First of all, you mentioned the speculation tax. I can confirm that the texts are being validated at first reading by the government. Two technical checks have yet to be carried out; they should be lifted for the Council of Ministers on Friday. They are purely technical, since the key political aspects have all been validated – whether they are the rate of 33%, the restriction on individuals or the application to listed companies. Secondly, if I look at the last few years, it is not common for legal texts to be well advanced in a government statement. Often, a government declaration is an opportunity to chart prospects without having all the legal texts finalized up to the last carat. In this case, we have made good progress in this regard and we will be able to send these texts very quickly to the Council of State, to consider them at second reading and to submit them to the parliamentary debate. Even though in practice in recent years, as you have recalled, budget documents have not been attached to government statements, we have chosen last year during the debate – and I remember the emotion that was manifested at that time – to communicate such texts. Here, what is it? There is a table that has been validated and communicated to Parliament. The document you refer to, which you mentioned in the press, is indeed a working document that has been used in the negotiations and is fully compatible with the document you received. There is one difference: the table you mention refers to nominal figures. Since 2012, however, we have been working mainly on the structural front. We also wanted to look at the nominal part, because at European level we also have to explain the situation in this area. On the nominal level, we are in the process of finalizing the final calculations with the experts. We have not presented this table of the nominal part to Parliament because before Thursday, the date of the presentation of the draft to Europe, we still have to finalise the last figures on a comma basis. Yesterday we gave you the figures that were structurally stable. But I confirm to you that the documents you have at your disposal on the nominal level correspond to what we used in the discussions and negotiations this weekend. They're valid. The draft will be sent by perhaps adjusting these figures in a very marginal way. There may still be a few developments between today and tomorrow, in a very limited way. But we didn't want to give a picture that wasn't fully stabilized. I now turn to the tax shift table. I take the president and the assembly to witness. We distributed this table at the end of July. The tax shift table has not changed since, with a reservation that I mentioned in the government statement, namely that, first, we add an additional 300 million euros in 2018 and 2019 – and, second, we use the 2020 purchasing power envelope – of 850 million euros as of 2019. These are the only changes. We did not work during negotiations on an adjusted tax shift table. There is simply a notification that makes a correction to the tax shift table, without having been worked on in the same table. I hope that these few elements, both in terms of the budget table and in terms of the tax shift table, have informed you. I propose, if necessary, that the July tax shift table be redistributed. If a few have lost it, they will be able to receive it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u15	Mr Prime Minister, yesterday I did not quite understand what you said when you tried to convince us in your speech with our project is not an accounting project. Now I know what you are saying, in particular that your accounting is incorrect and your tax homework is not done. I would like to explain, Mr President, what the Prime Minister said. Prime Minister, you said that nothing has changed compared to July. Perhaps I should redistribute the table because some people may have lost it. What is in the July table on capital tax? Not EUR 2.4 billion, as you said yesterday, but EUR 1.5 billion. That is a difference of EUR 700 million. Mr President, I therefore agree with the Prime Minister when he says that the July table should be redistributed. We can then take note of the fact that yesterday the Prime Minister exaggerated EUR 700 million. Secondly, our question of honesty makes sense. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the Prime Minister said: 'Never has a government done so much in terms of capital, we have never reduced so much labour costs'. Big words. Then put those numbers on the table, make it in writing. Prime Minister, listen to the President of the Chamber's call for the figures to be presented. If you do not want to do so spontaneously, we ask for a vote on the order motion. We would then ask that the majority of Members vote on it. They can then say together with us that this Parliament must be able to work in such a serious way at such an important time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u16	Mr Calvo, I suggest that we talk about the regulation of work and only about that. I have listened carefully to the Prime Minister's reply, and I understand that with a few technical details...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u17	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u18	I am talking about the budget figures. In the first instance, there is no substantial difference, apart from a few technical details, between the so-called two versions, that of Parliament and that of the media. Secondly, the figures were distributed. As far as the tax shift is concerned, reference is made to a document distributed in July. I understand from that that there are no figures for the rest. So it's hard to ask for figures that aren't there. If you insist on the motion you have tabled, we will proceed to a vote, but you are actually asking for figures that are not there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u19	Mr President, my question is very simple. I would ask the Prime Minister, who released yesterday's figures on the left and right, to make these figures hard in a concrete table. You say it's about technical details. I am very sorry. Mr Van Overtveldt, there is a difference of EUR 700 million. Is that a technical detail? Should the Greeks do so, you would say in the gallery that it is an absolute disgrace and that that budget is not correct. Then you would say that these people do not do their homework and wonder what is happening in southern Europe. However, in this case, the majority says that EUR 700 million difference is not bad and that we can also debate it in this way. However, this is not how Parliament works, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. Admit it and ask the Prime Minister and the new Minister of the Budget to work in a serious way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u20	Mr President, I think that Mr Calvo is mainly in the process of taking a place in the order of the speakers and thus preventing Mrs Onkelinx from taking the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u21	So what?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u22	Et allors?The order of the speakers was agreed, Mr Nollet. You shouldn't get nervous. As far as the numbers tables are concerned, please turn off the plate. That's a classic. Last year, you actually tried the same thing. Mr President, what is the meaning of the State of the Union and of the September declaration in the Flemish Parliament? The Prime Minister makes a statement on general political policy and has completed the internal budgetary exercise, which must be submitted to the committees with figures and tables, as a result of the legislation on national compatibility, within the deadlines set. I am looking at colleague Vande Lanotte. At the time, I was able to work perfectly with you in many governments when you were Minister of the Budget and I would ask you to consider what was then debated by the Prime Minister as the October Declaration of State of the Union and what was distributed to Members of Parliament in numerical tables. I would like to make one comment. The Prime Minister has rightly referred to the decision-making process which still has to take place in the Council of Ministers, for example with regard to the tax on speculation. We would be putting the cart in front of the horse by distributing texts in Parliament which are still to be approved by the Council of Ministers. Mr Calvo, I have one final element that I would like to present to you at the moment in this brief interruption. I used to be a young lawyer. When did I start talking about procedures? When did I start in court about files that weren't properly compiled? Today, that has become an appeal in itself. We call that the procedural lawyers today. When do lawyers start talking about procedures? If they have a bad record! The contents of the government's file are obvious and you have a bad file. Mr President, I would like to ask you to look at the practice of previous years. Let us not waste hours on this. I look forward to the debate on the substance. I am actually looking forward to Mrs Onkelinx's speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u23	Mr Calvo, are you holding your motion?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u24	Mr Dewael, we are talking about EUR 700 million in fiscal measures. A liberal party is normally a party to taxation. That is her core business This is not a procedural issue but a matter of substance. We are therefore asking for the vote on our motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u25	Ik heb een ordemotie ontvangen van de heren Kristof Calvo en Jean-Marc Nollet in toepassing van artikel 54 van ons Regulation, luidend als volgt:"Following the presentation to the press by Prime Minister Charles Michel's government of the detailed figures of budgetary and fiscal measures relating to fiscal adjustment 2015, budget 2016 and tax shift, we wrote to you asking that the government also immediately table these elements to Parliament. Apart from the fact that we received figures only after the government declaration of 13 October, they were ridiculous in comparison with the information provided to the press and totally insufficient to enable proper information from Parliament in view of the uncertainties surrounding, for example, the tax on capital gains or the tax on sweet drinks. In view of these elements, we ask you, by this point of order and on behalf of our group, that the government show a little more respect for our assembly and that it table without delay in Parliament the update of the multi-year budget tables communicated in October 2014 and July 2015 following the 2015 budget adjustment and the 2016 budget as well as the detailed figures for the tax shift measures." "In response to the figures presented by Prime Minister Charles Michel's government to the press on budgetary and fiscal measures in the context of the 2015 budgetary adjustment, the 2016 budget and the tax shift, we have asked you in writing to ask the government to provide that information to Parliament without delay. Not only did we receive figures only after yesterday's government statement, but it was also a joke compared to the information provided to the press and it was not enough to inform Parliament correctly, given the current uncertainty about, for example, the tax on added value or the tax on sugary drinks. In the light of the above, we ask you, by means of this order of business and on behalf of our group, to ask the government to show greater respect for our assembly and without delay to submit to Parliament the updated multiannual budgetary tables transmitted in October 2014 and July 2015 as a result of the budgetary adjustment 2015 and the 2016 budget, as well as the figures relating to the measures taken under the tax shift." The motion shall be admissible and may be submitted to the Chamber. We are going to vote on this and stand up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u26	Mr President, in order for Mr Nollet to be able to count, before I speak, we could perhaps pay tribute to yesterday's exploit of the Red Devils, who occupy the world's first place, by applauding them! [[Applause, except for group N-VA and VB]] It's not very pretty, ladies and gentlemen of the N-VA! Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen, at its press conference on Saturday and yesterday, the government, in a way, called the superlatives to call its action: "historic", "magnificent", "grandiose", "spectacular", "impressively impressive"; we almost expected to see the flags raised to greet the new Belgium, part of nothing, and now able to flirt with the zenith! The flags remained in their place and, let's face it, there was no popular celebration. On the contrary, men and women everywhere challenge in large numbers, professionals insurgency, fear and uncertainty arise. Why? Yet there are goals that I welcome in your choices. The desire to reduce taxes on work is obviously a good thing. The fact of helping the self-employed and SMEs to commit is obviously a decision that I welcome. Why, then, is this lack of confidence and this gnawing challenge? I'm putting forward four reasons. First, in a year, you've done a lot of damage. At the head of a government that brings all the right people together, you have imposed a real liberal austerity cure. I am thinking of the index jump, which is a real tax on workers and on social recipients for the benefit of companies. I am thinking of older workers who will have to work longer to earn less, regardless of their occupation. The list of your offensives is long as a day without bread: lowering the pension age to 67; tightening access to early pension, to survival pension; availability adapted for pre-pensioners; abolition of the pension bonus; attack on public pensions,... I would say that with you, decisively, aging is a scourge! I am thinking of the sick workers who will, under penalty, have to accept a reintegration agreement. I am thinking of the fate your government has reserved for women. It is not necessary to establish a hierarchy between the victims, but it happens that they are the ones who suffer the most the hardening of the career condition. They are the ones who support the increase, for example, in the cost of consultations with the gynecologist. It is all these women who are working part-time involuntarily and are going to see their income drastically reduced as a result of your reform of the income guarantee allowance. I think this is the first reason. The second reason is, in a way, the feeling of injustice. This is the cry that has been heard a hundred thousand times in the streets of Brussels. Where is this courage when we tackle the weak when, at the same time, sanctions are reduced for those who pay secret commissions, we support the large revenues of diamond miners and we reduce the taxation of liquidation gains? Where is the courage when, at the same time, you restore home visits for the unemployed in the name, you say, of compliance with the law but that you offer a possibility of permanent regularization for the big fraudsters? On the ground, you know, I think, you are widely referred to as an unfair government. You're redoing history, but the real hero is no longer Robin Hood, but Nottingham's sheriff. You won't be able to convince me that way. The third reason lies in the conviction that you are missing your tax turn. Why? For, in a way, you give with one hand and take back from the other. In our view of the tax shift, the fall in taxes on labour is financed by the tax on big fortunes and the taxation of capital gains, so that workers have a net gain. You, you finance it almost exclusively by increasing taxes on consumption, so people will lose on one side what they have earned on the other. It's probably a consistent choice for a right-wing government, but it's an unfair choice. First, you lower the salary with the index jump, then you increase it with the tax reform. But people will pay more for their shopping, their electricity, their health care. They will pay more for their access to justice and, when they are done working, in a long time, they will earn less for their pension. You said yesterday, "jobs, jobs, jobs." Well, they see, "taxes, taxes, taxes." For pensioners, the situation is worse. Even if you count the well-being envelope – we could talk a lot about it – the situation is as follows. Pensioners, like the sick, job seekers and the poor you mentioned yesterday, will not benefit from the tax reform. On the other hand, they have undergone index jumps and will pay more for their energy consumption, their shopping at the store. Pensioners and other social beneficiaries are truly victims of a game of dupes. You can repeat a thousand times that your reform is historic, they know they've been taken. Finally, uncertainty about the future,...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u27	Mrs. Onkelinx, I wouldn't want to interrupt you for too long. I will also have the opportunity to comment on a number of your comments. However, in your beautiful equation, there is an element that strikes me from the entrance. Indeed, you must be complete when you talk about the wellness envelope. Unlike the Di Rupo government, we activated it at 100%. (...) No, Mr. Laaouej, that's not wrong! It's a reality. I know it's hard for you to admit it, but it's a reality. In relation to the social effort in this area, we are very simply more social than the socialists. More social than the Di Rupo government. So, if you wish, Mrs Onkelinx, to be complete, remember that, under the Di Rupo government, the wellness envelope has been activated at 60% and, as far as the Michel government is concerned, it is 100% activated.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u28	I am well aware of the situation in the welfare envelope, in particular because it is the Socialists who have been able to obtain a welfare envelope for pensioners and other social beneficiaries. It's a socialist fight that we ripped out at the time! Have you kept the wellness envelope 100%? Of course not! As part of the negotiations on the sixth reform of the State, we all agreed that this welfare package should be calculated on all allowances, including family allowances. You ragged her. On the other hand, you have imposed an index jump that, of course, completely absorbs the well-being envelope. So, no, this well-being envelope, you didn't use it 100% and, yes, you reduced the means of pensioners and other social beneficiaries by the index jump and by the taxes on consumption.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u29	Mrs Onkelinx, you are talking about the welfare envelope and the 100% application, including the family attachments. Can you remind me where this is exactly in the texts of the sixth state reform? Your party transferred family benefits to the Communities. It took the lead in this and approved it. Then it seems to me normal that we should no longer concern ourselves with matters which fall within the competence of the Communities. There's been something like a sixth state reform. We weren't involved, but you were.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u30	Mr Vuye, unlike the N-VA, which did not want this reform of the state but preferred its dismantling, the Socialist Party was at the negotiating table. I was there personally and I know very well how this well-being envelope, which we are talking about, had to be calculated, that is, on all social benefits.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u31	I would therefore like to make it clear from your statement that I have it in mind and that it is not in the texts. You might as well have put it in there, if that's what's so important to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u32	I believe that this should even be included in one of the explanations given by the two ministers of the institutional reforms who have negotiated the reform of the State. I'm going to the fourth reason. You have goals that, for some, are good. But why is there such a challenge? This is in particular because of the uncertainty for the future. What's going to happen to us? This government has consciously decided to reduce what constitutes the core of intra-Belgian solidarity: public service and social security, which are, with taxation, the engines of redistribution. Even for those who do not have a lot of income, there is this intervention of support, help, accompaniment, regulation that allows them to live in dignity. It is thanks to the public service and social security that have been, remember, real shields to protect people from the effects of the banking crisis that our country is – and I am proud of it – one of the best placed in terms of well-being. But that's where you're wearing the iron. One example is health care. A General Council of INAMI that refuses the health care budget, I have never experienced such a situation! It's historical! Because of this, you are programming 3.3 billion savings in health care. It's huge! Needlessly, either the costs for patients will be more and more expensive, or the wait for treatment will be longer and longer, or the quality can no longer be assured for all. What a waste! But that's not all! You are presenting a budgetary perspective – Mr Calvo has alluded to it – with big holes. It's not very serious. Madam Budget Minister, I sincerely congratulate you on your appointment, but I wish you pleasure in the Committee on the Budget! First of all, you will have to explain why the government asked the Monitoring Committee not to do its normal assessment work on the performance targets for the July measures presented under the tax shift. Is it because you were afraid to face the skepticism of experts on many of your measurements? Is it because you were afraid to clarify exactly what the concept of redeignment of administrations stands for in the amount of 550 million euros? Were you afraid to have the 950 million reduced interest charges checked and the 600 million returned in effect? Once you have given these first explanations, Madam Minister, you can move on to the rest of the menu. How, beyond the technical corrections that will only hold for a while, are you going to make up for the structural decline in tax revenues? You will also have to explain how to finance the remainder of the trajectory with just over a billion, an amount that is not funded by the 2018 deadline. Moreover, since the tax shift was scheduled until 2020, how will the additional €1.15 billion be filled? Prime Minister, uncertainty is also a thorny issue. What will they reserve for us to fill the gaps in the budget? We know that there is little question of attacking the income of capital. Indeed, you have been more than chilly at the idea of touching the latter. We will explain this during the specialised debates. We are talking about a maximum of 700 million, which is very little. This represents an amount seven times less than that retained under the former legislature. Having said that, as I have already indicated in July, I welcome your decision to increase the furniture discount. On the other hand, I believe that you are doing your show when you claim to tackle speculation, when in reality the expected revenue is less than EUR 30 million, 25 times less than the amount of the increase in VAT on electricity. You are much more enterprising when it comes to attacking our social gains. How many more lines are we going to decide to close at SNCB? How many bpost workers do you still intend to lay off? What moderator tickets do you plan to increase again? How many invalids are we going to try to get out of the job or the CPAS? What will be the new loss of purchasing power for pensioners? In short, with you, modest people are afraid of the future. Prime Minister, yesterday you gave us an address that I will call agreed. I had additional answers for Mr. Ducarme concerning welfare allowances. Anyway, I said, and I repeat, because it's important, with you, modest people are afraid of the future. You gave an agreed statement justifying your government's decisions. In a speech on the State of the Union, we expect more, in particular a vision of the future on the major challenges of the moment. In this regard, I would like to mention four major projects which should certainly be the subject of debate and decisions in the coming year. The first of these projects is obviously the climate emergency. In just over forty days, delegations from 195 countries and hundreds of NGOs will meet in Paris to combat global warming. In some, these great conferences are viewed with cynicism and discouragement, but defeatism and inaction are the worst of attitudes because the urgency is there and it is indisputable. For the great climatologists, it is the human species that plays its survival. The future Paris Protocol should set binding targets for reducing greenhouse gases, which would keep global warming below the two-degree threshold. There is therefore a need for a fair agreement, taking into account the different responsibilities and capacities of each individual. Assistance to developing countries must enable them to achieve their social development, without taking the same polluting path we have taken in the past. At the 2009 Copenhagen Conference, industrialized countries set themselves the goal of mobilizing a hundred billion dollars a year by 2020 to support developing countries. This promise must of course be fulfilled. It is on these conditions that the Paris conference will restore hope and be a success. Prime Minister, Belgium, as a historic emitter of greenhouse gases, obviously has to assume its responsibilities at federal level, of course, but also at other levels of power. You didn't talk about it until yesterday. You have not announced, for example, any budget for the United Nations Green Fund. As a contribution from Belgium, you mentioned the increase in VAT on electricity and the excise duty on diesel. To tell people that increasing VAT is environmental, I think it is not only not very honest, very efficient or social, but also to take the risk of permanently disgusting them with the environmental policies that are essential. I would add that at the same time, you increase the annual electricity bill of households by a hundred euros. You give Electrabel a gift by greatly reducing the levies that the historical producer must pay to the State and by also extending two nuclear reactors. For the PS, a policy that strengthens Electrabel's monopoly and places nuclear power at the centre of the game, with the risks and accumulation of waste involved, can never be a policy of sustainable development. You are in no way preparing the country's energy future. [[Applause on the opposition benches]] With regard to the increase in diesel excise duties, I would like to ask you this: how, Prime Minister, can you honestly say that you are working to reduce diesel consumption when, at the same time, you are tackling public transport, as evidenced by the drastic cuts in the SNCB budget? Two billions of savings imposed on it in five years, this amounts to a 20% reduction in the resources allocated. You are, in a way, forcing Minister Galant to be the Diafoirus of this government. You remember this doctor who, in Molière's Imaginary Sickness, treats all diseases and ailments by bleeding, purging and clysteries. While some already want to include our traffic jams on UNESCO's World Heritage site, the only answer this government is to saber into SNCB's endowments. This massive disinvestment in rail is an economic, social and environmental absurdity. [[Applause on the opposition benches]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u33	The second major project is the democratic urgency, which should bring us together beyond the divisions between majority and opposition. The participation of citizens in the management of the City is a condition of democratic vitality. But we have problems to worry about. First, representative democracy is indispensable, but it is in disaffection with the public. We see this, for example, by increasing the number of abstentions. I would also like to take this opportunity to say that you should pay attention to the working methods imposed in this House. The government's systematic use of emergency procedures effectively prevents quality debates. Secondly, social consultation is a pillar of our Belgian model of consensus. However, it is broken, because you are too much involved in an area where in the past the partners have shown courage and creativity. Thirdly, consultation with the Regions is at the worst and with your tax choices which pump financial resources to the Regions without any dialogue, this is not going to work out. Fourthly, there is a sense that people want to be heard differently. I have seen this again by the questions I have received for this debate. This is evident on social networks, in the growing number of petitions, in the success of citizen mobilizations. How can we give them voice and weight? This will be an important project to maintain social cohesion and strengthen this citizenship, which is and will always be the best bulwark against all the violence our societies are experiencing. [[Applause]] As far as the digital revolution is concerned, yesterday, Prime Minister, you referred to the digital agenda. Of course, I welcome your efforts and your ambition to have our country in the top 3 of Europe's most digitised countries. Of course! But at the same time, do you know that the majority of analysts, on the right and on the left, are finding that the digital revolution in motion, robotics, will drastically reduce the number of jobs - 45 to 50% of losses - that will not be compensated by new jobs. So we need to think about solutions for the future of our societies in more than moderate-growth economies where the labour factor is changing paradigm. What about jobs and wages? It is in this context that some have begun to reflect on the reduction of working time, of which I am with my partisan group, and for others, on the universal allocation. What in all these circumstances is the future of social security? This is, in any case, a subject which deserves a national debate which should bring together the social partners at least around the table! Finally, as far as the state of the world and of Europe is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, at international level, as we know, instability is at its peak. Daesch is present on all continents, outside Antarctica. Scattered conflicts resonate with each other. What is happening in Syria and the Middle East, what is happening in Turkey or Iraq, Ukraine or Afghanistan, each time has its own logic. But what many experts find is that these conflicts can degenerate and strengthen with each other, find a kind of common ground. French military expert Pierre Servent noted this, speaking of a general rise in fundamentalist ideas compared to those that advocate compromise, tolerance and otherness. He also cited Europe, where the strengthening of nationalist and extremist parties is a reality difficult to reconcile with the objective of peace. With regard to this challenge, I would say that you were hardly talkative: nothing on the strategic level of defence, nothing on the diplomatic offensive, nothing on the coalitions to be supported, nothing or almost anything on humanitarian challenges, or on development cooperation. You say that European integration is the cornerstone of your action in the face of what some call the asylum crisis. Our group has always called for a comprehensive and inclusive approach at European level. European solidarity in the face of crises must not be a choice, but an obligation. We cannot accept a two-speed European Union when we talk about human rights and humanitarian rights. We strongly oppose the will of the European right to choose the dangerous strategy of the scapegoat Schengen by reviving on every occasion the myth of the border and the fortress Europe. For our group, any attack on the Schengen area is unacceptable and the same should apply to all progressives and Europeanists. However, we have not heard anything about this in your speech. I find this to be a matter of concern. As for the reception of refugees. Yes, you opened new places, after you closed them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u34	I would like to comment on Schengen and what Europe should do. My concern is indeed that Schengen could be preserved as a very important monument in European unification. This presupposes that the other conventions are also respected. I am referring in particular to the Dublin Convention. If we speak of a unified Europe, then we can say that the external borders have been constantly moving. That is a good thing. Europe is getting bigger. So we are going to have new external borders. An instrument such as Schengen can only survive, with free movement across internal borders, if the external borders are adequately controlled. In recent weeks and months, I have rightly read a lot of criticism of Hungary, but what about Greece? What about Italy, which is actually taking a stroll in respecting the Dublin Convention? I would like to make it clear that Dublin says that asylum applications should be examined in the country where they arrive. That's not gonna happen. Mrs Onkelinx, I would like to make the point here: one cannot say on the one hand that Schengen must continue to be defended, but on the other hand that we are blind to the fact that we are opening the gate in crucial places. If one opens the gate in a large house, anyone can flow to the room of one's preference, that is the reality. Protecting the external borders in an adequate way is the Achilles tendon in the area of a unified migration and asylum policy. I hardly ever hear the left side talk about that. In any case, if Germany has said at a certain point that controls at some internal borders may be necessary, it was a direct consequence of the fact that some Member States within Europe that signed the Dublin Convention are taking this principle for granted. One can't do without the other. I always hear on the left the demand for a large form of generosity. However, I do not hear the consequence of asking the question what to do with Greece and Italy. We are pointing the finger at Hungary, and I do believe that Mr Orban has made appalling statements which I strongly condemn, but we cannot be blind to the fact that if Greece and Italy continue to open the gate, Europe will actually have no borders anymore. Mr Bossuyt, the former Commissioner-General, has said very pertinent things about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u35	Mrs Onkelinx, do you realise that in some countries, such as Greece, the Schengen and Dublin Conventions are not being applied or are not in existence?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u36	Mr President, if you will, I would like to address the Chief Interpeller, Mr Dewael, that I know how to be a true Democrat and a convinced European. I will tell him that, of course, all the conventions must be respected and that the solution must be found globally for all the problems at European level. But, admit it - as Mr Verhofstadt told the European Parliament - that these images of barbed wire and walls inside Europe have hurt our European values. The speeches of some political leaders speaking of strong Europe, constantly trying to reject solidarity towards others, have hurt our conception of an open Europe, welcoming the misfortune of others. Yes, we have to work! There is a need to combat illegal migration patterns better. You'll never hear me make another speech. Yes, it is better to really destroy the traffickers who manage the misfortune of others by putting their pockets in their pockets. It is a duty, not only moral; it is obvious! At the same time, we must advocate respect for conventions, such as the Geneva Convention, and stop with those discourses that are close to that of national or European preference. That seems important to me. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was coming to the reception of refugees. I was saying: yes, your government has opened new places, after closing them. You'd have to explain something to me. Earlier, in the small debate on the budget, you were talking, Prime Minister, about this "nominal balance" part that had been handed over to the media and not to parliamentarians. In this "nominal balance" section, there is a large amount – worth €350 million in memory – for the management of refugee reception policy. These seem to be additional costs. Prime Minister, I would like you to tell me why you did not include it in the structural measures. You'll explain it to me. Is that to say that you consider, for example, an end to conflicts in the short term? If so, please explain to us how. Of course, we are particularly interested. On the other hand, what we have seen is the mismanagement of the influx of migrants by your government. Maximilian Park has become its symbol. You were talking about values. Among them, isn't welcoming those who suffer in dignity at the heart of our European humanism? I take this opportunity to refer to the action of our military. You were right to salute their work and their courage. But the military must also be at the service of the people when a demand for civilians is discernible. Aid to the Nation is an essential mission of our army. We've seen too little of them in the crisis of reception. I would also like to ask if the government is maintaining its willingness to charge the defence services as part of the "great cold" plan to help the homeless this winter. We were alerted by a CPAS who received a preventive invoice. This is obviously unacceptable. Does aid to the Nation become paid? Will the municipalities soon have to pay for aid in the event of floods? What future in this perspective for rescue at sea or for the military hospital? It would be a sharp break in the army's ambition to be at the service of our people, a decision that would be a landmark and one that I strongly condemn. In addition to these projects there is obviously this obsession that must guide us, namely the eradication of poverty here and in the world. You will allow me to refer to Pope Francis who has this illuminating formula: "What we need is the globalization of hope against that of exclusion and indifference." Let us agree that the formula is beautiful but also that there is still work on the board! Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude on a note of hope. Yesterday, you spoke of values of solidarity. We have heard in recent times about the exodus of refugees, the statements made, and the statements made by your nationalist partner that hurt our humanism. To be a statesman, we must not run after the polls or encourage the fears of citizens to reap votes. We must be firm in all circumstances on the values that bear our democracy and give meaning to the beautiful word "fraternity". I hope that in this year of commemoration of the resistant Edith Cavell, we will remember what she said before she died, murdered by the enemy: "Think of me as a nurse who did her duty". Doing one's duty is what each of us must do to deserve the honor of being in this assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it will not surprise you that my analysis is somewhat different from that of Mrs Onkelinx. Taxshift 1 and taxshift 2 amount to 8 billion euros. This is the biggest fiscal reform since 1963, all of which comes from a so-called bickering cabinet, the concept that originated from the brains of a number of politicians. I'm telling you, it's not a bickering cabinet you're running, Prime Minister, it's a deed cabinet. You make decisions, not slogans, but actions. Congratulations on that. We do clean up the mess of 25 years of socialism. Mrs Onkelinx, you have just referred to le malade imaginary, but the country we inherited from you is not a malade imaginary. It's just un malade, nothing but that. We inherited a sick country from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u38	I tried not to do what you're doing, namely insult and caricature! My dear colleague, group leader, we often ask what the Socialists have brought to power for all these years. I could talk to you about a lot of things, especially in terms of solidarity and social security. They were obviously not alone in the manoeuvre. I salute all our partners who have worked with us. What I am most proud of is that this country has been able to rise to the world top of the countries of well-being, and that is also an achievement of the ruling socialists!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u39	Mrs Onkelinx, what socialism is, I have just seen. Mr Dewael has asked you a question and I have asked you a question, but you simply refused to answer those questions. That is socialism, and socialism takes that attitude. Whether it pleases you or not, we clean up the mess of 25 years of socialism. We are putting the budget in order and we are reducing taxes. You can laugh at that, but that's the way it is. The lowest wage will increase by 150 euro net per month by 2019. Everyone contributes to this, through the Cayman tax, the withholding tax, the stock exchange tax, the banking tax and the tax on intercommunals. Those are all taxes that Jan doesn't pay with the hat. Everyone gets better from the tax shift, because that will improve competitiveness. I fully share the Prime Minister's view: we are going for jobs, jobs, jobs, and that is very important. Besides, after a year of Michael's government, the National Bank says there's never been as much employment as it is today. That can count as a result.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u40	Mr Vuye, for that last point I would like to refer to the Prime Minister's speech, to the first page of his text, where he humbly admits that economic development in our country is below the average of the euro area. The Prime Minister admitted that in black and white, so euphoria and triumphalism, showing how strong the engine is now, I think is misplaced. The Prime Minister has shown more nuance in this than you have with your interventions so far. I would like to respond to your statement that it is a definition of socialism that does not answer the questions. That's a new one. I've studied political science, but it's never been in my manuals. I know you do not want to be a socialist, so you will certainly want to answer all possible questions. Well, then you can solve the mystery of the EUR 700 million. After all, you are the leader of the largest majority party. You are also trying to give that a place in your interventions because you know that you have a problem: people know that you are a party of the rich. That's why you're talking about capital taxes. Mr Vuye, can you solve the mystery of the EUR 700 million? I brought the table from July. Capital taxes amount to EUR 1.5 billion. The prime minister means the Cayman tax, which is logical, the real estate funds, the mini-speculation tax of Minister Peeters, the tax fraud, the withholding tax, and then it becomes creative with the dividend of Belfius, the National Lottery and copyright. There's 1.5 billion euros. Yesterday, the Prime Minister spoke of EUR 2.4 billion. So what's decided last weekend? Moreover, when we look at the government's presentation after that decision, tax fraud is outside the EUR 2.4 billion. They are looking for more than EUR 700 million. In your attempt to shake off the image of the rich's party, can you tell me what's going on with the 700 million euros? What happened, what capital taxes do you charge, what is in the 2.4 billion euros?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u41	I suggest you say three more times that it is all the Socialists' fault. You seem to need that. Without it, we can't debate. That must be said first, otherwise you will not feel well. When you were a member of the opposition, you have constantly confronted us with Eurostat figures. That's right. They're pretty objective. The Eurostat figures indicate that the number of jobs in one year has fallen by 33 000 in the government year. These are Eurostat's latest figures. When the prime ministers say jobs, jobs, jobs, you have to say that. That is contrary to the years before, where they have risen. Mr Vuye, this is the first year in five years that the number of jobs has fallen compared to the previous year. You can't tell me you're cleaning up the past. You have reversed the trend of the past, where jobs were added every year, which means that this year, for the first time, the number of jobs is falling by 33 000.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u42	Mr Vande Lanotte, I have written down your question. I will end with a clear answer to that later. Mr Calvo, if you had a little patience, but I know by now that patience is no virtue for you, and if you knew the legislation on national compatibility, you would know that the budget will have to be laid down by 31 October at the latest. At that time, you will receive an answer to all your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u43	A definition of Flemish nationalism is: one does not answer the questions. Mr Vuye, I know the laws and procedures relating to the federal budget. My group colleagues and I are very much looking forward to the concrete discussion of the federal budget, if we have to do so until the end of the day, with great pleasure. However, if the Prime Minister came here yesterday for all 150 Members of Parliament to talk about a historic capital tax worth EUR 2.4 billion and today refers to a table from July where there is a difference of EUR 1.5 billion, a difference of EUR 900 million, I have just spoken of it, then the majority must ask what happened. What are these capital taxes? What are the historic steps you have taken? If you do not, then image and observation remain that the N-VA is a party and the majority is one for the 1% of people who already have it very well, and that you do not have the courage to really initiate the shift. If you find it annoying that the N-VA is called a party for the rich, which is also my observation, then please answer that question. Tell me what you have done in the area of capital taxes, rather than replying that this will be settled in a back room in the parliamentary debate on the budget. No, that is the subject of a social debate, which must be conducted here and now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u44	Mr Calvo, you are confusing two debates. The debate on the budget will first take place in the Finance Committee after 31 October. Then we'll have it here in plenary. Now we are engaged in the debate on the State of the Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u45	Mr Vuye, you have 30% and 33 MPs. Such a group should be the driving force of our country, which provides all the answers to questions that live in society. I repeat my question and we will insist on it. If, as the Prime Minister said yesterday, you are taking a historic step on capital, something that has never happened, talks about EUR 2.4 billion and refers to a table with a figure of EUR 1.5 billion, then Parliament has the right to know what has happened in the meantime. What have you done with the majority to make the great capabilities a fair contribution? I don't want to wait until December. People were on the streets last week and deserve an answer to that today. That issue is on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u46	I could give a political answer to this. [[Tumult]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed to interfere with the speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u48	Now that I'm 60 years old yesterday, I think one should respect my age. I am not laughing at Mr Calvo's age either. I believe that the debate has reached an important point, because Mrs Onkelinx and Mr Vande Lanotte refer to what has been decided in the past in the field of taxation. Mr Vande Lanotte, you said that the politics we are conducting now actually cost jobs. I shall come back to that in a moment, but first I want to talk about taxation. We have the most progressive tax system in the world. I do not know if the name Dries Dequae and the progressiveness of the taxes mean anything to you. At that time we even came up with mechanisms whereby, for married people, income was simply added together. They were then taxed. However, due to the multitude of disks in our tax system, anyone who makes an effort to earn a little more, earn a little more or give the best of themselves, automatically gets into a higher disk. We don't think that's fair. Perhaps it is to some extent, but I should not be told that our tax system and its progressivity would not be redistributing. They're redistributing. I refer to the OECD reports, which show this in detail. As far as the fight against poverty is concerned, therefore, we have a tax system which is very social and fair. In the purple-green government, we carried out a tax reform and abolished discs. That's when we killed the highest discs. In fact, I notice that there are always liberals in the government when disks have to die. At the time, we did so together, with the socialists. The highest disks were killed at that time. Now it's about the 30 % disk. I am not being told that there are no capital taxes in our country. Rankings show that we are the frontrunner in the field of labour taxation, but we also have a lot of capital taxes. I am thinking of the withholding tax, the gift rights and inheritance tax in the regions and the property tax. You name it. I will give you a very clear and political answer, Mrs Temmerman. In the past, we have decided a number of things together in this area. However, with you in the government, we have also blocked a number of things that are not in my election programme.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u49	You've blocked our plans?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u50	With you, indeed. Do you really think that I would like to be so politically masochistic in order to prove today that a government without socialists will introduce more taxes on wealth, for which we are already in third place in the world? We won't do you that pleasure, will we? We're not political Christmas children, are we? Do you really think I'll measure my success in that? I listened to the Prime Minister very carefully. He has indeed said that a number of things are happening in the field of capital taxation. I'll defend that, too. The withholding tax is set at 27%. That is not in my party programme, but I am defending it as a global compromise. There's going to be a caiman tax. There's a bank contribution. There's gonna be a speculation tax. But there are limits to one thing and another. A wealth tax wasn't in my party program. A capital gains tax wasn't in my party program. A tax on added value wasn't in my party program. You have tried to achieve this for 27 years, and you have failed to do so. Now that you're in opposition, you're asking us to realize what's in your program. I say again that there are limits to political masochism. The proposed tax reform is good for those working. I'll give you figures you can't possibly oppose. Tax reform is also good for those who work. These are my two axioms: rewarding people who work and rewarding people who work. Mr Vande Lanotte, I have a figure. The Planning Bureau says that 167 000 jobs will be added during this legislative period. Moreover, many of these forecasts do not yet take account of the measures that have been decided on. In other words, we will see what the difference will be at the end of the ride. Because of the boost we will give the economy in 2016, and the strengthening of competitiveness, I am firmly convinced that the economic system will be able to do what we all expect from it, and that is creating jobs, creating jobs and creating jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, I must remind you of the agreement. I must also remind Mr Dewael of the agreement that we would only interrupt the speaker in the chair. I refer to what was agreed at the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u52	Mr Dewael, you have made a really good effort to shift the essence of the debate. The essence of the debate is not about for or against the reduction of charges or for or against job creation. For these matters you will find a fellow member of the Socialists. The essence of the whole issue is who pays for this reduction. You say that with the liberals in the government there have never been so many powers, but do you know the truth? Never before have taxes been so increased with this right-wing government. Never before has the water bill gone up like this. Never before has the electricity bill gone up like this. This is the truth. You are putting off the discussion because you do not want to admit that you only allow one part of the citizens to pay for this reduction. The great abilities leave you untouched, contrary to what you stand here calling out. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u53	Mr President, I know I have a habit of standing here for a long time, but I would like to point out that I have only spent 2 minutes and 27 seconds of my own speaking time. The focus of the tax shift is on strengthening purchasing power and strengthening competitiveness by reducing charges. That is to say, the government is going for less gross and more net. The burden on labor goes down. We also restore competitiveness in a real way. With the first tax shift, the index jump, the wage freeze and wage moderation, the historical wage handicap has been eliminated since 1996. With the second tax shift, we will continue to reduce the historical gap before 1996 and move towards 10% with neighbouring countries. As the Prime Minister has said, and I would like to confirm, that pay handicap will soon be a nightmare of the past. Effective decisions have also been taken for SMEs and the self-employed. There is a doubling to 8% of the investment deduction, at the request of the N-VA. There are measures for start-ups, with a full exemption from the RSZ contribution for the first recruitment. There is the extension of the RSZ discount for the recruitment of the second to the sixth employee and there is a gradual reduction in the social contribution of the self-employed from 22 % to 20.5%. This also shows very clearly that this government rewards everyone who works, and that this is also the case for the self-employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u54	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u55	Mr Hedebouw, the express condition is that you address Mr Vuye.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u56	I am addressing Mr Vuye. I won't make it too long. I only have 15 minutes to speak. Mr Vuye, you seem to establish an automatic link between gifts to businesses, such as reducing taxation and reducing social contributions, and creating jobs. I see that there is a broad consensus in Parliament to make that automatic link. I would like to remind you that the same arguments were used in this same Parliament in the 1980s, but they did not ultimately produce jobs. However, I will not go back to that. Let's look at reality. For example, what happened yesterday in Zwijnaarde? Coca-Cola cut 122 jobs at 400. 25% of the jobs are out of there. Coca-Cola has received around EUR 29 million in gifts. This means that for Coca-Cola the tax rate on its profits in Belgium is about 8%. You know that it is officially 34% in Belgium. It is therefore a gift of a few tens of millions of euros. What happens to a company like Coca-Cola? 122 jobs are deleted. Just look at the examples that can be seen in Flanders today and you will see that this automatic link does not exist at all. That's where the deception is, of course. Parliament has no guarantee that the billions - almost EUR 5 billion - do not simply go to companies' dividends. That is the basic error of your reasoning. We in the PvdA believe that this means that Belgium will not emerge from the economic recession in the coming months and years, Mr Vuye. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u57	Thank you for your question, Mr Hedebouw. She's very interesting indeed. In your question, you refer to the '80s. I'll go back a little further. I'll refer to the '70s. There was a time when your ideas of economic planning were followed, namely in the Act of Terwagne on the planned economy. The only thing that was established at the time was that one plan was approved in this House and that the rest of the legislation was completely quadruple. I'm sorry, but your system isn't working, and it's been proven here. We effectively do not believe in any kind of economic feasibility. What we do believe in, and you do not believe in, what is your right, but it is also my right and my duty to defend another model, is that one should...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u58	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u59	Mrs. Temmerman might be able to listen. We believe that we must create the conditions that encourage enterprise. If we succeed, we will also create jobs and people will be at work. That will be, and I will use your terminology for a moment, an effective emancipatory force for the people who get work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u60	Mr Vuye, I am very sorry, but your plea for working people is rather harsh. It is true, and that may be said for us, that this government reduces the burden on labour. But what else did you decide? An index jump, so a tax increase for people who work. It removes part-time workers' wages from those who make efforts to be partially active rather than opting for unemployment. The pension bonus, for people who want to work longer, is cancelled. And I can go on like this for a while. You can try to hang up here that this is the coalition for the hardworking Flame, for people who work in sweat, but you're not. Those people pay that reduction themselves, they get those invoices presented, and they get those invoices even presented here and now, while the reduction in wages, of which we don't get the figures, comes at speed only in 2018 and 2019. So don't try to hang up the image that your party is the new party for the hardworking Flame, because you're not. You abandon that hardworking Fleming over and over again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u61	Mr Vuye, it would be better if you just answer the question, you start in the 1970s, but I simply asked you this. Yesterday, a company in Flanders dropped 122 jobs. That's a problem for a government that talks about jobs, jobs, jobs. In front of us 122 jobs disappear, in a company that has received about 30 million euros as a gift. Can you just answer the question? How can you still stick to a link between giving gifts and creating jobs? That was the main item in the Prime Minister's speech yesterday: "We give 5 billion euros to gifts and therefore we create an environment that will create jobs." The opposite is happening in front of us. Can you respond to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u62	I will be happy to respond to that. You call it giving gifts, but we don't give gifts, we create conditions that make it possible to take effective action. This has happened far too little in recent years in this country. We create conditions so that entrepreneurship becomes interesting again. To the regret of those who envy it, Mr Hedebouw.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u63	But those circumstances were very good for Coca-Cola, weren't they?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u64	I read that you seem to want to impose an obligation on companies not to fire people. I read that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u65	Were those circumstances good for Coca-Cola?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u66	That is not what Mr Hedebouw is about.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u67	What do you mean it's not about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u68	I say that you want to impose obligations on companies that go so far as to nip it in the bud in this country. That's the consequence. Mr Calvo, one way or another you have my text in your possession. I have sometimes had the impression, in other circumstances, that there are micro-organisms in my desk. However, I have just come to your point. Mr Calvo, the tax shift is also a tax cut and is not only paid by taxes, as you claim, but also by a redesign of an obese government, which saves EUR 700 million. That is an important point for us. For years, the value-for-money index has shown that citizens in Belgium are getting far too little in return for their taxpayers' money. We want to get rid of this too. Here too, we want to make a change. It is therefore with great pleasure that I have heard the Prime Minister declare that the government's seizure is falling further towards 50%. The N-VA keeps their word. We went to the elections with the slogan 'Works rewards'. We also reward who works. Unfortunately, for the first time in history, I repeat: for the first time in history, the lowest wages will rise faster. That's a scoop. That's something new. I should like to congratulate the government on this. The tax shift will also ensure that one employee in the two employees will thus have 50 % net of 100 euros left. The tax shift will also ensure that the lowest net wages will be 150 euros more. For the highest wages, this amount is between 60 and 80 euros, phased between 2016 and 2019. This is done through the slope of flat-rate professional costs and through the removal of the 30% tax disc. It is indeed a very important measure of tax relief. In addition, the tax-free allowance is increased. Another fact, which is also an important aspect of rewarding works, is that the starting limit of the 45% load disc will be increased. So this is a real consumer bonus that is being set up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u69	Mr President, I have just heard Mr Vuye talk about less gross wages and more net wages and a consumer bonus. Mr Vuye, I assume you are aware that, as a result of more net wages, citizens will have to pay much more. What the current government has decided on at federal level is an important cut in the budget of many citizens. When we look at the actions of the same Flemish government parties at Flemish level, at the level of increasing the daily budget of ordinary citizens, we cannot avoid this finding. You come here to tell a story that in life it's only about a little more pay, but you forget to tell people about that little more pay you're talking about. We must also see this, because the minutes of the Council of Ministers state that future increases in wages will be implemented insofar as they are financially feasible. So we'll see where they land. If people are left net, we'd love to see that, but the consequence of government policy at the federal and Flemish levels is that people with their monthly wages will have to pay much more for services they get from the government and the private sector, through VAT increases, through higher childcare and water bills. Everything's gonna be more expensive, so please don't tell me people get net more. At the end of the month people will have net less to spend. That's the story the government forgot to tell, but that's the real story that people in the streets feel effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u70	Mr President, I would like to add a few more points. I have to follow Mr Vanvelthoven completely. The government communicates that people get 100 to 150 euros net more to go shopping, so to speak, but does not say that they will have to pay multiples at the cash register on all the consumer goods that are now making the government more expensive. I would also like to talk about two other elements. You quoted the 30 % disc that disappears in the personal tax. However, I have read that there has been no consultation with the Länder on this matter. However, this measure affects the budget in Flanders. The Flemish Prime Minister already responded that he has no idea the size of the well. So why hasn't there been any prior consultations before taking that measure? Do you already see the size of the well created in Flanders? I have a second specific question. You mentioned a lot of measures, but in the list you deliberately or unconsciously forgot the speculative tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u71	He's gonna be here in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u72	Okay, I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u73	Mr Vanvelthoven, I know what you mean, but let us make it concrete. The increase in VAT on electricity, for example, will cost a family about 100 euros per year. The tax shift means 1 200 euros a year per worker. So the proportions are somewhat different from what you are describing. Mrs Pas, I would like to answer your question later. I will return to that later in my text. I will follow the chairman who whispers to me to do it later. I am now at 4 minutes and 38 seconds, Mr President. The net wage increase is not a vague promise. People feel that immediately. Next year, minimum income will improve net 83 euros per month and middle income 57 euros per month. Of course, we would have liked to have done so immediately instead of being phased out. That's pretty obvious. We would have liked to have made that full net wage increase now. However, we must also be responsible and take into account the state of the country, which we inherited, with the malade we inherited, and not the malade imaginary. We are faced with a country where private job creation has stopped since 2007, where there are only subsidised jobs, where the public debt is above 50% and where we are on the European accused bank for the budget. So we have to take that into account. We must show responsibility. That is why we are introducing the net wage increase in stages. Again, that will be palpable from the first year on and the net wage increase will only increase. The tax shift is also a social tax shift. In the debate with Mrs Onkelinx, reference has just been made to the wealth envelope that is applied 100%. In addition, an additional envelope of EUR 50 million has been released for an additional 2% increase in living wages and for the lowest pensions. That is an important point for us. We went to the elections with in our programme, among other things, that the social minimums had to evolve towards the European poverty line. This is an important step in this direction. Yesterday, the Prime Minister repeatedly stressed that the tax shift also serves to create jobs. If we manage to create more jobs, there will be more prosperity and more resources will be available to help these people too. I have just stressed that the tax shift also attracts non-work-related income. I was talking about the Cayman tax for companies, the taxes on intercommunals, the speculation tax, the stock exchange tax, the banking tax and the withholding tax which rises to 27%. Again, those aren't taxes Jan pays with the hat. In addition, there are other sources of funding. There is an excise duty on diesel but at the same time there is a reduction in the charge on petrol. There is an increase in excise duty on alcohol with a focus on spirits. There are excise duties on cigarettes and roll tobacco with a focus on roll tobacco. There is also the health tax. That is a bit laughed at, but here an important start is being made. Mrs De Block quite rightly stressed this morning that this is not just about sugars but also about acids. So that does have a responsibility. In addition, the sector will be consulted and the government will submit a detailed proposal for the following years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u74	Mr Vuye, you know that this government is probably the only one in the world to levy a sugar tax on products that do not contain sugar. You were right to say that this is a laughing matter. The Minister of Health himself admitted that she was caught in speed, that a gap had to be closed and that the so-called health tax was introduced for that purpose. I agree that the Minister thinks it is with a plan on health, but that this should be used in this way is really something. I would also like to say to the CD&V colleagues that I fully agree with Mr Vandeurzen's question that these funds would partly benefit prevention. If that had been put forward, we could have believed this health tax, but this way it is crazy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u75	Mr Vuye, I am sure you will agree with me when we have to acknowledge that criticism of Coca-Cola and of the sugar tax is unjustified. One cannot correct a 200-year-old socialism disease in a year. You will undoubtedly agree with me that the government should occasionally levy taxes, but above all make very heavy savings for the healing process of that disease that has been dragging on for 200 years. I may be overreacting, but we're not blind for that. You will undoubtedly agree with me that yesterday the Prime Minister said that we are optimistic, but not naive, that things like Coca-Cola are very bad and that we are not blind to that, but that we must first take the necessary measures, that we have taken them and that we are now on the right path.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u76	Mr President, I am sure Mr Vuye will disagree with me. Mr Vuye, you refer to so many years of socialism. I think we can all be a little proud of the fact that yesterday the Red Devils succeeded in placing us first in the FIFA ranking. I mean, this is fun for everyone. We are, in a way, world champions there. However, this government is world champion in introducing a sugar tax on something without sugar. You're gonna have to explain this to me. You are the first government in the world to succeed in levying a tax on sugary beverages containing no sugar. You need to explain to me what this has to do with the big difference, the big change you're advocating. You need to explain to me what this has to do with so many years of socialism.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u77	Mr President, I will answer Mrs Smeyers' questions first. Mrs Smeyers, I very much agree with you and can only answer your questions in full. The questions put by Mrs Jiroflée and Mr Bonte. It's very easy to talk about the sugar tax here. However, it is about a health tax. That's something completely different. That nuance is completely different. It is important, however, to include other products, which also contain harmful substances such as acids. I also said it's a start. This has already had consequences, because Mrs Crevits has reacted immediately to the Flemish level. It will start negotiations to get sugary drinks from the vending machines in secondary school. In any case, this is a very positive result of the federal government's initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u78	Mr Vuye, that is not the point at all! It is about this being introduced without a plan, that Mrs De Block did not even know that she had to introduce a health tax. This tax has served to close a hole. Now quickly a plan is connected to it that is rattled on all sides and contains loose ends. I hope this will work out because I am really concerned about the health of our people. It is clear that no thought was given to this health tax, which simply had to close a hole and is therefore only healthy for the state treasury.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u79	Mrs Jiroflée, you are very angry, but I do not think you have listened to what Mrs De Block said. You're talking about a plan that contains all kinds of holes and loose ends. Mrs De Block has simply announced that she is launching a consultation with the sector. You can't argue with that, can you?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u80	I am not against that, Mr Vuye, but you must understand that Mrs De Block's arguments were not very convincing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u81	Forty-six minutes, Mr President. Now I will answer Mrs Pas's question. Mrs Pas, of course this tax shift has implications for the Länder. N-VA is well aware that it is also very positive for Flanders, because Flanders gets the policy it has been asking for for years. That is why we are convinced that we must certainly implement this tax shift. For the rest, the sixth state reform is now under way. Ben Weyts said here, as then a member of the Chamber, that the next Flemish government will be a saving government. If you ask me whether I think it is normal that the decisions we are making here have implications for the Länder, then I answer that I do not think that is normal, because that is not federalism, that is just Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u82	Mr Vuye, my question was not whether you think that is normal. My question was whether consultations had been held beforehand. You know that these decisions affect the Länder. Quite specifically, Flemish Minister Vandeurzen has already asked whether some of the so-called sugar tax will flow to the Länder. Will there be compensation, since no prior consultation has taken place? That was my question, but you didn't answer it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u83	Mrs Pas, I can answer that. Again, you must also read the press releases. Yesterday, Minister De Block and Minister Vandeurzen issued a joint press release. This morning, Minister De Block announced that she was launching consultations. Since she herself is not responsible for prevention, the consultation with Flanders should start. Mr President, on the budget, we keep our word. We are following the path agreed with Europe. We are achieving a structural improvement of 0.6%, which is the largest effort in the euro area. I have, of course, been criticised by Mrs Onkelinx for the tax regulation, and I would have expected that. However, it is strange to get criticism from people who have butter on their heads. The current regularisation is about a rate of 36%, rising to 40% by 2020. The rate of the previous regularisations was lower, i.e. only 35%. In addition, only one declaration could be made during that period. In other words, if you have butter on your head, you should also be aware of yourself. I would now like to say a few things about the refugee crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u84	Mr Vuye, before you begin, Mrs Temmerman wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u85	Mr Vuye, if you are referring to things that have happened in the past, you must tell us all about it. The previous regularization was intended to stop and then it was decided that no regularisations would follow. However, your government is now going through regularisation again. So you're right, but you tell it completely. Not only pick out what you can serve, but tell the full story. I shall repeat your comments on socialism. You have just said that in 2007 the public debt increased again. Is that because of the Socialists, Mr Vuye? It's increased because we had a banking crisis. It's increased because we've been through an economic crisis. It has increased thanks to the socialists, because we had to help people not to put them in poverty, unemployment and support. This has been done thanks to the socialists, but not the crisis caused by bank speculation in 2007.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u86	Mrs Temmerman, I have of course been used to it for a very long time, about a year, that you are wrongly quoting me. You are very happy to do that, you are doing it consistently and you are doing it very well. I used the year 2007 in one context, to say that the private job creation had stopped in this country since that year. I did. I now come to the refugee crisis and, of course, I would like to address myself to Secretary of State Theo Francken. A year ago, in the hemisphere, he was wronged and offended by a hysterical PS fraction. The entire N-VA group was still accused of racism by an eminent member of the cdH, not present at the moment. A year later, it appears that Theo Francken has become a very respected Secretary of State. Theo Francken is in Flanders in fourth place of most popular politician, for which by the way congratulations. That doesn't surprise me. Theo Francken's policy works. There aren't any people sleeping on the street right now. The courts do not impose high periodic penalty payments on the government. No hotel rooms should be rented. What a difference in policy between the policies of Theo Francken and those of Mr Courard in 2010! The difference between the PS and the N-VA cannot be greater than at that point. We also note that the number of asylum applications is falling, while the neighbouring countries remain under pressure. That's not surprising: the pre-care system is working. The limitation of registration to 250 per day also works. The detachment campaign in Baghdad is working. The decision stop for requests from Baghdad also works. It's no wonder Theo Francken has become such a popular politician. I can also only observe that the refugee crisis is ultimately managed by three N-VA ministers: Jan Jambon, Steven Vandeput and Theo Francken. I think we can only congratulate them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u87	Mr Vuye, Mr De Vriendt wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u88	Mr. Vuye, you know the saying of your own praise stinks, don't you?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u89	The praise is for Theo Francken, not for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u90	You don't belong to the same group?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u91	He's not in my group. That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u92	I would like to make a small comment on the story of glory that you are hanging up here. I have every respect for the Secretary of State. I respect everyone in this life. I hope, together with everyone else, I suppose, that the government will tackle the asylum crisis in a good and, above all, human way. However, I would like to draw your attention to two points. Firstly, it was Theo Francken, who further reduced the number of shelters, when all UN reports predicted a higher influx of refugees into our country. The number of places was 23 000. Theo Francken took it down to 16 000. Then there was a refugee influx, followed by panic football. Secondly, under Courard, at the PS, people slept on the streets and under this government, so to speak, no longer. What was the tent camp in the Maximilian Park in Brussels? That tent camp was a direct result of the government's decision to limit the number of registrations of war refugees to 250 per day. Only then, when the Prime Minister drew the file to him, did they build a full shelter in WTC Tower 3. So don't come here and say that all the glory comes from the Secretary of State. He's seriously missed the ball at least twice. There are positive points in his policy, but also negative ones. It would please you, should you mention those negative points as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u93	Mr De Vriendt, you know as well as I do that there were not only refugees in the Maximilian Park, but mainly sans papers. That's something completely different. The pre-care service organised by the Secretary of State does indeed work. As far as your comment on panic football is concerned, I am completely ignorant of football. I will not explain this to you, because I really am not competent to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u94	Mr Vuye, I would like to talk about your incense vessel and the praise trumpet, which you rightly or wrongly use, for the N-VA excellences. Firstly, I have noted that at that time none of the other groups applauded. That's odd. On the radio this morning I hear a mayor of Open Vld expressing criticism that should be taken to heart. I would like to know the opinion of the government, of the Secretary of State, on the reaction of the mayor to the very irritating police, four people, around an asylum centre in Koksijde where there are now 100 people. As a signal, it can count. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's reaction on this. After all, the mayor belongs to the majority. I am quite right to hear the mayor complain that it would be much better, both for managing the asylum crisis and for supporting society, if we do what we also advocate at European level, in particular a fair distribution across all municipalities in relation to their support. I think that's absolutely true. I will not deal with lists of reactions from mayors, especially from the majority, who are particularly negative when asked to organise shelter. I understand that the mayor of Koksijde is a good friend of Mr Tommelein of Open Vld. The mayor states that there are risk derivatives and that there must be police.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u95	Mr Bonte, can you finish your questions to the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u96	. It's my last question. He pointed out that there were risks associated with the collective organisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u97	He's not here. He can't defend himself. You're talking about the mayor. Shut up about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u98	Is that the censorship committee here? Mr Van Quickenborne, as long as I am here, I will use my right to speak as a Member of Parliament to say what I have to say. It won't depend on you what I'll say here. What I want to say is that I am addressing the Government of the United States of America to the effect that there may be security risks. Mr Vuye, I agree with you that before deciding where a reception centre is to be located, an analysis of the OCAD on the threat is required. I hear decisions are being made on new asylum centres. People are already lobbying where they can go. I am in favour of a fair distribution, but I would argue even more in favour of submitting that decision to the OCAD in advance, so that a fair threat analysis can be carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u99	I would like to say that, of course, everyone has the right to address the government in the course of the debate. The purpose of the interruptions is, however, to address the speaker. In the meantime, I note that the government is asking for the floor, and I cannot refuse to do so. I shall give the floor to Mr Francken and Mr Tommelein.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u100	Mr President, Mr Bonte, I am particularly pleased that Vilvoorde wants to do his part, as I have said. There is no easy situation in Vilvoorde. Everyone knows that there are few cities where we have to work so hard to get that society back on its feet. I greatly appreciate the fact that the asylum centre in Vilvoorde is opening up and that you are acting constructively as mayor, you know that too, and I have no difficulty in saying that. There are a lot of mayors here in the room and some of them I have called in the last few days, because we are constantly looking for places. We are developing a compulsory distribution plan, a distribution plan imposed on the municipalities. There's another meeting this week about a number of models. This was introduced in 2011, with an amendment by Yvan Mayeur, but never implemented by a royal decree. We are now working on this royal decision, but it has to go to the Council of State, which needs its time. There must also be political agreement on this, which is a sensitive issue, and everyone knows it. So it's gonna take some time. Meanwhile, 250 people come in a day, those people still have to get their own bed, bath and bread. In any case, therefore, we have a period of time to open up additional asylum centres. This compulsory distribution plan may be a solution in the longer term, but it is not immediate. We ask a great many of the municipalities and have already asked a great deal of questions. We have made a voluntary appeal to the municipal authorities for 1 600 places. Last week I consulted with the governors, both the Flemish and Walloon. Almost all municipalities do something and do something extra. There is still a handful of municipalities in Belgium that currently do nothing or do nothing extra. That's actually impressive. Mr Bonte, we will reach those 1 600 places this week. Mr. Bonte, you're mayor. I'm a mayor myself. I'd rather ask the municipalities on a voluntary basis than make it compulsory. The local authorities must already have so much of the higher boards. We'll make it. It's just not gonna get us there. 1 600 places, that's two weeks of influx. They'll be full by then. It's going so fast that we're just constantly looking for places. The government is likely to get through this mandatory distribution plan within two or three weeks. Then there is the Council of State and the rest of the procedure. Hopefully this will be completed by the beginning of next year and we will be able to implement it effectively. The voluntary is also important, however, because the municipalities want to do a lot, all the municipalities, any kind of attitude the mayor has. As for the very irritating police, I've read that, too. Mr Tommelein has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u101	I'm not going to make any statements about that. Mr Bonte should know that I am strictly following my orders in this government. Mr Francken is responsible for that dossier. I would like Mr Francken to do his job in this as I am responsible for other dossiers. In fact, I think Mr Bonte's comment on my friendship with certain people is totally inappropriate and irrelevant. Mr Bonte knows very well that the mayor of Koksijde was elected on a cartel list with other parties, it was not a pure list of Open Vld. He knows very well. That doesn't matter, by the way. Mr Bonte, you are insinuating that I have a very good friendship with someone who makes statements that I am not responsible for. I follow my orders, I am responsible for the matters in the government I am responsible for. I am consulting with Mr Francken, but for the rest we are dealing with our own dossiers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u102	Mr. Bonte, you looked at me but you asked Theo Francken your questions. That's a little hard. I do not know how many refugees the mayor of Ostend already has on his territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u103	There are no secrets. We made an agreement yesterday with Mr Francken on an additional quantity. Ostend does its share above average, which is not a problem either. We made an appointment yesterday. Mr Vuye, such questions are suggestive. If you want to ask real questions, just don't suggest anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u104	I can only congratulate you on that, Mr Vande Lanotte, because that had not happened so far. Maybe that was the secret you were keeping from me. With regard to these requests, Mr Bonte, I would like to point out that so far it has not been about recognised refugees but about people who are in a procedure. For this, 250 places must be sought every day. That's incredibly much. I admire the fact that the Secretary of State succeeds in finding these places day after day. That's in itself a heyday piece. I would like to highlight a number of key points on asylum and migration policy. There is the withdrawal of the residence and expulsion of Syrian fighters and radical imams, there is the extension of the possibility of withdrawing the protection status, and above all, a very important point, there is the significant increase in the return of illegal criminals to their country. For this year, October, we are already at 1 048. Last year 625 people arrived for the whole year. So it may well be that there will be a doubling at the end of the year. This is a very important fact. It also points out that the policy of expulsion is effective. In that debate we sometimes run a little ahead, that is indeed the case. When we talked about pushbacks, we saw that there were negative reactions. What do we see now? Europe itself recognises that this will also be a necessary tool in tackling the asylum crisis. I have no doubt that the spirits will ripen when we talk about a separate social status. It's the same thing. We're a little ahead, but in the long run, the spirits will evolve and ripen. To conclude, I would like to highlight some of the issues that are important for the N-VA Group. For example, there is the renewal of the management contracts of Infrabel and SNCB. Certainly there is also the guaranteed service. We are tired of working people being held hostage by railroad strikes. There is also guaranteed service in prisons. Belgium has been hit on several occasions by the Committee on the Prevention of Torture. It would be good if that were to end. Minister Vandeput's Strategic Defence Plan 2015-2030 is also a particularly important point for my group. There is the Action Plan Workable Work. The maintenance and continuation of a strong security policy, under Minister Jambon, is also important. I saw this morning that the screening of asylum seekers has already produced 12 hits. This indicates that this policy is indeed efficient. Minister Van Overtveldt's anti-fraud plan is also important for us, as is the fight against poverty and the National Child Poverty Reduction Plan of Secretary of State Sleurs. I will conclude with an answer to Mr Vande Lanotte's question. Indeed, according to the National Bank, there are now more people at work than ever before. I can only say congratulations to Michael's government for that. The indicators for future growth are also particularly good. Temporary work is on the increase and temporary unemployment is less used. That promises for the future. That gives hope for the future. We can also see that labour costs are falling in relation to neighbouring countries and that in the long term this will still be a nightmare of the past. For that, too, I can only say congratulations to the Michel Government. We can also see that GDP is on the rise, and I can only say congratulations to Michael's government for that too. The High Employment Council says that 18 000 jobs will be added in 2015 and that this will reach 94 000 by 2017. Those are numbers that can count. The unemployment rate is predicted to fall below 8%.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u105	I don't think you're answering right now. We all know what the National Bank says. You're talking about the prophecies. I've asked you for two things. Firstly, Eurostat is not talking about predictions, but about findings. At the end of June 2015, according to Eurostat, there are 33 000 fewer jobs than last year. That's the first time I've seen you in a long time. Even during the banking crisis, there was no reduction in the number of jobs. That is the case at the moment. That's not a prognosis, it's a determination. You say our GDP is growing. Of course, but our GDP is growing slower than the European average for the first time in 2015. That has never happened until 2014, in ten years. Growth in the ten previous years was higher than the European average. That's two red flashing lights. You have a lot of time left, but today, for the first year, those are two negative flashes in terms of growth and employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u106	Mr Vande Lanotte, you are actually making an excellent plea for the implementation of the tax shift and the effective transition to job creation. I would like to point out that the National Bank does not make forecasts, but makes observations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u107	Mr President, Mr Vande Lanotte, I would just like to point out that I am here in the Chamber on 28 September 2015...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u108	You have to tell me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u109	I speak for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u110	Mr Van Rompuy, I am all about attention. I'm listening to your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u111	Mr Vande Lanotte, I have here the economic messages from the Credit Bank of September 2015. The Credit Bank works with Eurostat statistics, which clearly indicate in writing that 50 000 net jobs have been created in our country since autumn 2013. They also indicate that the unemployment rate fell from 8,9% in July 2015 to 8,5%. So I don't know what you're talking about. I am not talking about previous governments or the current government either. I would just point out that, according to Eurostat, 50 000 net jobs have been added since autumn 2013. I also do not play in the game: it has been achieved by the current government or by the previous government. CD&V is continuity. CD&V indicates that 50 000 jobs have been created since 2013. There's just some numbers being debited that no one can control. I will also reply to Mr Calvo later. After all, I have looked at the amount of EUR 700 million mentioned. In such a debate, we must also be able to quote the real figures on the basis of texts. That's all I wanted to give you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u112	Mr President, I would like to make a constructive proposal. Would you please get the figures on growth and employment published by Eurostat and give them to everyone? Mr Van Rompuy, you are dragging all kinds of things into this, but the only thing I have done here is to argue that the number of jobs dropped by about 30 000 between June 2014 and June 2015. The employment rate has fallen. That's not in my report. This is in Eurostat's figures. Request the latest Eurostat report, which dates back to June 2015. I do not want to discuss this. Just ask the Chambers to hand out the statistics in question. For the sake of growth, I don't have to get those figures. After all, the Prime Minister himself has said in truth that there is a little less growth than the average. That's a statement. For the jobs, however, I ask that the figures be given. You can call in the Credit Bank and anyone, but I have pointed out that the number of jobs has decreased from 2014 to 2015. Ask Eurostat for the figures so that we have them here. I'm not asking any more than that. I have also noted that these are red flashing lights. I haven't even noticed that the figures are definitely dramatic. I just want to warn you that the policy pursued so far has not led to more jobs, unlike the years before when the number of jobs has risen continuously. That's all I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u113	Mr Vande Lanotte, I respond to your proposal. I would suggest that everyone look at the report on their screen. One can ask for it in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u114	Mr President, I am almost at the end of my speech. Mr Vande Lanotte, you speak of red flashing lights that are not dramatic and you call them orange flashing lights. The red probably tempted you. In any case, I repeat, according to the High Employment Council, 94 000 jobs are added and unemployment falls even further than the figure quoted by Mr Van Rompuy, which is below 8%. I can only conclude by wishing congratulations to the Michael administration. I think the hashtag forward michel will be a very popular hashtag.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u115	Colleagues, it's almost 12:15. There is also a Conference of Presidents waiting for us. I suggest we end the morning meeting now. We resume work at 13:30.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u116	Mr President, I am not leaving, so this is no problem for me. However, many colleagues have relied on the summons. For this afternoon, it is indicated at 2.15 p.m. and they have made their arrangements. Could we start at 2:00 p.m.?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u117	I remember we agreed to stop for an hour. We're stopping for an hour and a quarter. I therefore propose to start with Mr. Ducarme at 1.30 p.m. This will enable us to move the work forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u118	I wish Mr. Ducrame had intervened in the presence of a public...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip073x.u119	I'm lifting the session. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, 14 October, at 1.30 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Wednesday 14 October at 1.30 p.m.
