ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister, what a happy surprise on Monday morning, listening to the information on budgetary control! It looked like an Easter egg before the hour! On the method: fast tuning, displayed consistency and tweet bisounours. And then, on the bottom: we reduce the effort to be made for the state administration, we increase the means to support employment, and finally, we're going to look in the pocket of diamond dealers and in the basket of tax fraud. Almost a Syriza recipe before the hour! Unfortunately, of course, reality is far from hope. Yes, there are positive elements, such as justice or security; there is still a long way to go, but we have already come a long way. On the other hand, we soon saw that you had worked very superficially and without any serious consultation. For example, to lighten your €750 million bill, you have adopted a catimini methodology, which refers the effort back to the Regions. I will simply say: our country is fragile, we must not forget it. I think you acted like an elephant in a porcelain store, and I'm afraid that leaves lasting traces to the detriment of the people of our country. Second example: you are announcing – and this is good – very ambitious measures for employment, but we still don't know which ones. And above all, there is a total inconsistency between the number of jobs you are advocating for and the amount of savings you are recording in your fiscal year. We also saw that with a monster cap, you presented a huge gift to Antwerp diamondmakers by making it look like a tax. I would say: what madness in an area that weighs more than 55 billion euros and buys its tranquility for less than 50 million! The hard-working people, the workers, the pensioners to whom indexation is taken, the small companies that pull the devil by the tail will appreciate this gift to an area that has been pointed at in the SwissLeaks. I think it's shameful! Then my questions. First of all, with regard to this tax, I would like to know whether or not you have consulted the opinion of the ISI. I say that because, at the time, the Liberals had already introduced this measure. We took her away and there was a murderous opinion from the ISI. Then I'd like to know what fly stole from you. This is not an ambition for the country, since relations are terribly deteriorated. There was no budgetary need. We have seen blurry, delayed effects, unspecified measures. Where is the desire to redirect certain orientations towards more social and fiscal justice? With the diamond tax, it is indeed missed! You said, "mission accomplished." What, then, is this mission that rekindles the social and community fire at the heart of this country's policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u3	Mr President, Prime Minister, the series we have been through in recent days on fiscal adjustment is not worthy of a federal state that respects its federated entities. Nor is it worthy of a government that respects Parliament. The Minister of Budget is running away from his responsibilities. We still haven't got the slightest committee meeting to make the figures clear! We are postponed to three weeks. Only then will the Budget Minister come to committee to provide the necessary insight into the reality of the figures. Basically, Prime Minister, what we are criticising in this conclave and this budgetary adjustment, beyond your scornful attitude towards the federated entities and parliament, is the choice that you have made to maintain the course of fiscal austerity, as if nothing were happening outside, as if you were totally indifferent to the social grunt, as if you were not affected by last Sunday's citizen mobilization. Of course, you were in a castle, in this case in Val Duchesse. It was therefore difficult for you to hear the demonstrations in the centre of Brussels. What these people are demanding, like us, environmentalists, is more tax justice. You say you're going to put in place a concession scheme for Antwerp diamondmakers. They demand, and we demand, more social justice, and you are further reducing the resources available for youth employment by 80 million. They demand more quality jobs, and you answer: more flexibility. They demand, and we demand, more environmental justice, and you do not answer anything! On the environment, again, no commitment is made in this budgetary conclave. Prime Minister, therefore, tell me what, in your budget work, is in itself a response to all these legitimate demands that have been expressed and that will continue to be expressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, your budgetary control could have come from the Di Rupo government. At least that was the comment in De Tijd this week. And indeed, there is no change. No matter how loud Mrs Onkelinx comes here to fill in, there is no difference with your predecessors. After all, you have prepared your budgetary control on the basis of the classic Belgian recipe. You rely on payback effects and additional growth, you rely on one-off income with an intervention on the liquidation bonus, you pass invoices on à la Crombez and there are also the premature more revenue on combating fraud. In the meantime, you are hardly carrying out structural reforms. At the time of purple, colleagues from the N-VA and CD&V were right to criticise the fact that budgetary windfalls were not used to convert into structural measures. Today, however, these parties are doing exactly the same with you. There have been budgetary windfalls, but in the meantime our public debt is 107 percent of GDP, and you are not even giving any impetus to phasing it out. The invoice will be transferred to the next generation. The bill of this budgetary control is also transferred to the Fleming. After all, your budgetary control was largely saved by the symbol of that Belgian compromise art, in particular the Finance Act. That is a complex monstrosity that one person in this country can understand and calculate in detail. That says enough about its democratic content and transparency. You have coldly informed the Flemish Government, without any consultation, that it will now receive EUR 400 million less. Mr Prime Minister, you were very pleased, as you clearly saw at the press conference, although you actually had no reason to cheer, and the Fleming even less, because the invoice is being pushed forward. No matter what level the Fleming pays tax at, it comes from one and the same wallet. Hence the following questions. Do you think it is proper that you simply transfer the budgetary problems to Flanders? Why don't you use a long-term vision? Why don't you start phasing out that towering public debt? Why do you charge the next generation with such heavy invoices?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u5	Mr Prime Minister, like the other speakers, I should like to express my surprise at the fact that the Budget Minister did not want to come to the committee yesterday and did not come to the plenary session today. Last Monday, he did have time to inform the press. I think it is important that when he informs the press, which is of course his right, he should at least have the courage to inform Parliament and to discuss it here. In substance, Prime Minister, I believe that budgetary control was an important test of whether the government, after about five months of protest from many sections of society, takes that protest seriously. Unfortunately, we have to note that this is not the case. Unfortunately, we have to note that the budget has been modified. I've listed a number of numbers. It was announced that it would be a tough exercise, because 1.2 billion euros had to be found, which would cost blood, sweat and tears. However, you got out quickly. You wanted to send the message that you had a strong government and a coherent government. Yesterday, unfortunately for you, that plan fell apart in the Flemish Parliament. Between the three Flemish government parties the gap turned out to be deep. Suddenly, 750 million less is paid to the Regions. I have a question, Prime Minister. Is it true that the EUR 750 million comes suddenly from a different method of calculation? I understand that suddenly, a week ago, your government decided to calculate that in a different way? I'd like an answer to that. Furthermore, the yield of the caiman tax suddenly appears to be 4 times larger. Minister, you said in the plenary session of 6 November that there would be urgent work to be done and that Minister Van Overtveldt and his team were ready. Five months later, we did not even see the beginning of the text, but the revenues are suddenly estimated to be 4 times larger. The proceeds of the liquidation bonus would amount to EUR 230 million more, which would suddenly be 3 times larger, without any additional measures being taken. But where's the tax shift everyone's waiting for? I found the tax shift, I must say. I have seen a tax shift coming, not as we all hoped by reducing taxes on income from labour, but by reducing taxes on the diamond sector. I find that creative of the government! She finally found a tax shift! However, this tax shift means that there will be a tax cut for the diamond sector, but no tax cut for the people who work, although we were all waiting for it, CD&V in the lead. Prime Minister, what is the reason why the government does not answer all these questions of civil society?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, budgetary control does not rewrite the budget and even less the coalition agreement, which was and has now been the case. Prime Minister, you have pursued the line and framework of this majority, namely to focus on jobs with social progress, in this budgetary control quickly and discreetly, and we thank you for that. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a majority in favour of passing the invoices on to future generations. Two weeks ago, we had a debate here in plenary where murder and fire were shouted by colleagues from the opposition about the deficits in social security and where it was said that there would be bloodshed in social security. The largest Flemish opposition group then said that there was blood flowing into social security, that she didn't want that and that she was counting on CD&V. Well, the people have been able to count on us, there has been no savings in social security in this budgetary control. There was discussion and criticism in this Chamber of the great justice plan of the Minister of Justice. It was said that there was no financial basis for this. Well, this majority has provided funds for this in this budgetary control. The invoices from the distant past are paid, the minister can start with a clean slate. Ladies and gentlemen, budgetary control is not a bad thing. For the federal level, the actualisation of estimates of tax revenues and their distribution among the various governments is indeed a windfall. However, let it be very clear, because I have heard a lot of inaccuracies about this in recent days, from various quarters, nobody has taken anything away, there are only a lot less revenue for all governments due to low economic growth and deflation, and the flat rate for the 25.99 % region has also fallen. Yes, it's annoying, for all governments, that those figures may be late, but I regret the statements of some excellence, and certainly of the Walloon Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u7	[[(...)!]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u8	Let Mr. Verherstraeten speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u9	[[(...)!]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u10	I call Mr Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u11	I regret the statement that the federal government is a colonialist of those who have negotiated and approved the sixth state reform. Mr Prime Minister, we could have avoided discussions, because the special financing law is very precise and also stipulates that we would agree on the method of calculation and estimates by means of a royal decision, in consultation with the Council of Ministers, but also with the regional governments. That's exactly what the law says. I understand, Prime Minister, that consultations had already taken place on this subject. What is the state of play in this consultation? What's the status of that KB? When's that KB gonna get here? I know the Minister of Finance... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, it will not go forward if Mr Verherstraeten is interrupted over and over again. Finish, Mr Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u13	The discussion should not overshadow the success of this budgetary control process by focusing on jobs in the hospitality and e-commerce and on the growth jobs, after consultation with the social partners. Prime Minister, what is the timing of these measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u14	Mr. Chair, Prime Minister, the number of Popeye that we just attended, which the CD&V needed after last week's hard week, will not prevent us from doing our job of controlling fiscal adjustment. If the majority were so comfortable, it would have the courage to immediately convene a Finance Committee to allow a detailed technical analysis of its budgetary control. Perhaps it is because you have not yet completed your budgetary control that you are running away from this meeting with the democratic control of Parliament, Prime Minister. Since you don't assume... [[brouhaha]] , Mr. Flahaux, I know that impotence screams are part of the political game, but I thought you were more worthy than that. More fundamentally, you will still have to explain to us first how, suddenly, your own fiscal revenue forecasts at the PPI, because that is the point of debate, suddenly decrease by 3 billion, so that the regions' shares are reduced by 750 million, if we take into account the mechanisms of the financing law. That's the first real question. This is your first forecast error compared to your original budget. Secondly, it is up to me, but you are going to tell me whether it is confirmed or not, that already at Tuesday's meeting, your experts acknowledged a first error in the estimated amounts of the IPP revenue reduction for the Walloon Region and the Brussels Region and that this error would amount to 110 million. Can you confirm that you are already reviewing the amounts? It also comes to my mind that you would have estimated, in any case, that your experts would have estimated that there were 190 million to be carried over from the 2017 budget. In short, it is clear that you have not assumed the role of prime minister of a state that must not slide towards the confederalism to which your partner of the N-VA wishes. You should have done the work of conciliation first before concluding your budgetary control. You did not, because you were obliged, after the disastrous week you had last week, to try to regain your hand. This is part of the political game; no one has been deceived by this ploy. But what you have called into question, what you have weakened, is federal loyalty between federated entities. A respected Prime Minister first calls the ministers-presidents and offers them the figures – you only sent them last Thursday – before accepting a common methodology. I'm just asking you one question. Do you agree to submit your budgetary control and, in particular, the reduction of the means available to federated entities under the control of the Higher Finance Council where all entities are represented and can validate your figures or not? I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, mijnheer de eerste minister, I must deplore a political fact which seems to me rather serious: last week I saw a Prime Minister supposed to represent all the Belgians, all the inhabitants of our country, welcoming the fact that his budgetary adjustment was closed, that the Belgians were not going to suffer any negative impact and that the budget was balanced. Yet you know perfectly well that you have just passed on the 750 million hot potato to the federated entities! There is a problem, Prime Minister. Normally, you are the guarantor of the interests of all Belgians, but for a moment you have forgotten it and you have been delighted to have technically completed your budget. It is no longer your business, it is those of the other organs of power. I'll say it, Prime Minister. I was in Liège last night at the union events. That's where I was supposed to be. They don't like being part of the N-VA, but that's where I was supposed to be. Dear N-VAS, I also took part in the Hart over Hard demonstration in Brussels on Sunday. There I was. There's my place! What did I hear there? We have to listen. I heard the same idea. People don't care if austerity is imposed on them by Europe, the federal government, the regions, the provinces or the municipalities! The people are all the same; they do not care if the saving policy is imposed by Europe, the federal level, the regions or the municipalities. People are tired of austerity policy all at once! Let me be clear, un saut dиindex hurts as much as an index jump and une augmentation des tickets the bus hurts as much as a price increase of the bus tickets. For people, it's the same! I would like to make it clear to all the parties that voted for the sixth reform of the State and to those that apply it, like the N-VA, that it is clear that they have voted for the establishment of a federalism of competition and austerity. The sixth reform of the state is only for one thing: to bring the regions into competition. I therefore call on all the parties that have voted for this reform to return to this type of measure which will do only one thing: to divide more and more the Belgians and the workers of this country. Prime Minister, from when exactly did you know that it was EUR 750 million? When did you pass that information on to the regions? What will you do to ensure that the savings policy you are imposing today at federal level is stopped and that the regions themselves should not impose savings policy by the various measures you are taking? What will you do to get the wealth where it is? I am, of course, talking about a capital tax so that the workers, the workers and the servants of our country do not have to pay savings policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u16	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you have concluded this budgetary adjustment. We will have the opportunity to revisit the choices you made. The point on which I would like to ask you today in the two minutes given to us is this €750 million bill that you are getting rid of and referring to the regions. Prime Minister, for the past 48 hours, I have heard you say that this is the application of the special financing law and the sixth reform of the state. The time has come now to leave the postures and to have clarity. I have three very specific questions for you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken up the proposal for a special law that we voted for in the Sixth State Reform. Prime Minister, the special financing law provides for a royal order to be made to define the method of calculating the amounts of the PPI after consultation, of course, of the Regions. You have consulted the Regions. You obviously did not agree with them, but the special financing law does not provide for an agreement with the Regions to take this royal order. Prime Minister, why didn't you take this royal order? If this royal decree, which would have validated this stage, had been there today, we would probably not be there. My second question still concerns the special financing law. The Special Act provides for all calculations of the amounts to be paid to the Regions. The 2015 tax year is based on the 2013 tax year results. These figures have been known since June 2014. The Special Financing Act provides that these figures should be used but also clearly transmitted to the Regions in the second half of 2014, in this case. Prime Minister, why didn't you provide these figures in a timely manner, as required by law, to achieve the 2015 initial budget, and not late, in March 2015? My third and final question concerns the enormous divergence in the estimation of the amounts of personal tax. The Plan Office provides an estimate of $2 billion higher than that of the Minister of Finance. There is therefore a gap of 2 billion between an independent body, a reference body, and Minister N-VA of Finance. How do you explain this gap between estimates of personal tax amounts, which is a major element in this 750 million bill that you refer to the Regions? Prime Minister, I ask you three specific questions and I expect courage in your answers!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u17	First of all, Prime Minister, I would like to congratulate you warmly. I've read a number of things about you. I've read that you can't be in charge. I read that you would not be the real Prime Minister, but the cycling season has opened and you responded with the pedals. You have taken the climb of budgetary control as a real climber, and you have done so so quickly, on one weekend, that no one can doubt your sprint qualities from now on. I should like to congratulate you on that. In addition, we are also bumping into a structural error that my group has long referred to, in particular the zero transparency of the special financing law and the far too limited fiscal autonomy of the Regions. Moreover, we have come to a system that no one understands. I'll try to explain. How complicated did they make it? There's the federal personal income tax. An autonomous factor of about 26% is deducted from this. On this reduced tax, the Regions may raise incentives of 35%, on which a slight variation is possible. This means that two calculations must be made for each Belgian. That makes it one federal scale and three regional scales. Who invents such a system? Who approves such a system? In any case, it is not my group. This is not my question to you, Prime Minister. It's a thought. I hear that some parameters are contested, mainly in French-speaking Belgium. Could you give us a little more explanation on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u18	Mr President, Prime Minister, are you surprised that the opposition does not recognise the extremely positive elements of this budgetary adjustment? You must not and we must not be! Let us be clear, it is in principle that the opposition is trying to undermine this budgetary adjustment. His members could have told you: "Mr. Prime Minister, congratulations! Your budgetary adjustment respects the European path in terms of European commitment." They could also have congratulated you on the method given the lack of strength and stress before adjustment. Some in the opposition said that this adjustment was a test. As you can see, this majority is very solid, very, very solid! They could also have congratulated you for not having received social security. They could have told you: "Bravo, no extra taxes, no extra taxes!" They could also have added: "This is a government that opens up more to employment, to economic activity, which will support Horeca, which launches a start-up plan and supports e-commerce!" They could have told you that you are honouring this government's security commitments. They could also have told you, in fact, that never before, in a budgetary adjustment, have we seen such an important effort to eliminate the backlog of justice. They could have told you all this, but they won't tell you, as a matter of principle, because they don't object to the substance. We have heard a number of statements in relation to our parliamentary system. In this regard, we have had a long debate in the Conference of Presidents. Well, Mrs Fonck, it is customary for the Finance and Budget Committees to meet after a budgetary adjustment on the basis of all the notifications. We have made a commitment to carry out this meeting as soon as possible, as soon as the notifications are on the table. Finally, what lacks dignity – forgive me, Mr Laaouej, but yes, you are sometimes unworthy in your remarks – is to imply that we would not apply the special financing law. No, it's not a political decision to send the ball back to the Regions. No! Prime Minister, confirm that we are applying a calculation clearly and strictly and that this is not a political decision. The best demonstration that this is a technical, scientific application and not a political choice is the following: do you really believe that our Finance Minister N-VA would attack Flanders? Of course not! And this is scientific evidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u19	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to remind you of the intention of budgetary control. A budget check will check whether expenditure is under control and whether the overall budget is still on course. Firstly, it is a good thing that all the ministers of your team are also sweeping their own doors in this exercise. If everyone turns on their own doors, the street is clean. What I would like to stress today is that the Ministers of the Open Group did not, in any way, put forward any significant expenditure in this exercise. In other words, rather than commenting on the left and right in the press, they have done their homework and have ensured that the budgets initially allocated to them are respected. That is an objective truth to the regret of whom it envys, Mr Nollet: the Ministers of Open University held their posts in this exercise, in this budgetary control. Secondly, it is important to stress that budgetary control can also show greater ambition. That's what you did. At a time when the economy seems to be re-engaging, when you have actually been able to increase growth and adjust it to 1.2 percent, it is important that budgetary control also includes measures that effectively strengthen the economy, which support the trend. Everything that is good for the economy, everything that is good for economic growth, has been supported by my group. I refer to the tax support for start-ups, I refer to the opportunities that will finally be given to e-commerce in this country, I refer to the measures that are being developed which will allow people who want to work longer and will be rewarded for that. That is good for our economy and these measures are also included in this budgetary control. Thirdly, Prime Minister, a budget must remain on course. This means that the basic legislation governing the financial relationship between the Federal State and the Länder is respected. I hear criticism of some banks. I can understand why the N-VA is not happy with this legislation, because they did not approve it. I would just like to point out, Mr Vuye, that you have accepted this legislation as a basis in the formation of this government and that we have reached an agreement that would not be discussed for five years either. So you must respect these rules, even if you have not approved them. The eight groups of the Butterfly Coalition have approved the state reform. Therefore, I cannot understand why people are now reacting negatively to the fact that calculations based on this legislation in some regions may lead to results that are less desirable. It's always the same. I heard Mr Magnette yesterday. If the application of a law is good for the interests of the PS Group, then that law will no longer be violated. If the application of a law or a calculation resulting from such a law is less beneficial to the interests of the PS Group, that law should be amended. That's a logic I can't understand. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is an objective method of calculation which has been used, and I would just like to point out that it is a question of personal taxation and that the reduced income from personal taxation was not only accepted by the regions but also by the federal authorities. That is what we wanted, to the regret of whom it envied. That financing law gives greater fiscal autonomy to the region's regions. That is a choice we have made. If that yield is disappointing, then that system will not be thrown away. We have broken with consumer federalism and dotation federalism. We have advocated in the Butterfly Agreement an adult, responsive federalism. I have one more question and then I'll finish. Yesterday PS and sp.a asked about the 750 million euro invoice. Mr Crombez asked questions yesterday in the Flemish Parliament about this EUR 396 million. He has said that Flanders can no longer do any more, in the areas of Well-being, Education, etc. Then I'll ask the federal sp.a. Group where she'll look for it. In federal Belgium? Will you do that in social security, in pensions? (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u20	Taksen, you say. I'll be back in a minute, if you'll allow me. You said "Tasks." That's the motto of the socialists:mo re taxes, more taxes, more taxes . That is certainly a clear answer to the question. If you want to get out of that within your own group, Mr Vanvelthoven, then I would advise you to decide who is to make what effort. Please contact Mr Crombez by telephone. His number is 0478/21.27. And the last two songs I'm not gonna give 'cause otherwise he's gonna be bothered too much. Prime Minister, my group is ready to transpose the legislation, which is indeed the result of this budgetary control, into Parliament as soon as possible. My question is when will you come to Parliament with these drafts?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u21	Mr Dewael, I must say that we have seen a good Prime Minister, with great conviction and leadership. That's what our country needs. As far as form is concerned, not content, I congratulate him. Ladies and gentlemen, budgetary control is, of course, an important political debate, but even more importantly, a fundamental social debate. I therefore regret, along with other Members of this House, that the government does not have the courage to give this week's explanatory statement to the budget, which many people from the opposition have asked for in Parliament. What I regret more, however, is the spectacle of the last few days. An important social debate has turned into a debate between institutions, on the financing law. Mr Vuye has come here to teach about this. Is that Magnette's money, Bourgeois' money, Michel's money? Honestly, I don't give a shit about that, totally. In our country there is only one kind of money, the money of people who work, of people who undertake, of people who contribute their hard-earned pennies and who are waiting for reforms in our country. (Luid applaus) I will remind you in a moment of your applause, Mr Dewael. Saying you stand up for people who work and do business doesn't mean you do. In your case, that is very clear. In our alternative budget, it is quite clear that we do, Mr Dewael. My question is what budgetary control has actually brought about for the people who work, undertake and are struggling today. What's the result for them? There are, of course, some concrete measures that we welcome. Of course, we're okay with the Justice Department finally getting a little bit of oxygen. However, Mr Verherstraeten, what has the budgetary control done for the family whose husband or wife wants to work part-time and for which you have decided to cancel that benefit? Nothing. What has the budgetary control done for young people who really ask that job creation be central to government policy? Nothing. What has the budgetary control done for entrepreneurs who are begging for a real tax reform, for a fair corporate tax, for a shift of burdens? Nada. Nada delivered that budgetary control! I therefore have two important questions for you, Prime Minister. First of all, why are you so persistent? Last Sunday, 20 000 people argued in the pouring rain with a clear message: it can be different, our country deserves better. What are you doing? You lock yourself in a castle and just keep going. The necessary adjustment is not possible. Secondly, I have a question about your tax measures. The majority are trying to sell tailor-made diamondry as fair taxation. You'll have to dare. The caiman tax, hooray, he's already paying 50 million euros this year. I have the answer from Minister Van Overtveldt yesterday in committee to the question of how many billion euros of offshore constructions there are. I quote Minister Van Overtveldt: EUR 57 billion offshore constructions, excluding Luxembourg, the United States and Switzerland! And you dare to put forward a budget in which these people are asked for EUR 50 million. How dare you? My question is, therefore, when will the tax reform take place? You've missed them now. (Protests from Mr Jambon) Mr. Jambon, be honest. Tell them you'd rather get the money from SMEs and working people than from the Cayman Islands, Switzerland and Luxembourg. Be honest about that! My final question, where is the tax reform? It's called for, it's begged, it's called for. Please execute them. It's high time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stick to the facts and explain what the agreement which was concluded in the context of the budgetary adjustment is all about. We have worked in a classic way by taking into account the report of the monitoring committee as a starting point for reasoning, a report supplemented by the report of the Higher Finance Council. We have made the political choice to ensure that the effort is made both on revenue, by valuing a certain number up to 50%, and 50% on expenditure. A few strengths are political choices. Let it be clear that our political intention was to control the budget without new taxes for the citizens. We have chosen to do so, and that was a clear political choice. [[Applause]] Another political choice is respect for our European commitments. This is at the heart of our coalition agreement. We intend today to take responsibility for current expenditure and not to transfer it to future generations. This is clearly confirmed by this budget check. Together with respect for our European commitments, we want to strengthen and improve the coalition agreement. You know that job creation is a key point for us. Well, we will work hard to give job creation every opportunity and we will create a context in which those who are unemployed today will be given the opportunity to find work tomorrow. For us, these are not non-binding comments, but decisions and commitments. We take responsibility for these important and crucial steps towards the future. This is a matter of responsibility. I put very simply and quickly, not to be too long, some points out. On the one hand, we do want to work with the Minister of Employment to give the chance to young people who, too many today, are unemployed, to get a job tomorrow. We are taking decisions on this and will work with social partners to be able, as quickly as possible, to achieve substantial effects, starting in 2015, on this important issue. It is also a matter of will, determination and responsibility. On the other hand, we measure that the horeca sector is an important sector, that there is a potential for jobs and the ability for people who are not working today to get jobs in this sector tomorrow. We are putting in place a battery of measures – for example, the development of flexijobs, more capacity for overtime – that we want to implement in partnership with the sector. It is in this sense that the minister concerned will open this platform provided for in the government agreement to achieve this commitment, which is very important to us. Another good example is e-commerce. Why are there so few opportunities for e-commerce in Belgium today? We note that our neighbouring countries have taken measures to give an opportunity to grow in the sector. It is our conviction that it must be possible to make progress in this area too. It is in this sense that we are trying – always wishing to discuss it with all the partners – to make decisions in order to increase the employment rate in an important sector. Belgium is at the heart of Europe, and we are convinced that we can play a key role in this area. Finally, we made choices. Thus, we have decided to make further efforts, through specific measures, in the fight against tax and social fraud. I'm quite amused by the words about the "diamant" tax. Indeed, whether you like it or not, the budget will have EUR 50 million more revenue than under the previous government. Why didn't you? Why did you wait?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u23	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u24	Mr Laaouej, rudeness does not make you more convincing! I would now like to turn to the debate on the EUR 750 million. Many questions have been asked in this regard. I'm going to tell you things, just, exactly as they happened. At the end of last week, before the weekend, we received information about the EUR 750 million. I hear insinuations and words that do not correspond in any way to reality. Under no circumstances would there have been a mysterious meeting of the Council of Ministers to touch on the figures and projections. As has been the case for many years, it is the relevant department of the Ministry of Finance that analyses and implements the updates of the figures and projections on the basis of a text that some here are particularly familiar with since they have been on the initiative, the financing law. I tell you this with a lot of gentleness and kindness: it is not because you are now in opposition and you no longer like this law, that you have initiated, that I will violate it! I am also replying to Mr Verherstraeten and Mrs Fonck, who have asked very fair questions about consultation under the funding law. As early as December, we took the first steps to put the royal decree in question in consultation with the federated entities. The government's intention is to validate this royal decree very quickly. Similarly, when there is a political agreement on budgetary control, in the days and weeks that follow all regulatory and legal deliberations at the parliamentary and government levels to implement the decisions that have been taken. With all our strength, we want a quality dialogue, a respectful dialogue with the Regions. But this quality and respectful dialogue presupposes that everyone respects the rules of the game, in the letter and in the spirit. Complying with the rules of the game means making the funding mechanisms work. I must note that the government agreement has taken the view that this sixth reform of the State is going to work. I must note that there is no political will or majority to amend this sixth reform of the State, and therefore to amend the financing law. In this context, we will continue to make progress and move forward. Finally, I hear that many of us are calling for a change of course, a change of policy. I think, and this is a conviction, that there are two possibilities before us. The path of resignation, of renunciation, of those who consider that a context cannot be created so that there is more employment, more economic activity and therefore more capacity to finance social security. And then there is another course, with a strong parliamentary majority. With a strong parliamentary majority, we want to offer a positive future to our citizens. That's our choice. I thank the majority for their support.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the speakers have followed each other and I would like to address one of them. Mr Verherstraeten, I have heard very nice sleeve effects but, strangely, not a word about what has been achieved in the diamond sector. While in the streets of men and women are fighting for a government that decides a policy with more social justice and tax justice, you are giving an unimaginable gift to diamond dealers, to those who have been pointed at in the SwissLeaks. Is that the sense of social justice on the CD&V? Mr Group Leader, I find that avoiding in your speech what the government has done with the diamond tax, giving them a privilege, is simply a shame! We have had a lot of fiscal exercises and controls here. We know that every time, there are actually blurries here and there, back effects that are fixed. We're rounding the corners. But I have never seen such an exercise with such vagueness in the measurements. I would like to take this opportunity to say that, in terms of social security, there are almost 100 million savings. If this is nothing to you, I have another assessment on the subject. There are unprecedented returns and, in the tax field, measures with securities and absolutely nothing next door. My conviction is drawn from the adventures we have with the federal government. There's not a day without a fight. You can't take it away from us. It is enough to open the gazette: in the federal government, it is continually a fraction against another. My conviction, even today, is that you wanted to put a film of varnish on the division of the federal government by suddenly pointing out a common enemy: the Regions. I come to my third conclusion. The PS does not want to go back to the funding law. So what did the Prime Minister say about carabistyles? No, we don't want to go back to the funding law! We are simply asking for federal correction, respect and loyalty. You know, our federal country is particular in the sense that, overall, there is no hierarchy of standards. There is no primacy of federal authority over the Regions. Therefore, this country must be managed with caution. As Prime Minister, you not only have to manage the federal government, but you also have a coordinating role, a legal or moral obligation, as the case may be, to promote good cooperation between the Communities/Regions and the federal government. You have chosen, Prime Minister, to be clanic, to be arrogant and, by acting like an aggressive hussard, Mr Michel, you make it difficult for this country to manage globally at the expense of our fellow citizens!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u26	Prime Minister, you have received the congratulations of the N-VA Group Leader, echoing what others outside this chamber have already said. You're a great man! You also received almost spontaneous applause from the majority. If this continues, you will soon believe in what you say! We must be careful not to go too far. By paraphrasing Mr. Ducrame, we, the environmentalists, would have liked to have been able to tell you that the figures are clear. We wish we could have told you that everything is transparent, that it is the application of the special law that we voted for. We wish we could have told you, but that's not possible because you're referring to the monitoring committee. We have received the document from the Supreme Council of Finance to which you refer. You are also referring to the FPS Finance document which we are asking for in committee but which you are refusing us. Give it, if you are so sure of yourself, that we can see that it is the application of the special funding law. We would have liked to have been able to tell you that the measures taken in your budget adjustment were positive. If there was a change of course, we would be the first to applaud spontaneously. That is not the case, unfortunately! One last word for Mr. Peeters. Deputy Prime Minister, we would have liked to have been able to say that the commitments you have made have been fulfilled. You have heard the Prime Minister explain vaguely, except for a very precise figure, that efforts have been divided into half of revenues and expenditures (50/50). Let me just remind you of your statement of December 20, 2014: "There is no longer any way to get on the side of spending cuts, we are at the bone!" Fifty per cent of the effort was spent. None of your commitments have been fulfilled!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u27	Minister, you are very proud that there have been no additional taxes due to budgetary control. It would be lacking as a leading country in the world in terms of tax burden. You're saying the citizen won't feel it? Of course the Fleming will feel it! The transfers continue and now they will be allowed to pay the Belgian invoice via the Flemish Government. Budgetary control has been a move-over and delay operation. Of the EUR 1.4 billion you had to look for, almost half, EUR 690 million, is being passed on by partially uploading buffers and by transferring invoices to the Länder. When discussing the sixth state reform, in particular the funding, I said that it would prove to be a disillusionment for Flanders. This has already been demonstrated by the budgetary control and the impact of the Finance Act. I hear the criticism of the N-VA's colleagues on the funding law. Unfortunately, I rarely hear them across the street, in the Flemish government. There has never been any opposition to the sixth state reform and that funding law, no conflict of interest has been filed. The Flemish government stood by and looked at it, as passive as or even more passive than a giant sloth in its hibernation. If you now agree, both here and in the Flemish government, to carry out the sixth state reform with the financing law loyally, good-heartedly, slaves, then you should not come back and complain. I fear that Mr Verherstraeten is quite right: budgetary control has indeed, unfortunately, not rewritten the coalition agreement. I would then ask the coalition partners not to announce this in future with tough statements, as if they were. This creates high expectations for citizens and only leads to disappointments and a great ex post anti-climax. You have a second seat after the Easter holiday, if you'll talk about the tax shift. I urge you to talk about a transfer shift; that is what people are waiting for.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u28	Mr President, we have just been reminded of what budgetary control is for. Thanks to Mr Verherstraeten. It's just about updating the budget. There is no question of renegotiating or rewriting the coalition agreement. The next thing is a little crazy. What does the coalition agreement say? In the meantime, I have heard all the majority parties declare that the tax shift is in the coalition agreement. For the sake of clarity, Mr Dewael, a tax shift is more taxes on wealth and less taxes for people who work. I repeat: less taxes for people who work. Don't ever forget this again! On the tax shift, on which there seems to be an agreement in the coalition agreement, the following. In this context, I quote two quotes of 24 January by the president of CD&V, Mr Wouter Beke, in De Tijd. The first is as follows: "It is important that the tax shift be discussed in March and not referred to the Greek calendar." In De Standaard, the same day and still Mr Beke's, a second, even clearer, and I quote: 'The debate will land in March'. For the N-VA and the Open Vld, this discussion is separate from budgetary control, but in the facts it all coincides. If there are parties who want to talk about the tax shift in the morning and do not let me talk about budgetary control in the afternoon. The tax shift is included in the coalition chord and according to CD&V it will come in March. There is now budgetary control, but the important element of the coalition agreement, which should not be renegotiated, is not included. The CD&V seems to have missed a unique opportunity to get the tax shift negotiated. After all, the favor regime for the diamond sector is not in the coalition agreement. Despite the fact that the coalition agreement was not renegotiated, Mr Verherstraeten, this government has created a regime of favour for the diamond sector with this budgetary control. You have given a favor to those who have asked for this and all those who are on the streets, and have been asking for months now that there will be fair taxes with fewer taxes for people who work, leave you in the cold again today. The Socialists deeply regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u29	Mr President, allow me to replicate some Members who have addressed me personally before going into the Minister's reply. Mrs Onkelinx, the majority, quite rightly, allows the diamond sector to pay more than we did together in the previous legislature. That's not embarrassing! My colleague, Mr Vuye, is not going to upset me by the fact that I also felt a little addressed when he asked who would think of such a thing. Now, Mr Wathelet and I have been able to come up with this together with eight formations, and I am still proud of it. After all, if we want certainty for the regions, then we have to work with donations. I don't want to reverse that clock. I am in favour of autonomy and autonomy, of course, means more responsibility. Let me not talk about the past anymore, but about the future. Discussions between various governments, as we have experienced over the past few days, are better avoided. I now turn to the Minister for Finance, who is responsible for this. Prime Minister, I am also addressing you because you have the ultimate responsibility in consultation with the regional governments. I call for the speed of consultations to be speeded up and for the Royal Decree to be speeded up so that we do not have to have these discussions in the future. Good deals make good friends. I was also asked what the current budgetary control will do for jobs. Well, the 2015 budget will provide additional jobs, including the reduction of the burden on people. Budgetary control adds to this by providing additional jobs for the catering industry, additional jobs for e-commerce and additional opportunities for new start-ups. Prime Minister, there will have to be more jobs. That's your next challenge. You have already spoken about it and there have been agreements in the majority, including on timing. I'm referring to the tax shift. The tax shift will be discussed purely. With this shift, we will aim for a more equitable taxation, and the reduction in the wage burden will give rise to more jobs. It is your challenge to work towards the end of the parliamentary year. I invite you to do so as quickly, as efficiently and as discreetly as you have done with budgetary control.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u30	Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mr Dewael. It is the second week that he fills the deficiencies of the majority with a personal number, not without talent, I recognize it. But when he says that the job was done, I think that, given his seniority in this House, he should remember what that was Mr. Guy Verhofstadt's method. When the latter came to parliament after budgetary control, he immediately submitted a detailed, quantified, complete note with all the immediately verifiable budgetary data. Nothing like that today. "See you in three weeks." The Minister of Budget is not even present. He's an actor in a Labiche play; we've known that for a long time. Mr. Jamar has other appointments at this time. We know that. But today we have no other indications than the few sheets you have given to the press. It's not serious. I hear that, of course, you did the job seriously. I will have to explain to you, for example, why the fight against tax fraud is suddenly going to bring more revenue than you provided for in the original budget, while the ISI has come to tell us in Parliament that it lacks the means to fight tax fraud. I will have to explain why the fight against social fraud will suddenly bring much more to bear when the Court of Auditors has made it clear in its opinion that it lacks the means to enable the social inspectorate to carry out its tasks. Read the report of the Court of Auditors! Of course, Mr Van Quickenborne, all this is only a weakness of the Court of Auditors, which deserves no consideration on your part! How can you claim to have done serious budgetary work, when you are not able to give your estimation method, nor do you claim to have done so much to evaluate job creation? At least Mr Verhofstadt said that tens of thousands of jobs would be created. You, nothing, because you're in the uncertainty of your own numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u31	Mr President, Prime Minister, you have repeated once again that no one will feel anything from your measures, that no one will have to pay any more taxes, that there are no problems for the citizens of this country, but you cannot say that, because you do not know what will happen to the EUR 750 million. I repeat, you cannot guarantee that once again workers will not have to pay for this crisis. You can't say that here in front of us, because you can't give that guarantee. Prime Minister, if something is well indicated by the figures we have received – the few small figures – it is that today, in the policy that is being pursued by this government, there is no return effect. It has already been seen at the social security level where a hundred million had to be collected; this is now seen with the decline in PPI revenues. It's a liberal fable you're talking about. You are thinking, with the measures, of creating employment, but there is no evidence that you are creating employment. On the other hand, what is real, what we see in the figures today, is that there is a decrease in the receipts of the State, and therefore measures to be taken! I would like to end with a round of applause for the excellent work done by the diamond club. Mr. Jambon, you're no longer president of that club. I would like to give a round of applause to my fellow Members of the diamond club who are here today. You really did a very good job. Your lobbying activities have worked so well that the government has only raised EUR 50 million in this sector, while the sector is EUR 50 billion heavy and has asked for that law. Colleagues who are members of the diamond club, let me give you a big round of applause.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u32	Prime Minister, I hate to overbid. It was for this reason, of course, that I asked you specific questions in order to give you the opportunity to enlighten us and to respond rigorously. It must be noted that my questions remained unanswered. You don't want to make it clear. I understand much better why we have not been able to debate in committee on this 750 million bill sent to the Regions. Your attitude only worsens and accredits suspicions. I left you the benefit of the doubt. It is no longer permitted. Indeed, Prime Minister, it is now very clear that you have violated the special financing law. The latter provided very clearly for a royal decree. You said: "We'll take it later. You're right, Mrs. Fonck." Prime Minister, it was before the 2015 budget that we had to take this royal decree! You also violated the law in the sense that it is explicit about timing to disclose amounts from personal income tax revenues. It was six months ago that you had to pass on these figures. When you apply the law, you do it completely. We don't choose the items that set us up to partially apply it. That's not all. You did not say a word to explain the loss of two billion euros between the estimate of the Plan Bureau, which is an independent reference body, and the figures of Minister N-VA of Finance. Two billion euros evaporated in nature. It's very clearly manipulation! It is of course easy to close a budget adjustment so quickly when it is carried over to others. In this case, this bill, you put it on the backs of the citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u33	Mr President, Prime Minister, this sixth state reform is not and will never be ours. However, we take responsibility and, together with you and all the partners of this government, ensure that budgetary control follows the European path. I am convinced that if all the partners faithfully implement this coalition agreement, we will all come out as winners. I just congratulated you, Prime Minister. You have seen that this was a bit difficult for the opposition. I'm trying to explain that. That is a bit difficult because things are happening that are not commonplace with the opposition. Budgetary control without new taxes is science fiction for them. That hasn't happened yet. Budgetary control with new job creation, not in the public sector, but in the private sector, with launch jobs, with new jobs in the catering industry, with new jobs by e-commerce, with specific rules for start-up companies. That is not what they are used to in budgetary control. That's something new for them. The caiman tax, that surprises them most of all. The fact that we manage to take an important step towards fair taxation in the context of budgetary control is not common practice at all. We will continue. You can continue to count on my group. We will further demonstrate that it can also be done in a non-socialist way. I'll conclude with what I've just said. If all parties are loyal to the coalition agreement, then I think we will all come out as winners.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u34	Mr President, my speech will be brief, not because I would not appreciate the early afternoon of our shared Thursdays. After the boots, we had the right to be qualified as hussards. We're hussars! I look forward to the qualifier of the beginning after Easter! That being said, I will go back to your remarks, Prime Minister. You confirmed what we knew: this federal government wants to work with all the Regions, in compliance with the special funding law that you voted for, dear socialist friends. I would like to say to you that this government, in relation to the diamond sector, is doing what you have not done. Yes, we dare to tax the diamond sector! You didn't have the courage to do it! This majority does! No, you can't say we're violating the special financing law! You cannot say that either, you who voted for it! It's a manipulation. We simply project the calculation as it is! Finally, Mr. Nollet, it's a Walloon talking to you, a Walloon who wants Wallonia to be better! And she'd be better off, Mr. Nollet, if she didn't have the 2.5 billion for photovoltaic panels on her slate. Thank you for the Wallonia, Mr. Nollet!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that some people on the benches of the PS and sp.a have turned out a little green, and I do not think that this is out of love for Mr Calvo's colour. Mrs Onkelinx, I believe that regaining virginity, in politics, of course, is a commendable ambition. We can try to regain his political virginity, it's an ambition. But I have to tell you, Mrs Onkelinx, that after twenty-seven, twenty-eight years of power, it takes time; it takes a little longer than five or six months! Allow me, we must remain a little bit credible! You are, in fact, a little bit the last socialist party in Europe, I believe!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u36	I'd be ashamed of what you did. It's really shameful!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u37	If we're talking about shame, I'll remind you of the fact that you and Mr. Di Rupo attended Mr. Hollande's meetings at the time. I remember that very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u38	So what?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u39	You were in France to applaud the socialist candidate when he was still socialist. Mr Hollande was still socialist at that time. Now he's trying to be liberal, but no one believes him. That's the problem! And I'm curious to see if you're going back to France to applause him again after everything he's done so far. Stay a little credible, Mrs. Onkelinx!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u40	You were in the same party as Berlusconi... stop, Mr. Dewael!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u41	I don't understand the socialists very well. We are doing budgetary control, which preserves social security, while preserving people's lives, strengthening the economy by reducing costs and keeping the budget on track. However, the Socialists are not satisfied, ladies and gentlemen. Why aren't they satisfied? There are no tax increases in the budget! That is the reality. Finally, I would like to give you another slogan:more taxes, more taxes, more taxes! I would also like to remind you of what once happened in the UK:Labour doesn't work!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u42	Mr President, I do not really understand why the government is so afraid of a parliamentary debate, because this is the only time of the week that a little agreement is being made. This is the weekly ritual on Thursday. They fight all week and on Thursday a couple of one-liners will follow socialism over 25 years, with the foam on the mouth. And then let's give it a round of applause. Mr Dewael, Prime Minister, teaching socialism in 25 years' time is not yet a recruiting political project. That's not enough. People expect more than that and we cannot ignore the fact that this government has missed a chance in budgetary control. Mr Vuye still finds it a bit annoying that we live in a federal country and that there has been such a thing as parties taking on their responsibility for the sixth state reform, but he feels that he is above all putting his mark on the socio-economic programme. He believes that the socio-economic choices are N-VA choices. That's obvious. [[So I have no choice but to address you, Mr Verherstraeten, because you said that you left social security alone.]] It would still be wrong! What have we already got, Mr Verherstraeten? The index jump, part-time work, the waiting allowance, the unemployment benefit and so on. You've already chased all these things down people's throats.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u43	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u44	Mr Beke invites me to read the ACV's communiqué of 15 minutes ago. Is that what you asked, Mr. Beke? Is that your question? Mr. Beke has something to say. Mr President, a party chairman has something to say, and that is not acceptable in this country?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u45	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u46	That's weird. That's new.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u47	Speak on, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u48	I know you find it strange that party chairmen want to say something in Parliament, Mr Bracke, but they do have that right. If Mr. Beke has something to say, he should be able to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u49	(...) or stop.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u50	Mr Beke asked me to read the ACV's communiqué. I'm gonna end up. The ACV said 15 minutes ago that the government is using budgetary control to undermine young people's minimum wage. It is about the growth jobs on which Mr Verherstraeten is so proud. Well, here's what you come to triumph. Here comes the group leader of CD&V, also known as the secretary of the diamond club, about triumphs. I'll close with that. Mr Verherstraeten, weren't you a member? You were a member of it, weren't you, Mr. Veherstraeten? Mr Jambon, Mr Verherstraeten and others. That's annoying, isn't it? Mr Verherstraeten, I would like to conclude by saying that Mr Vuye has not yet received his opinion at Community level, but that he has done so socially and economically. Last week Mr Peeters and Mr Verherstraeten defended the index jump with fire in Parliament's Social Affairs Committee for 15 hours. They always ask if we can also do a tax shift. Mr Verherstraeten, I note that in the coalition agreement, in the budget and in budgetary control, the N-VA has left its mark and that more than 20 000 people were wondering in the pouring rain on Sunday: quid CD&V? What CD&V? What happened to those Christian Democrats in this government?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, you will have noticed that I have not applied the Rules of Procedure, or at least with great kindness. From now on, I will monitor its application again, which means that there is a two-minute speaking time per question, two minutes for the answer and one minute for the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u52	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Belgium has been the subject of another attack by the N-VA, on behalf of the Flemish Minister-President, since he has asked no more or less that we leave the International Organization of la Francophonie (OIF). Prime Minister, you have already had the opportunity to refer the Flemish Minister-President to his dear studies by recalling that we will continue to be members of this extremely important international organization, which is fighting not only for the defence of French but also for the defence of cultural diversity. This may have escaped Mr Bourgeois. This organization funds a great deal of studies on cultural diversity. It is also an important political organization. It is not for nothing that eighty States are members of this organization, States as unlikely as Ukraine or Thailand, beyond French-speaking States such as Laos, Congo, Canada or Switzerland. Prime Minister, I would like to hear you say again that we will remain members of this important international organization. I would also point out that it is unique because the countries of the South are the majority, which is exceptional in a North/South organization. It is important that you attach the gesture to the word. You announced that we would be more involved from now on. It should be noted, however, that we are free riders of this international organization. That is what it means: we are the only Member State in this important organisation that does not contribute at all to its financing. Countries as poor as Haiti, as Laos, as Cambodia, as Congo contribute to the financing but we absolutely do not contribute, and we are the only ones! I would like to hear from you about this. Prime Minister, will we finally, as a federal state, contribute to the financing of this important international organization?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u53	Mr Dallemagne, first of all, I confirm to you that no request for the withdrawal of this organization has been made since the establishment of the government. Secondly, we intend to remain members of this organization. Thirdly, I intend to get involved because this organization is not only cultural; it also deals with diplomatic and economic issues. There is a willingness to strengthen this dynamic. For the good information, I would like to recall that all the prime ministers in the history of the country have visited the summits of the Organization each time, with the exception of my predecessor, because of local elections in Belgium at that time. Regarding the contribution, in fact, it was in the context of the reform of the State and the establishment of federalism that it was decided that the contribution would be assumed by the federated entities, in the case of the OIF, as in the case of Taalunie. In both cases, it is the federated entities that contribute. I have not been able to find the federal government this morning, despite my research, for how long – so long it has been – does not contribute to the organization in question from a financial point of view. But we are very active. And the failure to contribute financially, directly from the federal budget, does not prevent us from being fully present, alongside and in partnership with the federated entity, which is indeed present there. I have no doubt that these answers did not fail to satisfy you. But if you want to plead, in a future reform of the state, that the contribution to all these types of organizations should be included as a criterion in the funding law, it will be a debate beyond this legislature, but not for this legislature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u54	Prime Minister, thank you for reminding you of the importance of this organization. Indeed, at the last meeting in Dakar, it was the economic issues that were at the centre of the discussions. And then it is such an important organization on the issue of human rights. I regret that you are making a big difference on this issue of funding. A large federal state, such as Canada, which is a predominantly English-speaking state, contributes ten million euros, in addition to Quebec's contribution, which is commensurate with the contribution of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. An important federal state, too, like Switzerland, is also contributing. All States contribute. We are the only one who does not pay a single euro to this international organization. I regret that, I think, this is something that you should see again in a forthcoming budget debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u55	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in December 2014 you set up a working group to inform you about the tasks that remain with our police. This working group was formed without Francophones or Brussels and bypassed the representative bodies, namely the trade unions, the Permanent Commission of the Local Police, the police directorates occupied by Francophones. It took a parliamentary question from the MR for two Francophone representatives to integrate it. Yesterday you informed the committee that the working group had completed the task and submitted its report. This report is important, ladies and gentlemen, because it lists the kerntaken, i.e. the tasks that will be excluded. Mr Minister, we want transparency on this issue and we do not want reform in catini. Decisions on security, as it will be organised tomorrow, must be taken in Parliament after a rapid debate in committee, without waiting for the consultation which may be held tomorrow, we are told. What are the planned privatisations? Let us recall article 31 of the Constitution which tells us that all powers emanate from the Nation and which gives the monopoly of the use of coercion to the police. In committee, you tell us that we first need a debate on the tasks that must remain police, and then we will choose whether or not they are assigned to private guarding. Minister, I have doubts because, since 2005, there has been tension in the private guarding sector. The four major multinationals want additional work. In addition to this, we are putting pressure on public budgets, with a reduction in police budgets and a reduction in the number of police officers as part of austerity. We therefore need a debate on the division of labour in order to know what will be kept. It should also be noted that the private sector already has its specifications. We wonder how he's informed. Minister, we have the impression that the security lobby is leading the dance on this issue with a decline in the public service. Do you understand that Parliament should not be less well informed than the private sector in this area? We therefore ask you to make the report public and to ensure that Parliament takes over the debate on security.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u56	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Demeyer, you have clearly identified the key tasks of the police services. It's one of this government's construction sites. This debate has been under way for ten years and we want to finalize it under this Parliament. As you say, we have established a working group that includes representatives of the federal police, representatives of local police and specialists. Francophones are represented in this group. I don't know where you get the opposite information. This working group has completed its mission. I have begun the round of consultation which will involve the federal police, local police, the social partners, the Associations des Villes et Communes - Flemish, Walloon, Brussels - and, of course, the parliament. I believe that the order of business should give priority to the partners. I will then come before you with a full report including the views of the working group and the various partners, as well as a proposal from the government or the Minister of the Interior. I'm sure I can count on your cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u57	Mr. President, we want a local police force and not a cheap police force, which is excessively privatized. We consider that there is a danger to safety as well as a danger in terms of social dumping as regards workers in security companies. We are not sure that the model is economically viable. Look at the Netherlands: they're going back. Finally, we call for transparency and publicity. You promise it to us; we look forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u58	After budgetary control, Minister, you announced that you wanted to launch youth growth jobs. We agree that additional measures should be introduced for young people. Youth unemployment is still very high, especially among the low-skilled. I do have a few questions about your measures. Firstly, today, employers must already reserve a certain budget for groups at risk. That is what collective bargaining is about. You now want a larger share of that budget to go to the young. So you decide unilaterally what employers should do with their money? Have you consulted the social partners in advance, or is that no longer necessary? Secondly, you want more money to go to the young, but the budget remains the same. This means that less money goes to the elderly and to the disabled. My question is therefore very simple why. Don't older people need help anymore? Do the disabled no longer need support? If the budget remains the same and you only shift the money between the target groups, how do you get 8 000 additional jobs, as you report in the press? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Kitir, the Prime Minister has just said quite clearly that we are committed to creating jobs. One of the measures to this end is the runway or launch path or whatever you want to call it. Let's just stick to burrowing jobs. The Prime Minister rightly said earlier that the Minister for Employment and the sectoral social partners will look at how we can formulate clear measures before the summer of this year to achieve this important and indeed ambitious objective, which is to increase employment for 8 000 people. In concrete terms, the 2006 law imposes an effort of 0,1%. It allows those sectors which use 0.1 % for risk groups. The law authorizes the King himself to define 0.05% for risk groups. There is a Royal Decree of 2013 implementing the authorisation, which states that it should be allocated 0.05 % to target groups. In practice, half of 0.05 %, i.e. 0.025 %, goes to young people. The aim is to agree with the sectoral social partners that the 0.05 %, which the government can orient on the basis of the law itself, should be directed entirely towards young people. This means that there is still money left, i.e. a percentage of 0.1 %, for the other target groups. You are right to say that they are also very important. However, we are firmly committed to the young people who are defined in the Royal Decree as under 26 years of age. We will also look at what the regions are doing, as target groups policy is a regional competence. Mr Calvo has already left, but tell him that in this way, with respect for social dialogue and for what is happening in the sectors, we are doing a reorientation in the interests of youth employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u60	Minister, I asked my question as an opposition Member because I am concerned and the matter is important. However, what I am much more concerned about is that the measure is less than three days old and the opposition members themselves are already attacking you. They have actually buried the measure for one piece. Perhaps, Minister, you can explain to your coalition partner, Mrs Demir, that it is not minimum wages that should be reduced, but wage costs. One will not motivate young people to seek a job that pays less than the minimum wage. I would therefore like to argue in favour of not getting there at all. Minister, if you are constantly announcing measures that affect people's purchasing power, then you should not be surprised that the economy does not ultimately attract.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u61	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, the budget conclave is over. He's already had a lot of debate and a lot of ink. Today, I would like to ask you about the good news. The government has taken innovative measures to help SMEs and encourage young people to start their businesses. It has set aside €30 million for a start-up plan. Deputy Prime Minister, can you confirm this amount? This is a positive signal for all those people who work, who dare and who undertake. A key measure in this plan is the tax shelter system for young SMEs. I would like some information in this regard. It seems we could use private savings. What would be the modalities? E-commerce is at the heart of this plan, and I welcome it. The Prime Minister reminded us that, as is the case in neighbouring Member States, we must tackle this seriously. Other measures include night work. I'd like you to tell us the nature of it. Deputy Prime Minister, have you organised an agenda? Do you already know the conditions for young businesses to benefit from this plan? I would like to parallel the SME plan launched by Minister Borsus. Are you going to work with him? I'd also like you to listen to the area. This is where risks are taken and jobs are created. For me, it's very important. Such measures are in fact in the Government's guideline. In the field, the echoes are positive. I therefore welcome this start-up plan and will listen carefully to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u62	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, it has already been said that you and the Department of the Digital Agenda manage a department of the future. Recently, you have received a manifesto from start-ups, the so-called start-ups, who are not too ambitious. Their aim is to create tens of thousands of start-ups and hundreds of thousands of new jobs over the next five years. It is a good thing that our group is also pleased that you are taking their concerns with you and that a number of measures are announced in the context of budgetary control to the benefit of these small businesses. Belgium is an SME country. Start-ups need to push our economy in a new direction. After all, the economy is constantly evolving. We must not miss this trend. It is also important that start-up companies stay in our country and that those jobs stay here. Why should we not be able to create the following Internet successes in our country? That is why I would have liked to have received some more specific information, which has just been mentioned by Mrs Cassart. Budgetary control talks about the fact that there would be a tax shelter for start-ups and a partial exemption from the payment of the farm levy. There will be fiscal incentives for crowdfunding, lower wage costs by postponing the corporate tax on wages. Digital investment will also be made cheaper by expanding the one-off investment deduction. Could you give us some more information about that in a moment? A second question concerns electronic commerce. The Prime Minister and our group leader have already made it clear that e-commerce space is also being created. Over the last few months, we have heard alarming reports from this sector. A lot of jobs were lost. That's gotta stop. Those jobs should be able to be maintained in their own country. I have one more question. Will the government ensure that night work, which is very important for this sector because it can be delivered from Belgium, is also possible in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u63	Mr President, I would like to thank both Members for their questions. I am pleased that the digital agenda is rapidly becoming concrete. I would like to express my thanks to those Members who have supported this agenda and who, together with me, will implement the measures in question in practice. Over the last few months, I have spoken to many entrepreneurs, ranging from entrepreneurs from the technology sector to sometimes also entrepreneurs from the more classical sectors. Almost all of these entrepreneurs face the same challenges. The first challenge is access to capital. The second challenge is to be able to recruit people shortly after the start of the business in order to be able to grow, knowing that at that time the resources are very scarce. One of the measures we are putting forward is the tax shelter measure, which aims to stimulate investment, a little the same way as the Monory-De Clercq law. The aim is to encourage individuals to invest, not in publicly traded companies as this law did, but in private companies that begin their business. This translates into a tax reduction (IPP) for people who invest in these companies. The tax reduction is 45 per cent for micro-enterprises, which employ fewer than 10 employees, and 30 per cent for SMEs, for example those that want a new return on capital. The measure applies only to companies under four years of age. Of course, the shares will have to be held for at least four years. It's a business start-up measure. This is not a measure of speculation. The measure for crowdfunding is comparable. In this case, there is a limit of €15,000 for capital investments and 7,500 for loans. The reduction in PPI is the same and there is a professional discount exemption for dividends on loans. We are also taking measures to make labour costs cheaper. We all know that it is very difficult for a start-up company to recruit. For each person recruited within four years of its establishment, any function for which there is a non-transfer of 20% of the pre-tax for micro-enterprises and 10% of the pre-tax for SMEs. We also talked about e-commerce. Mr Wilrycx, you have quite rightly quoted it. In recent years we have exported jobs in this area, months after month there were jobs that we could create in our country but which went to our neighbouring countries because it is forbidden here in the e-commerce sector to work overnight. Colleague of Work Kris Peeters, in consultation with the sector, will introduce an amendment to the law that will make night work possible in the e-commerce sector, with the aim of ensuring that there is an arrangement that is competitive with our neighbouring countries. We have made the choice to make entrepreneurship more free and to ensure that night work is possible. I would like to conclude by saying that I am very pleased that this government has been able to control its budget in peace. We have chosen not to impose any new burdens in this control, quite the contrary. That was my party's goal. In this budgetary control, the aim was not to increase the burden, but to reduce it, because the government's goal is growth and job creation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u64	Deputy Prime Minister, I thank you very much for the various answers and details you have given us. Thank you also for these arrangements and measures to encourage business start-ups. This is really the government's guideline, and I welcome it. We all know that it is through this price of risk that jobs are created. I think we're moving in the right direction. E-commerce is at the centre of the debate, and I welcome it. Good solutions finally happen thanks to this government
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u65	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. You have also been a young entrepreneur in your previous life, so you know the challenges of the sector very well. Our country has many assets. We have many creative people, enterprising people, people who want the economy to run, so I think it is necessary for the government to provide the necessary freedom and stability in that entrepreneurship. I also hope that the intentions in this budgetary control will quickly be incorporated into laws and royal decisions, so that the two problems that start-ups face can be solved by financing and recruiting staff and give entrepreneurs a boost.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u66	Mr President, Minister, yesterday the Federal Council for Nursing decided on the future competence and professional profile of our nurses, general care. As a result of this decision, we are faced with the situation in which only Bachelor's and Master's students will be able to start training as nurses in our country in the future. Madam Minister, this opinion gives rise to a great deal of excitement and concern, especially among our HBO5 students, the former A2 nurses. You know that one out of two students in Flanders attends an HBO5 programme. You also know that there are thousands of people working in our hospitals, in our rest homes and in home care and that they are an indispensable link in our healthcare sector. Because of yesterday's decision, their future is uncertain. That's why several schools wrote you an open letter to know what will happen in the future. The decision has now been taken at the Federal Council for Nurses and now we are waiting to see how you will deal with it. Will you translate this into legislation? Will you adapt the KB 78 to this? If you do, what about the HBO5 or A2 nurses? Will they have a future as a nurse? And how do you see that within the provisions of the Royal Decree 78? Will you consult with the sector further? The advice is only from the Federal Council, which consists mainly of the professional organisations of nurses and university representatives, but what is the voice of our domes, of our hospital domes, of our rest and nursing homes? Will you also discuss this with the field of work? How do you handle that decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u67	Mr President, Minister, there are too few hands in the sector, and everyone agrees with that. With the wave of ageing, deficits will only increase, and everyone agrees with this. It is therefore very important that we provide a place in our landscape for as many nurses as possible, as well as for as many diplomas and training courses as possible. Under the influence of the European criteria, we need to think very carefully. The sector, the professional organisations, the education boards collectively express their concerns. I am also concerned, Madam Minister, as is my group, and perhaps you too are concerned. Are we looking for a shortage of nurses? That is the fear. Firstly, what action will you take, Madam Secretary? Will you follow the advice of the Federal Council for Nursing, which you received yesterday, and thus bring the current Bachelor's programme to master's level? Secondly, will you use this advice as a reference for the Royal Decree 78 and also as a reference for your advice to the Länder? Thirdly, what consultations do you have with the Länder and how will you keep the overview? Fourthly, what are your plans with the current A2 or HBO5 nurses? Will you advise to abolish that education boudweg? Do you foresee a bridge course for them to upgrade? These A2 nurses are very competent and fully-fledged practitioners. What's their future? How do we keep these hands in the sector? Finally, you announce the revision of the Royal Decree 78. What place do you see for the caretakers there? Are you going to upgrade these caregivers to A2 nursing so that both caregivers and A2 nurses can have the same status?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u68	Mrs Muylle, Mrs Dedry, thank you for expressing your sincere concern one day after receiving the opinion. My administration confirms that yesterday, on 1 April, the Federal Council for Nursing, and it is not a joke that has issued an opinion on the professional and competence profiles of nurses. The opinion is supported by a large majority of the members. The European Directive imposes basic competences and a number of credits to be acquired for nursing professional qualifications. It does not specify how they should be acquired in education. Education is, of course, a competence of the Communities. As far as HBO5 training is concerned, the extent to which it complies with European requirements will have to be evaluated. In any case, in the light of the transformation of the Royal Decree 78 into a framework law on health professions, you know that this is a major work we are working on, a reflection is also being given on the implementation of the nursing profession. Indeed, a great deal of consultation is needed. I will therefore take the initiative this week to inform the Ministers responsible for Education about the possible implications of the European Qualifications Directive. I will also coordinate with the health ministers of the Länder. Mrs Muylle, rest assured, there is the necessary feedback to all those involved in the professions. An inter-administrative working group has also been in charge of transposing this European Directive by 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u69	Madam Minister, if I have read the opinion correctly yesterday, it is true that we are indeed dealing with European directives on hours of theory and hours of practice. Yesterday we went a step further than what Europe is asking for. It is precisely that step forward that could ensure that, when the regions have to transpose the directive into their legislation, it will no longer be accessible to HBO5 training. It reassures me, Madam Secretary, that you will consult with everyone, because it will be necessary. The federal council is part of the field of action. There's another big part of the field. You know me a little bit: a first test is always the patient. I advocate quality. I am convinced that a lot of tasks are for Bachelor's and Master's nurses. However, we continue to strongly believe that students of the HBO5 programme, the former A2 programme, also as primary nurses in our hospitals and rest homes still have a future. I would ask you to take that into account in the discussions you will have on this, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u70	Madam Minister, I would nevertheless like to ask you to examine carefully the slopes of the healthcare professionals in the Royal Decree 78 and to see if we can give the A2 nurses a recycled place through this upgrade in the Royal Decree 78. I hope you're looking into that piste.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u71	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in our country we have a number of companies that belong to the world's top in terms of energy efficiency, but still use a lot of power. These companies are now pulling the alarm, because the electricity costs are swinging out of control. They lose investment, but especially jobs. In terms of electricity taxes, the differences are large. The numbers are hallucinating. We see a difference to factor 6 with the Netherlands. They pay 4 times more than Germany and double France. This means that we must intervene, Madam Secretary. The regions have their share to play, but the federal state can certainly contribute to this. In this respect, we are all in favour of measures on the energy standard. The competitiveness of these companies must be effectively safeguarded. However, we must also consider the fact that there are other measures which have an effect. I am thinking, for example, of the gigantic strategic reserve and of the proposal on energy atoll. Madam Minister, I can only ask you to intervene so that the energy standard can be achieved as soon as possible. Will you work with the Regions as soon as possible? If so, you will find a party in our group to make this a priority. Will you be able to submit this in the short term so that we can move forward with it? Another aspect is the energy atoll. We have read a lot about this in the press. This would include a cost of approximately 250 % of the market price of electricity. It is about more than EUR 1 billion that the tariffs would raise objections. We must pay attention to that. Do you agree with that way of working? Do you think that's justified? Or do you think there are other ways of dealing with this and generating storage capacity, so that our market can have it in a realistic way?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u72	Mr Wollants, like you, yesterday I took note of the Febeliec press release on Deloitte's report. However, I did not wait for the communiqué to talk to Febeliec and to understand the difficulties facing large industrial consumers. Indeed, I have already been able to take note of Deloitte's report, commissioned by Febeliec, in 2014. Right now, I'm investigating certain slopes. However, I am surprised that the report only refers to the cost of electricity, whereas the cost of gas is also relevant in the global study of the situation of large industries. This could give a limited picture of the situation of the large industries. I would like to remind you that the situation of the large industries has improved in recent years, thanks to the introduction of the degressivity on the offshore payment and the introduction through certain regions of degressivity mechanisms on the green electricity certificate supplement. In fact, last week Parliament confirmed the degressivity on the federal gas contribution by law and thus ensured the legal solidarity of the mechanism. The energy bill as a whole and in its various parts is an important element in terms of competition for Belgian companies. It is advisable to ensure that the costs to businesses, especially to energy-intensive companies, are not higher than in our neighbouring countries. The content of the coalition agreement in this area is certainly well known. In this context, action should be taken both at the level of the commodity component and at the level of tariffs for distribution networks, tariffs for transport networks, levies and taxes. I continue in French to go faster, because I see that the president looks at me with a eyeful eye so that I respect time and, in Dutch, I am slower. It is always a question of looking at the situation as a whole, so that efforts on one component are not undermined by measures on other components. In view of the recent reform of the state and the transfer of certain policy instruments to the Regions – for example, the tariffs of certain distribution networks – collaboration between the different levels of power and the different institutions will be crucial, with a view to achieving an optimal result. The debate on the energy standard will also depend on the policy that will be pursued within the framework of the inter-federal energy pact, but I would like to push this reasoning and search it in the margins of the inter-federal energy pact, to go faster. Indeed, a particular market model can impact the determination of an energy standard. Therefore, since the energy standard also covers certain regionalised elements, it will be important to establish, as far as possible, common principles for an energy standard. I'm finishing, Mr. President. To return to your question concerning the procedure that ended in tariff matters and which was introduced by Febeliec against the decision on the rectified tariff proposal of Elia System Operator of 2 April 2013, for the regulatory period 2013-2015, and the relative decision of the CREG of 16 May 2013, the Court of Appeal unfortunately dismissed Febeliec's applications and declared all the grounds unfounded. This makes it possible today to conclude that the tariffs that are applied for the current period 2012-2015 by Elia are valid. For any further questions, I invite you to ask the CREG, which is the competent authority for tariff matters. And you must know, dear colleague, that as far as the atoll is concerned, which you have mentioned in your question, the point must normally begin to be referred to the government tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u73	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. It is indeed important that we move quickly with this. Degressivity is important, but it is not the answer to all the questions. The total costs remain important, because what one does not pay pays the other. You can ask the German families who pay 40% more for their electricity than our families. When it comes to energy atoll, it is very good that the government will bear in mind tomorrow that there will be energy costs. The energy costs for our companies have absolutely an impact on job creation, on investments. We must not be too light-hearted about this. Mrs Turtelboom, the Flemish Minister for Energy, has also indicated this: battery technology is becoming cheaper in high-speed rail transport. That is what we are now deploying all over the world. That is the future: 8 % reduction in costs per year. Will we buy an island of EUR 1.3 billion or will we commit ourselves to the future? I think that the Ministers should be very clear about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u74	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 April 2015, I propose: In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 April 2015, I propose: 1. postpone the examination of the draft law for the reform of registry duties, Nos 906/1 to 7; 1. to postpone the discussion of the draft law reforming registry fees, Nos. 906/1 to 7; 2. to be entered on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: 2. to include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Karolien Grosemans, Mr Peter Buysrogge and Mr Johan Klaps, Mrs Renate Hufkens, Mr Damien Thiéry, Mrs Sophie Wilmès and Mr Veli Yüksel, Mr Dirk Van Mechelen, Mr Tim Vandenput and Mr Denis Ducarme) on the future of defence, No. 988/1; - the motion for a resolution (Doc. Alain Top and Dirk Van der Maelen) on the future of the Belgian army, No. 908/1; - the motion for a resolution (Mr Sébastian Pirlot, Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez, Mr Eric Thiébaut, Mr Stéphane Crusnière and Mrs Laurette Onkelinx) on the future of defence in the context of the preparation of the government's long-term strategic plan, No. 923/1; - the motion for a resolution (Ms Karolien Grosemans, MM. Peter Buysrogge and Johan Klaps, Renate Hufkens, Damien Thiéry, Sophie Wilmès and MM. Veli Yüksel, Dirk Van Mechelen, Tim Vandenput and Denis Ducrame) on the future of defence, No. 988/1; - the motion for a resolution (MM. Alain Top and Dirk Van der Maelen) on the future of the Belgian army, No 908/1. - the motion for a resolution (Mr Sebastian Pirlot, Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez, MM. Eric Thiébaut and Stéphane Crusnière and Laurette Onkelinx) on the future of National Defence as part of the Government's long-term strategic plan, No. 923/1. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u75	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Philippe Blanchart, Stéphane Crusnière, Sebastian Pirlot, Julie Fernandez Fernandez The Committee on Defence proposes that this bill be rejected. (133/3) The National Defence Commission proposes to reject this bill. (133/3) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament expressed its views on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u76	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have asked to add our bill to the agenda, since the majority of us have previously refused to set up the monitoring working group on linguistic balance. This bill implements the fifth recommendation of the working group of the previous legislature. The report is also available. It is not a question of an umpteenth Community policy but rather of perpetuating the exercise and always giving this situation a long-term will rather than a given time. Our proposal is to implement Article 31bis of the Law of 30 July 1938 concerning the use of languages in the army, which provides for a linguistic inspection commission responsible for monitoring the application of this law. However, this commission requires further and precise implementation and redefinition of its status and tasks. In this way, it can finally function properly and, above all, be implemented effectively for both Dutch-speaking and French-speaking people, which is unfortunately not the case today. The aim of Article 2(1) of our proposal is therefore to implement effectively and effectively this Committee on Language Inspection. Our aim is to ensure transparency in this process and thus to avoid in the future any sterile polemics on this subject by objectivating it. I can only regret that I was forced to ask an oral question to obtain answers from the minister on this text, while he was present in committee and preferred to remain silent rather than answer me. Finally, this proposal co-signed by our colleague Denis Ducrame under the previous legislature, the addendum in support, I do not doubt for a moment that the MR, like one man, will vote for the latter in order to make lie this famous adage: "Of course MR varies! Well, he's the one who trusts it!"
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u78	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u79	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: 988: Karolien Grosemans, Peter Buysrogge, Johan Klaps, Renate Hufkens, Damien Thiéry, Sophie Wilmès, Veli Yüksel, Dirk Van Mechelen, Tim Vandenput, Denis Ducrame 908: Alain Top, Dirk Van der Maelen 923: Sebastian Pirlot, Julie Fernandez Fernandez, Eric Thiébaut, Stéphane Crusnière, Laurette Onkelinx I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these three motions for resolutions. I propose that you devote one discussion to these three motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u80	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (988/4) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (988/4) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u81	Mr President, I refer to the comprehensive written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u82	Mr Hellings also refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Defence has held a very broad consultation to gather ideas and insights. Parliament has also done so in the Committee on Defence, with two objectives. The first objective is to listen to a broad representation from society: academics, allies, international organisations but also our own military, trade unions, the business world and the peace movement. The second objective is to make recommendations to the government on the future of defence, based on these hearings. Ladies and gentlemen, these conclusions and recommendations are before the vote today. With the four majority parties, we have managed in the short term to define the broad lines of action and trends on paper. The elaboration with concrete figures is, of course, work for the government, which will draw up a strategic plan. In committee, we were accused of being a copy-paste of the coalition agreement. Is it a copy-paste? Of course, that is not the case. The resolution is complementary to the coalition agreement, but of course it is in line with the coalition agreement. The opposite would be very strange. Ladies and gentlemen, the majority has succeeded, but the left-wing opposition has not reached a consensus. However, there was a call in committee from the PS to support their resolution. I quote Mr Pirlot, who felt that their resolution was so good that everyone would like to sign it. However, there was no link between the left-wing parties. Furthermore, the sp.a and the PS submitted two different resolutions, which may have to do with the fact that the sp.a first gave a comprehensive list of all the speakers, and then completely ignored the general trend, the major trends and everything that the speakers said. Colleagues of the sp; a, you have not taken any lessons from the hearings. No lessons learned. You haven't learned lessons in five hearings. The link between your resolution and the hearings is completely lost. You fell all the way back to your red dogma. You still want an army, but rather a sort of army of salvation, an army that gives the first care and rubble, for example the shelter of homeless people, which is of course also important, but that is what other organisations are for. In your resolution, you want to specialize in Defense, not to create a professional high-tech army, but to abolish as many army as possible, in order to create a particularly small army that you can hide somewhere under Civil Protection. If you want to abolish the army, I think you should just say that. The reason why you did not find any support for your resolution is perhaps because you left aside all the lessons and recommendations of the speakers. It was a pal for nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude my speech. In December 2013, the European Summit of Heads of State or Government declared: "Defence matters," freely translated as: Defence is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u84	Mrs Grosemans, I notice that you are already going to the substantive discussion. However, you also mentioned the way in which the resolution was drawn up. You also referred to sp.a. Since you are also addressing the methodology, I would like to quote what I have already said three times in committee. I deeply regret that the majority parties have not at any time accepted the hand that the Ecolo Green Group has put forward in order to reach a consensus resolution, with a common denominator and choices that could be anchored for the next five to ten years, so that the vision of Defence can exceed the term of one legislative term. That's important. After all, if we make choices and make purchases, then the purchase period of decision on order until delivery will take four to five years. Defense needs long-term security. This certainty can only be provided if all parties work together in one piece and see where the lowest common denominator lies. Perhaps that would result in a very concise resolution; that is possible. Perhaps, for example, it is a recommendation to the government that, because of regional employment, at least one barracks per province should be maintained. Perhaps it is also a matter of emphasis on the Navy, because we already have a long way to go in the Benelux. We could say with all the parties that we want to preserve and concrete that. You have chosen another way, a path that consists in giving the government a blank cheque, by not making any choice, but also by making it purely a game of majority versus opposition, and that is just what the army does not need.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u85	Mr De Vriendt, what you are saying is absolutely wrong. At no time has there been an outstretched hand of Ecolo-Green. It's the other way around! With our motion for a resolution, we went to your group to ask if you could agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u86	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u87	Mr Yüksel asked you to do so. You've been in contact with Mr. Yüksel, haven't you? We have discussed this. At no time have you said: yes, we want to go for it. Mr De Vriendt, things are already so difficult between the left-wing parties. Even sp.a and the PS refused to sign each other's proposals for resolution. The CDH has also tried to table a resolution, far too late, because they did not know who they would join. We did reach out to you, didn't we?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u88	Mr De Vriendt, you will remember that in committee I was one of the first to say that we had to strive for a wide-ranging resolution. Before the krokusreces I said that the issue transcends the legislature, because it concerns the future of defence in 10, 15, 20 years and I have called for cooperation to do so. I've talked to you about that, too. However, we have noted that, without real discussions, proposals for a resolution were tabled by sp.a. and by the PS. If that happens, what do you expect from us? I've always been in touch with you. However, I have never seen you take concrete steps to come up with a general proposal for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u89	Mr President, Mrs Grosemans, I deeply regret the way in which you are starting this debate on this extremely important and worrying subject. You are the chairman of this commission. These hearings were the focus of the committee's meetings for six months. We have devoted important work to this. You have invited distinguished personalities and you have done well. I have also congratulated you on this. We have received the entire staff, ambassadors, in fact, all those who matter in defence matters in Belgium and in neighbouring countries. Yet you start this debate by accusing each other, creating polemics, whereas you should rather give us your vision of tomorrow's defence, the reason why Belgium must contribute to international security, the reason why it is so important that we find budgetary and human resources to be able to defend our country. That should be your concern, Mrs Grosemans, rather than launching unnecessary and futile polemics with regard to this fundamental issue!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u90	Mr President, it seems that it is more important for the opposition to play political games immediately and to initiate proceedings instead of holding the substantive debate. Apparently, the opposition does not have sufficient substantive arguments to attack us and so it chooses the course of proceedings, the argument that it was not addressed, and so on. I believe that we all benefit from a wide-ranging resolution. There was indeed a long exchange of views and extensive hearings were organised. It was agreed that it would be possible to examine the possibility of submitting a document together with all the political groups. However, if, after a week and a half, that agreement is violated by two political groups, the PS and the sp.a. It is true that Ecolo-Green has not tabled a resolution, but if the other groups do so, the majority must take responsibility. Finally, I would also like to say that the majority, the day before yesterday, in the course of the debate, expressed its goodwill by adopting a number of amendments, which demonstrate transparency and openness towards the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u91	Mrs Grosemans, I am happy to address you as chairman of the committee, but as well as a member of the majority of the committee that is presenting this resolution here. I would like to add something to what my fellow Members have just said. The committee has taken six months to do decent preparatory work on the future of the army for the next ten to twenty years. In this context, many experts were heard and, as Mr Dallemagne has just done, we also thank you, Madam President of the Commission, for the proper functioning of the committee. However, the desired result was not achieved. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the commitments made. It was agreed in committee that resolutions should be tabled by 4 March. At the last committee meeting, before 4 March, the majority resolutions were referred to because they had not yet been tabled. Then you literally replied: 'We have not yet found the time to come together with the majority to complete the resolution.' With regard to your speech and the text you just put forward, I think you have more than four parties in the government. Is that a resolution of four parties or all of them? Finally, I did not hear your defence of the majority resolution, but you immediately began to seek polemics and to take the other resolutions on board. I would like to hear your resolution and its content. That is the work of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u92	Mr Buysrogge, perhaps you can reread the report from the beginning of this discussion. You are right here, and you are blaming the opposition for bringing up the methodology and the various resolutions. Mr Buysrogge, it is simply enough to read the report and you will see that it was actually Mrs Grosemans who started her speech. A little intellectual honesty might be...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u93	That's perfectly normal and logical.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u94	I understand that you, as chairman of the Defence Committee, are extremely bored with the fact that you are choosing a purely party-political game of majority versus opposition, which will not help Defence. I understand that you feel ashamed of the pointless work you have done here, but that is no reason to interrupt us if we wish to point that out. Mr Yüksel, at the start of the hearings I called on Ecolo-Green to work together to reach a consensus resolution, in the interests of defence and in the interests of the long term, so that we do not have to start again and make other decisions if the next government is to be put together in a different way. This can also be seen in the report. Then what happened? We have found each other, in the corridors, I have spoken to you and you seemed to want to take a step in our direction. I have continued to address you, but I have not seen any draft text that we could consider together. Nor have I received any e-mail, from any majority group, with an invitation to sit together. If you deny that, Mrs. Grosemans, I challenge you to show me that invitation. We have handed out our hand, but you have never accepted that hand. If you deny that, show me the e-mail or text message. You won't be able to. I would therefore ask you very formally to withdraw your words. Mr Yüksel, we did not see any text or invitation before last week's plenary session. When the majority resolution text was considered last week, you came to me, in the corridor behind us, with a copy of the text, Mr Yüksel. You said that that text was what you could achieve in the majority. However, as always, we can now debate on the basis of a majority text and two opposition texts. That's very unfortunate and a missed opportunity. That no one else is telling it here, otherwise it's a flat lie.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u95	Mr President, I shall begin with the procedure. There were three motions for resolutions on the table in committee. Then it is very common to take one of these proposals as a basic text. Of course, discussions will always be possible. We allowed them, too. Everyone has been able to take the floor very extensively, from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. We certainly did not silence the opposition. We have followed a very correct and very normal procedure. I may respond in the first place to the content of our motion for a resolution, but I can also respond in the same way to the many attacks we have suffered in committee on Tuesday. It's my right to go into that as well. Polemics have mainly been waged by the opposition. In the past we have also had opposition, but that has always been constructive. Now, however, we have seen other examples. As far as the achievement of a consensus is concerned, I have seen no outstretched hand from you, no mail or text messages. I'll bounce the ball back: show me your text or e-mail. You have just admitted that Mr Yüksel has gone to you to support the motion for a resolution. So the hand awarded came from our side.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u96	Mr Yüksel did not come to us with the question of supporting the motion for a resolution. He came to us when the motion for a resolution had already been considered, last week. Dot the i and don't tell any other things that don't add up, Mrs. Grosemans.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u97	Please continue, Mrs. Grosemans.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in December 2013, the European Summit of Heads of State or Government said: "Defence matters'. Freely translated, that means defense is important. For the N-VA and for our partners in the majority, Defence is therefore important for the survival of our society and civilisation, based on universal values and freedom. That is why, having listened extensively to representatives from various sectors of society, we made a number of recommendations to the government in the proposed resolution. We are convinced that it will provide additional impetus for our government to define the defence that our country needs in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u99	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, almost two years ago, my colleague Lacroix was here to present my group's resolution on defence Europe. He then welcomed the fact that a large majority would adopt this ambitious and unambiguous text, which had subsequently inspired other national parliaments. If the European army does not yet exist, we feel the wind turning, opinions changing or reflexes taking on ourselves: European force to fight piracy in the Horn of Africa, European missions to train African forces or the convening of a European Council on defence issues in 2013. Two years later, unfortunately, I cannot share the enthusiasm of my colleague. The new majority has not taken over the torch, but on the contrary! Today we have to decide on a text of the majority which is a true white leaf. This is not a framework, but a blank text given to the Minister of Defence in drafting his strategic plan. A minister who, moreover, will not have the budgetary means of his ambitions. As evidence, its strategic plan is slow to be drafted, as the budget cuts imposed on its department by this government are enormous. In the face of more than 1.7 billion savings, there are investment sliders close to absolute zero and it is not the 100 million released during the budgetary conclave that will be beneficial, whatever some say. More than EUR 1.6 billion will remain to be found by the end of the legislature. Ladies and gentlemen, this text is deeply disturbing, both in form and substance. On the form, there are seven pages, no recitals, eleven hollow requests and a single commission led by a president, who is also the first author of this text – look for the error and above all the objectivity that should normally be in such a position – to discuss a text that could have been crucial to our army. That is clearly what Defence's vision for the majority groups is all about. The text of my group and that of the sp.a of my colleagues Top and Van der Maelen were simply swept away with a back of the hand. However, our texts were clearly anterior because we had complied with the deadline for submission required by the chairman of the committee for this debate. All the opposition's questions on the majority system remained unanswered, as the authors did not hesitate to acknowledge themselves, and I invite you to read the committee's report, that they had no concrete examples or details to give us on such crucial points as outsourcing. One week between the consideration of this text and the vote today in plenary, this shows the will of this majority MR-N-VA – and I still remember the true declaration of love of our colleague Mr Denis Ducrame at the N-VA in committee, we would have believed ourselves in the American series The Love Boat, in French La Croisière s' amuse, and this is the case of saying about our frigates – to cut short any substantive debate, to avoid embarrassing questions while every day the press is relaying leaks most certainly organised on the future strategic plan of the Minister. By voting the urgency last week, you simply deprived our assembly of its right and its duty to question and reflect. You have also despised the speakers of our hearings, who have been rich and who have clearly pointed to the difficulties of all the components of our army. There was no justification for this urgency. It was not justified in the light of the timing of the Minister. In fact, he announced in mid-February that he would present towards Easter only the outline of his strategic plan, asking for the government's agreement on them. He admitted that it was impossible to draw up a final plan in six months, as foreseen in the government agreement, due in particular to the savings imposed on Defence (225 million euros this year, to 400 million at the end of the legislature in 2019). The Minister then intends to seek agreement from the federal government on the general principles of his strategic plan before the parliamentary holidays, and then submit an implementation plan by September. The first implementing measures would lead to an entry into force at the beginning of next year, i.e. 1 January 2016. So where was this urgency, ladies and gentlemen of the majority? The urgency of proposing an empty text. This government, we are told, has made the fight against social fraud and tax evasion two of its priorities. I propose to add a third: the fight against intellectual fraud. Our Parliament could, by refusing the proposed text, implement this priority; for if we decided to fine this draft resolution, the money would flow into the State's coffers, so great is the number of euphemisms, litters and oratory contradictions – in short, a text of extreme intellectual poverty.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u100	Mr President, Mr Pirlot, I appreciate you very much, but you must know what you want. After the Easter recess, the Minister goes to the government with his draft strategic vision paper. Do you want us to come up with the recommendations, with this resolution after Easter? Is that what you're suggesting?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u101	Since there is nothing in the text, we could very well wait, after Easter, for a more in-depth discussion. But it won't be too late, since your text is empty. So we have all the time to fine-tune it. Let us now turn to the substance and position of my group on this future strategic plan. It is good to speak a little of substance instead of just criticizing and waiting for this plan, which is a little announced like the Child Jesus or like the New Testament. The PS decided to work energetically in the field of defence, while organizing thematic conferences as well as meetings with personalities from the academic world or trade unions. It has also drawn up a genuine alternative strategic plan, in addition to the attached motion for a resolution before you today. A strategic plan 2015-2030 was needed. Minister Flahaut's 2000-2015 plan has come to an end, and no direction has been taken by the former or current Minister of Defence. I must admit that I am no longer very well aware of who is exercising this function, given the many statements made by Mr. From Crem in the press! The new plan must develop armed forces that adjust ambitions to the new realities of Belgium, Europe and the world - cybersecurity, the fight against terrorism, etc. - as well as possible human and budgetary resources. In general, our country's ambition must be to remain an ambitious player in the construction of a true Defence Europe in harmony and synergy with our participation in NATO. Indeed, the figures and the facts must prompt us to reflect in depth in the context of a world that has changed, of American military priorities that have evolved or of changing battlefields. Now we are talking about cybercrime or espionage, especially in the head of our NSA friends... We can only regret with 1.6 million men and women under arms and a budget of more than 190 billion euros, the European Union continues to be an economic giant, but a real diplomatico-military dwarf on a global scale. While this reality requires courageous strategic choices, our ambition is to maintain Belgium as one of the European states that count in international diplomatic relations and peacekeeping missions. This situation has lasted too long. It is impossible for an average country, like Belgium, to acquire the full range of military capabilities. Therefore, we need to focus on the development of targeted military capabilities but consistent with our European and international missions and commitments. At the same time at Belgian level, it remains essential to seek further interdepartmental cooperation within the State. Defence must promote transversalities in order to highlight possible synergies, since many defence missions and tasks directly affect other departments (Inner SPF, Economy, Public Health, Employment) and, of course, civil bodies. Without setting quotas on the number of Belgian soldiers to be kept in operation, the operationality of our army is truly the priority. This priority must be based on the European voluntarism of our country, but also on a Defence which puts human resources and training as a priority. This presence in operation will have to involve Parliament fully in a transparent process. If I invite you, of course, to read our contribution, I would like to list our five cross-cutting priorities for the 2015-2030 strategic plan. 1. A Europe of effective defence at the operational, diplomatic, training and industry levels, which must be taken into account in the major investments to be made during the reporting period. 2. Aid to the Proactive Nation in Belgium, Europe and the world, B-FAST, EU-FAST, in synergy with the other SPFs, a rapprochement in particular with civil protection. 3. A defence operationality that must clearly define its missions and added value in the framework of UN, Common Security and Defence Policy and NATO missions within a clearly defined international framework (UN resolution, respect for international and humanitarian law, parliamentary follow-up). 4. Training and a maximum limitation on the outsourcing of services and expertise within the army, which must be a dynamic player in training, both for technical occupations and via the ERM. 5. Finally, a work of memory, via the historical pole and the reform of the IV-INIG. In the face of these five priorities, I would now like to elaborate on several points. 1. The NATO-European Union link. For us, the voice and positions of the European Union must be strengthened within NATO, whose role has also changed and evolved, particularly in view of the changing international context. Our country's place in NATO is clearly not called into question by a call for a more advanced and community-based Europe of defence. This link with NATO could also be ensured, inter alia, by the European Defence Agency and the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, as well as through a strengthened EU-NATO partnership. At the international level, Belgium will have to continue and strengthen its commitment to a defence Europe, in order to enable the emergence of a real European strategy emancipated from NATO's unique strategy. Similarly, our country will have to make full use of its voice in NATO in order to fight for nuclear disarmament in multilateral negotiations, in particular in order to free our territory from any nuclear weapons presence; this is the meaning of the amendment by my colleague Stéphane Crusnière, adopted in the Committee on External Affairs last week on the text of the majority on the NPT. The strategic plan must therefore, I believe, incorporate all these aspects. This would be, but perhaps it is too much to ask, only a consistency of our assembly. 2. A European defence industry. An essential aspect for the future of our defence and the future strategic plan in the face of the potential replacement of several major equipment, we demand a genuine ambition to consolidate the industrial and technological base of European defence, creating jobs and rich in innovative know-how. It is around this industrial tool preserved and strengthened by the European network of defence SMEs that Europe will have to be reactivated, with the European partners who will have the will, using synergies between research and development, both civilian and military. Moreover, this cooperation must also continue to encourage the common purchase of European military equipment and thus further promote a common European-wide military training base and the total compatibility of the equipment which is lacking today. I do not think we should miss the European train and undermine this dynamic and all the potential benefits for Belgian and European industries. I am of course thinking of the Musis project, for example, and the question of the long-term replacement of major equipment, or the possible exceptions to be defended in the debate on the negotiating mandates for the future free trade agreement between the European Union and the United States. It is also a question of focusing on the advantages that such cooperation can have for employment, growth, innovation and industrial competitiveness in the European Union, but also for our technological and strategic independence, which would not, a priori, allow the purchase of the F-35, the aircraft at the 362 potential failures, for example. By the way, I welcome the majority's vote in favour of a proposal for an amendment by the opposition on the need to give priority to European industrial benefits, which is not the case with the F-35. It would be inconceivable for my group that the strategic plan does not provide for anything at European industrial level and does not promote such a European preference. 3. Human aspects. Of course, a strategic plan is simply not imaginable without a proper consideration of human resources management, involving the social partners fully. In this context, the vision of the PS is clear: we want to develop a version adapted to the realities of the army – the Erasmus and Bologna programmes existing between European civilian universities, in order to foster collaborations, bridges, common skills and languages among young European military personnel – but also the establishment of a genuine common training base that promotes exchanges and compatibility, in particular in operations carried out under the aegis of the Common Defence Security Policy or NATO. This strategic plan will also have to address thorny issues such as linguistic balance, the future of the EVMI and BDL statutes, as well as the possibility of facilitated gateways to other government departments. A policy of qualitative and quantitative recruitment of young people is essential to ensure the operational nature of the units. A proactive policy, closer to our country's employment areas, is therefore needed, taking full account of the fight against all discrimination. The medical and psychosocial support of staff is particularly crucial during and after operations. And families must also be able to count on a serious and socially appropriate accompaniment. We will, of course, pay particular attention to these aspects. 4. Aid to the Nation and international solidarity. Defence is able to perform many tasks within the nation, the population or the international community. For my group, the strategic plan must take fully into account the considerable added value that Defence represents in relation to the so-called missions of assistance to the Nation, as demonstrated daily by the Queen Astrid Military Hospital, for example. These missions must remain free of charge and provided by the public authorities. The tasks of the Defence must strengthen the armed-nation link and highlight the solidarity shown by Belgium at Belgian, European and international level by further developing B-FAST, EU-FAST and a rapprochement with civil protection. Defence must also demonstrate its commitment to democratic values and the development of citizenship, particularly through the memory work that is a full and complete competence of our army. The ORM also has a crucial role to play here, particularly in terms of social elevators. 5. Diplomacy. I could not complete our defence vision without insisting that the strategic plan must take the army fully into account as part of a comprehensive solution, a 3D solution, largely absent from the government's strategy, particularly in Iraq. For the PS group, the use of Defence capabilities must always be seen as part of a comprehensive conflict resolution solution. The use of force must last and always constitutes a failure for diplomacy and multilateralism. While this use of force may be necessary in the short term to help populations to defend values, such as human rights or democracy, in the long term, only politico-diplomatic and socio-economic solutions can be the solutions for sustainable pacification. In this context, Defence must continue to provide constructive solutions, including through the empowerment of local forces, such as in the DRC or Mali, or as was the case with the demining missions in Lebanon, whose abandonment I regret. Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, now that I have touched on our vision, we will certainly not be accused of not being constructive. Let us move on to the white page, proposed today by the majority as a matter of urgency! I really hope that at the end of this presentation you will reserve a thunder of applause, because it is a difficult exercise to analyze nothingness. Indeed, in my life as a parliamentarian, I have not seen such a bad and meaningless text. Overall, this text is completely different from the vision of modern Belgian Defence, European Defence and the service of the people that we developed in our text and in our strategic guidelines that I have just outlined to you. While, unlike the majority, we do not have a firm, we have done much more thorough and thorough work. In developments, it is interesting to note that there is a lot of talk about investment. However, this majority has put all curricula in this field to zero. We are therefore facing a budget not of rationalization but of mass destruction. We strongly opposed this budget during all the discussions. This budget does not make it possible to achieve the ambitions, even extremely weak ones, of the resolution of the majority. Indeed, this budget directly threatens, as of 2015, the essential missions of our National Defence, which must now be content to survive. Moreover, we have learned from the press, decidedly much better informed than our parliament, that a confidential report from the staff states that the announced savings may no longer allow the army to pay its debts. This would result in a deficit of €80 million next year, which could rise to €213 million in 2019. In an interview in L'Écho, the minister himself said that with the level of the budget that we would have in 2018-2019, Belgium will no longer be able to meet its obligations to its international partners properly. That won't be enough! How, in this context, do not reduce the level of ambition, as mentioned on page 4 of the majority text? Of course, the adjustment is granted – and one of my colleagues in the majority has been overgarranted – 100 million more for the Defence. But in the face of a dark cup of $1.7 billion, what are you going to do with that amount, since we still have to find $1.6 billion? I already hear Mr.Ducarme's reply, for whom I have a lot of esteem, pseudo-figures in support, saying that the previous government had asked the Defence to make efforts like all other departments. But, as a reminder, this budget allowed for the implementation of 83% of the investment plan approved in 2012. In the configuration of the time, neither staff nor training nor even operations were affected because it was the core business of our Defence. Should I recall what the hearings revealed about the lack of abyssal capabilities of the military intelligence service, training or investments under the current government? It is true that it will be easy for the Commission to reach a rate of implementation of 100% of the planned investments since there are none! Moreover, there is no clear choice in this text since developments speak of operationality in the air, on land and on sea. More shockingly, developments systematically induce the idea of a choice between the common European security and defence policy and NATO, using "or" on each line. Paradoxal, no, for parties that supported our resolution on defence Europe under the previous legislature? Then, of course, the text takes a safe approach. It is far from seeing Defence as a vector of humanitarian aid, of international solidarity, part of a global solution or of aid to the Nation, since we are talking about a resurgence of terrorist groups in neighbouring countries as well as in its territory. Mr. Ducrame, with whom I sometimes have somewhat virile political confrontations – but that is the charm of democracy – calls for an army that returns to its essential missions. But what exactly are they? Is being on the street one of these? Once the weak developments have been digested, the text begins immediately by talking about a Defence that remains a reliable partner of NATO and speaks about the UN-NATO or European Union context. For us, this is unacceptable, because all these levels are complementary and add to each other. With regard to demand 4, for us the missions of aid to the nation and of international solidarity must be just as important as the combat missions, as the Ebola crisis has demonstrated. As for demand 5, although we welcome the emphasis on social dialogue, we are opposed to outsourcing, which must always be the last resort. It should be noted that the authors of the majority are completely unable, during the discussions in committee, to determine in concrete terms the tasks and tasks that could be outsourced in the future. That's a cause for concern. With regard to demand 8, let us recall that we are not in a Euro-Atlantic security Europe, but rather a Europe that speaks as much as possible with one voice in NATO. In the current context, how can the majority want to revive the partnership between NATO and Russia? Secondly, and this is on our agenda today, how can the MR support the request 10 on recommendations relating to linguistic balance, while at the same time he rejected our bill implementing one of these recommendations of activation of a follow-up working group. Will you change your mind again? Finally, last but not least, the request 11 may be the most shocking one for me. It is a question of strengthening the armed-nation bond through different types of action that value the image of the army. At the level of the PS group, we do not want an army that acts for its image, but for peace and assistance to people in situations of war and disaster. The best way to ensure a good image of our army is to show an army that is open to the world and that comes to the aid of the people, an army that helps maintain peace and our values of human rights. In this text, however, we do not find a word about the Royal Military Hospital, aid to the Nation, B-FAST, EU-FAST; and this is the most worrying. I was just talking to you about an abyssal vacuum. Even if empty, I am concerned about this text, despite the rich hearings that we have had and which have been of no use. Nothing about staff - future status BDL, Erasmus, Military Bologna, gender equality, fight against discrimination, attractiveness of EVMI status, openness to youth. Nothing about international and humanitarian law. Nothing about the Royal Military School. Nothing about memory work (IV-INIG) or the Royal Army Museum as we celebrate this year's seventeenth anniversary of the end of the Second World War and are still in commemorations of the Great War. Finally, nothing ambitious about Defence Europe, not even a reminder of the PS resolution adopted under the previous legislature. Nothing operational at European level (European staff, etc.) Nothing about missions of aid to the Nation or international solidarity. Nothing about the involvement of parliament, completely ignored by the current government. In the face of such a vacuum, as you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, my group will only be able to confirm with force its vote against this majority resolution. Indeed, the PS Group has too much conviction for a modern Belgian army, reformed within the framework of a European Union as a major player at international level, to support what is being put to our vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u102	Mr President, at the moment I am not voting on the text submitted by the majority. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Pirlot on his interest in the army. This is not common because within the Socialist Party there is the tradition of broken rifles. On the other hand, he strongly and virulently denounced the fact that the majority text was empty and I listened carefully to it. What I am withdrawing from your speech, Mr. Pirlot, is a journey between an operetta army at the Grand Duchess of Gérolstein and Woodstock, peace and love. But I didn't hear anything concrete! Therefore, I do not understand what you blame for the majority, which proposes a whole series of very specific elements – and it is not a question of writing a detailed Bible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u103	Mr. Flahaux, you're wrong. I really invite you to read draft resolution PS carefully and, above all, to understand it. You'll see it's quite different.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u104	I hear a lot of criticism from you. You say there's a lot of things in there. I must say I'm wrong about that. You say, for example, that there is nothing about diversity. That's not true. An amendment was explicitly adopted in which we talk about gender and diversity aspects. You say that there is nothing about young people and influxes, but that is not true either: Article 5 effectively refers to the necessary influx of young people and the measures to be taken. Before you say that there is something wrong, I would ask you to read the resolution carefully and then criticise it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u105	There is no question of generality. You're talking about young people, I'm talking about statutes. I see no plans in terms of upgrading the statutes of young people. These are only hollow terms. I'll finish it. All that the majority text of the N-VA offers us, with the active complicity of the MR, is a parliamentary blank-seing to an amputated defence budget of 1.6 billion euros – even before presenting any strategic plan. But, after all, and this will be my conclusion, as the proverb says: "In the kingdom of the blind, the blind are kings!"
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u106	Mr President, the opposition is already getting restless. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we have had very interesting and very intensive hearings in committee in January and February. We have listened carefully to the input of academics, experts, representatives of the various components of the army, trade unions and civil society organisations. The resolution before us is a synthesis of the main points, the main concerns raised. With regard to the future of defence, it is essential for my party to be able to live up to our international commitments. Belgium has always been and will remain a reliable partner within NATO. We are, moreover, highly internationally appreciated and respected for the efforts we are making, such as the operation in Libya, such as the mining operation in Lebanon, such as our support in Afghanistan and our recent interventions in Iraq. A military operation must always be a last resort, a last resort. It must always be done in an international framework and with an international mandate. We refer to the EU, NATO and, in particular, the United Nations. For my group, therefore, it is incredibly important that this be seen in that context. Defence must be flexible, dynamic and multi-purpose. To remain a reliable partner, of course, the necessary investments must follow. The central starting point is pooling and sharing. That principle was, of course, taken as a starting point in the previous legislatures, under the former Minister of Defence Pieter De Crem and under previous governments. So working together as much as possible is actually the motto and that of course also means focusing on specializations. Pooling and sharing means of course specializing but also working cost-efficiently and going for more output. Ladies and gentlemen, in these times of savings this is more than necessary and is also a very responsible starting point. Defence, like other departments, has an important task when it comes to budgetary matters. In recent years, the former Secretary of Defense has already been severely cut in Defense. In every budgetary control, Defence had to make its contribution and has always done so faithfully. So there was still a lot of room to save, but we all note that the space to save is running out. And so, of course, the safety of operations, the possibilities, but also the safety of our men, must be taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, in our efforts to save money, we must not compromise the operations and the safety of our boys and girls. Mr President, I come to the issue of staff. We all expect that there will be an increasing wave of personnel within the Defense Department in the coming years. We will also be faced with a certain degree of demotivation, as is apparent from investigations. Under the previous government, a lot of changes were made to the Staff Regulations to make a job attractive to the army. I think that we need to make further efforts on this, so that we can attract young people to the defence sector. Ladies and gentlemen, this resolution also calls for greater attention to be paid to mobility. It concerns military mobility and mobility between Defence and the public sector and the private sector respectively. Finally, I would like to draw attention to cyberspace. All international studies show that this is an important point. In the case of the Defense Department, there is absolutely a need to increase the use of cybersecurity. Ladies and gentlemen, our proposal for a resolution contains a number of interesting proposals and suggestions, with which we want to create a general framework. Saying that this is a white sheet, that there is nothing in the text here, is a step too far. It is also very derogatory to anyone who has made interesting statements about our defence and its future. It is derogatory to everyone who has taken the time and has taken the trouble to share his or her vision and proposals with us. I repeat what I said in committee. Don't expect a 3Suissescatalogue. It is not the intention of the motion for a resolution to make concrete suggestions to the government and the Minister of Defence about the future of defence. However, it is up to the Minister to include the points of the text in his draft strategic vision paper, which we may be given after Easter leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u107	Mr Yüksel, I have a question for you and you will agree with me that Parliament does not serve as a double task. There is already the coalition agreement, there is the Minister's policy letter. These are documents with a vision, which are supported by the majority parties and the government anyway. Can you tell me in what areas the 11 points of your motion for a resolution add value to what already exists, in particular the government agreement and the Minister's policy paper?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u108	Mr De Vriendt, you can put the coalition agreement and the motion for a resolution side by side and you will see its added value. I invite you to put the text alongside the coalition agreement. The coalition agreement goes very far and the proposed work complements it. Apparently, you didn't listen very well. We have made a synthesis of what has been said in committee and we have taken into account the recommendations of the experts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u109	Mr Yüksel, Mr De Vriendt wishes to intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u110	Thank you, Mr Yüksel, for your very enlightening answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u111	Mr De Vriendt, read the coalition agreement and the motion for a resolution and tell me what point is a repetition of the coalition agreement. Mr President, it will be clear when the Minister comes out with his strategic vision paper. We insist, Minister, that you take account of the recommendations. We will, of course, monitor it and come back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u112	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a majority resolution is the result of a number of very interesting hearings, where the academic world, civil society, industry, international partners and a delegation of the military staff have explained their views on the future of the army. This text is not a minister's policy paper. Nor is it the upcoming note that the minister will present to the government after Easter. No, it does contain a number of directives, some of which are contained in the coalition agreement and some of which were suggested during the many hearings on the future of the army. What have we learned in these hearings? Well, I've remembered that the army top is definitely willing to reorganise. He does ask for a stable long-term budgetary framework, however small or large that annual amount may be. The army staff is large and needs to be drastically reduced. Some call it the waterhead in the hearings. There is also a need for a flexible, multifunctional and rapidly deployable army, which is also relevant. Necessary investments in materials are insisting so that the output that is being delivered today remains equally efficient. We have also learned that now is the time to make decisions and implement them. Belgian Defence must remain a relevant partner, relevant to our neighbouring countries, in the EU, in NATO and, above all, to all residents of our country. That relevance, ladies and gentlemen, is not determined, according to our party, by the amount of money given annually to defence. No, that relevance is determined by the way the available budget is spent efficiently. Doing less, but better, cutting to grow, this is our vision on the different parts of government and certainly on Defense. The difficult budgetary conditions force us to think about some essential choices. If we continue to moan in the margins and continue to use the cheese bowl left and right, the army will eventually become unliveable. Instead, let us go for a well-thought-out reform. Should we not dare to say that the Belgian army of the future must excel in specializations? After all, the Belgian army will always operate in cooperation with international partners within the European Union and NATO. Let us opt for an army that is not only a reliable partner, but also a real added value for our allies and for the inhabitants of our country. The Belgian contribution to international operations has always been very positive by our international partners. I was talking about the good output. Our activities in Afghanistan, Libya, Lebanon, Mali and recent Iraq are clear examples of this. This can continue to be the case if we find the right balance in expenditure between staff, resources and investment. Only then will we be able to invest smartly in a specialized army, which firmly subscribes to a European defence strategy. In this European strategy, we will have to think and talk about matters such as sovereignty and one command. However, this is subordinate to the fact that we can have one European army in the future, which can guarantee the physical integrity of all Belgians and all Europeans. The Open Vld is satisfied with the resolution before us and therefore fully supports it. It is an ambitious but sober text in the spirit of the coalition agreement. Our group would like to explain briefly two elements of the resolution. Paragraph 3 of the resolution, which is already contained in the coalition agreement, proposes a military programme law to record and pay for large investments over the next 10 to 15 years. Paragraph 7 of the resolution proposes that the proceeds of the real estate, e.g. barracks and domains, which may be rejected in the coming years, should be returned to the army in full in order to make investments. Ladies and gentlemen, these two points are, in our view, two proposals in which Parliament can give a great sign of confidence to the Belgian army. This resolution is a focal point between the coalition agreement, the hearings in Parliament and the strategic note which the Minister will shortly be explaining to the government and subsequently to Parliament. We look forward to this note with great impatience and expect an ambitious plan that will keep our army relevant for the next few decades.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u113	Mr President, Mr Vandenput, you have spoken about choices that Defence must make. Where are those choices in your resolution? I don't see them. You said that the Department of Defense can no longer handle the cheese dish. Mrs Rutten, your party chairman, has actually said the same thing, although in the media. When it comes to dealing with the question of whether we should make choices in this House, Members of this House, you do not want to do so. You give up forfait and give up, with your fine rhetoric of choices, to a resolution consisting of eleven points, which gives the government a blank cheque and which is to a large extent copy-paste of existing documents and decisions already taken, the government agreement and the policy paper. I do not think it is a good idea to make all kinds of fine statements in the media and in this gallery, but not to do your job in Parliament when it comes to the real issue. The following has just been said, if I am not mistaken by Mrs Grosemans.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u114	Mr De Vriendt, I expected that comment. You have made the same point, in other words, in committee. I'm not giving you any credit. I'm a football fanatic. They're never gonna pay off. I would like to explain what my chairman said and what is in the resolution, and what is perfectly in line with each other. Read the resolution carefully and you will see that we are talking about land, sea and air. However, it does not say that we all have to do all these things ourselves. As I said just now - and this is also what the resolution says - there must be far-reaching cooperation. It is entirely in addition to the issue that you are proclaiming that we are defending something that we do not really want to defend. It shows that you do not listen to your fellow Members in Parliament and that you only want to do your own thing, your own destructive work. In fact, I have not seen any motion for a resolution from you and your group. It is always easy to stand aside and comment on everything that is not right. You're here to be a moralist or a priest, but I haven't heard any proposals. I am still waiting for the first proposal from Ecolo-Green.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u115	Mr Vandenput, now I'm really offended. Sometimes I feel like you don't remember your own words. You said we had to make choices. Well, again, where are those choices in your resolution? Your chairman has literally said on the radio: "Is it so sensible to keep still an army, an air force and a navy?' That's a question she's asking. I do not think that a resolution should be used to ask these questions and leave everything open. No, a resolution serves to make those choices effective, to make decisions for itself, as a Parliament, and to pass those decisions in the form of a recommendation to the Minister. Of course you don't. In committee, you yourself said, Mr Vandenput, and I quote: 'This resolution does not make any statements.' That is punishment as a Member of Parliament! Then what are you doing in that committee, Mr Vandenput? Then why are you still working on the resolution if it does not make statements?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u116	If you quote me, quote me in full. I said, "Don't talk about how it's supposed to happen." That's up to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u117	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u118	Mr De Vriendt, it is not for me to defend Open Vld and Mrs Rutten's statements. The resolution states: "The aim is to ensure that an efficient Defence, which remains a credible partner of NATO, can continue to carry out military operations in the air, on the ground and at sea." I'd like to translate this for you. The three components are retained, unless you mean otherwise. So please do not say that this note does not make a clear choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u119	Mrs Grosemans, you have devoted more time to the procedure and how the resolutions have been drawn up than to the content of the resolution itself. We have not tabled a resolution ourselves. We deliberately did not do that. I said that in committee, and it is also in the report. It makes no sense to table three or four resolutions on this matter. What should have been done is to table a single resolution with a number of consensus decisions which both majority and opposition could support and which could be about the term of a legislature. That was, by the way, the question of defence to politics. Politicians have not met this demand, at least not at this stage. We shall see what the Minister's strategic plan brings. Still, it will be a strategic plan that is not supported by a resolution that was also approved by the opposition parties. That's too bad. It's a missed opportunity. You have just said, with regard to the sp.a., that their resolution emphasizes aid to the nation. Perhaps all of that can be true, and there are other things in that resolution, but at least they made a choice. We can then debate all these choices, but if the resolution is effective, Mr Yüksel, that we will continue to do everything with our army, then of course there will be no choice and the fact that the budgetary context of the army will no longer allow us to continue doing everything, especially if we also take account of the purchase of the fighters, which is also included in the government agreement. It is this majority's desire to spend EUR 5 to 6 billion on heavy combat aircraft, in times when there are many other societal needs. By the way, CD&V is the great champion, by the mouth of Secretary of State Pieter De Crem. As far as these choices are concerned, there is a very interesting article in the magazine De Militaire Spectator, which describes how the military arms race, known to us all, went in a very coordinated way at the time of the Cold War, with agreements within NATO. After the Cold War, the savings in the defence sector were made in the wild, without coordination and without agreement between the Member States of NATO or the Member States of the European Union. That creates a rather chaotic situation on the ground today. So coordination at international level is needed to see what Belgium needs to invest in. That makes sense to me. I would like to illustrate with a number of examples that certain countries are able to make these choices. Let us look at the situation in Norway. Norway has 24 500 soldiers, more or less comparable to the number of Belgian soldiers. Norway has opted for a very small army and for the development of a navy and an air force. They now have a smaller army than before, but they have modern equipment. So a choice was made away from the army to other components. New Zealand had 25 000 soldiers in 1991, now 8 500. Like Belgium, they have tried to keep up that blow, with savings and cutting everything. They were able to do so until 1999, but then the budget was no longer in place because they could no longer be operational. It was then chosen to opt for an army capable of foreign operations in the near region and a navy limited to its own economic zone. They have therefore opted for the abolition of air combat capacity. So they have made very radical choices in New Zealand, Norway just as well. Austria is fully committed to the army with a dozen battalions and to peacekeeping operations with the army abroad. They manage to permanently have 1 100 people abroad on an army of 23 000. According to the information I have at my disposal, that is the objective. They have an army capable of doing so. When we look at our ratio, of course, that is completely different. We manage to be active in foreign operations with about 300 people this year. So that's barely operational anymore. If we do not make choices and continue to use the cheese bowl, this operationality will only be further compromised. Austria has also chosen to have an air force limited to air-policing, i.e. without heavy fighters to go bombing. Ireland has 8 900 soldiers specializing in light infantry. There is also a ratio of 1 in 10 abroad. 850 military personnel are standing by permanently to participate in operations. No frigates, no transport and a very limited air force. The Air Force confines itself to air patrolling, search and rescue and air support to the police. So there are no fighter planes. Minister, what I want to demonstrate is that a country can perfectly make such far-reaching choices. Countries with a similar scale had no choice but to make such a choice at any given time. Don't think that the EUR 100 million extra you have been able to mobilise in budgetary control is the end of all the problems. This is at most a postponement of execution. There really is a vision. As a Parliament, we must be perfectly capable of making similar choices. I have just suggested to you why we should not agree, for example, to opt for one large barracks per province from the point of view of regional employment. We will maintain and further strengthen the marine cooperation we have: this is a unique collaboration of the Benelux countries worldwide. We must express our opinion on the way in which we engage in major foreign conflicts. Is that in the first line, like the Americans and the British, with heavy fighter planes going to bomb? Or is that another way? We already have a number of specialties today: special forces, demining, transport. These specialities can be further evaluated and developed. That requires choices on paper, Mr Vandenput. Minister, you will soon come forward with a strategic plan. Let me make it clear to you that you won't have any more excuses after that. You will no longer be able to refer to the savings context, to the difficult budgetary situation for defence, as the strategic plan will have to take this into account. Within one or two years, you cannot say again that we are going to be in trouble in terms of operationality, that we cannot replace a particular infrastructure, or that we need additional budget for the fighter planes or for the frigates, because your strategic plan must be based on the current budgetary timetable and must take this into account. If you want to maintain an operational, small, modern, efficient army, I recommend you to make effective radical choices and permanently store the cheese bowl in the drawer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u120	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me say a proverb: but the mountain has given birth to a mouse. So perhaps my statement will be as short or as long as the proposal for a majority resolution. The majority resolution really does not mean much. It has already been said here that it is a blank cheque or a carte blanche for the minister and the army summit. However, we consider it very important that Parliament retains an important role in such important discussions. In my opinion, the resolution shows very little respect for the expert speakers, who have given us their vision of the future of defence for weeks. It shows particularly little ambition because of the majority groups, because temporary choices are being made and because the things that have been described are not being appointed. Let me illustrate this with two examples from the committee. When asked what was meant by outsourcing what is not strictly military or by considering outsourcing certain tasks due to a shortage of personnel in five to ten years' time, there was no answer. When we also asked what investments are included in the proposal for a military programme law, it remained silent again. However, the same paragraph 3 of the resolution states that the majority, I quote, want to create stability and predictability.' That is not the case here at all. The majority groups do not dare to pronounce it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u121	Mr Top, you say that we did not want to say anything about outsourcing, but we have written that the Minister can work on that line of thinking. Many speakers have made suggestions during the hearings to outsource non-core tasks of Defence. Is it up to us to speak out on concrete tasks? I don't think so. I believe that Parliament should provide a clear framework and the Minister should continue to work with that framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u122	Mr Buysrogge, a resolution makes proposals, which are not decisions but at least encourage the Minister's vision, but if you only use those hollow words of outsourcing and outsourcing and do not make proposals yourself, that is very little. I even got the impression that responsibility for helping the nation was being pushed aside. That is a pity, because, through helping the nation, the military carry out missions within their own borders almost every day. After all, defence was created to protect the population. With help to the nation, the soldiers also prove their usefulness to their own people. I must also point out once again that there is very little consensus in the majority on the future of our Belgian army. There was no sign of gender and diversity, even though this was mentioned here. However, these matters are essential and very topical today. Fortunately, our amendment was adopted. At least we dare to propose choices in our motion for a resolution. This is absolutely necessary given the challenges and budgetary constraints our army faces. Mr Van der Maelen will go into this in more detail when he explains our proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, you understand where the shoe is pinching. For months we discussed the future of defence. Not only in the Chamber but above all in the staff it lives. The concern of the staff is enormous. The job and the future of a lot of people are at stake here. I therefore expected that the majority would have addressed the text with much more ambition, not only in terms of content but also in terms of timing. The proposal for a majority resolution came a month late, after which it asked for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u123	Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, Minister, allow me to summarize the events of the last week. During the week there were several press leaks that tried to push the policy in a certain direction. Then we received a resolution which is powerless and in which no choices are made. I think this is a dangerous combination. Parliament is there to carry out strong parliamentary control, but also to determine the direction of policy. This resolution is a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u124	Mr Top, you constantly say that the majority did not find consensus and was divided. There is a resolution by the majority parties here, so there was no division at all. The division was with the left wing parties. You completed a resolution very quickly and submitted it after a few days. Congratulations on that! But what I'm curious about is whether you asked the PS to sign this? If not, why not? If so, why didn't the PS co-sign? I would like to know why no consensus was found between the two socialist parties, the Flemish and Walloon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u125	Firstly, our resolution, as you requested in committee, was tabled before 4 March. Secondly, we are not debating our resolution here; we are not debating the opposition resolutions but the majority resolution. The conclusions I draw here are about the content of your resolution, which has no value at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u126	Your resolution is also on the agenda, isn't it? You put them on yourself, didn't you?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u127	We can talk about this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u128	My question is why no consensus has been found between the sp.a. and the PS. That's a very clear question, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u129	For the sake of clarity, we have each tabled a resolution and whether or not a consensus was reached on it should be debated. The opportunity is being created for this. But only your resolution was discussed in committee. It has been put forward, and against tradition our resolution has not been the first to be discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u130	Mr President, Mr Top, first of all, you are constantly talking about the fact that no choices are made in the resolution. Well, the resolution contains eleven concrete points to form a framework. I have also read your resolution, consisting of eight points. You should come and talk about your own resolution instead of constantly explaining what is not in the resolution before you and giving it your own interpretation. Furthermore, in terms of timing, the question is why you had to submit your resolution on 4 February, when it was announced at some point that the strategic note would not come at Easter but much later. As a result, the agenda has been postponed. So you have to explain to me why you have tabled a resolution without seeking consensus and without consulting the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u131	Mr Yüksel, for the record, I think you are wrong about the month. It was not February 4, 2015 but March 4, 2015. That was the deal. It is only on 4 March 2015 or just after that that we asked the question where the other resolutions were. At that time there was nothing and the agreement to move the point had not yet been made. It is only after our resolution was tabled, according to the agreements, that it was raised that your resolution was not ready and that it had yet to be tabled. That was the explanation in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I am glad to see you. We missed you in committee. Two days after our work in committee, I have again reread on my bench the text of the resolution tabled by the majority. I again hear some comments and explanations from their authors. There aren't a lot of them. You have to say it. And I once again want to say, "This is all about it!" All this work in committee, all these experts interviewed, these symposia organised by the minister himself to achieve this result, to this empty resolution of meaning, laconic, without ambition, without objective figures, without scoreboard and which therefore only sets out vague generalities even below the minister's general policy note. Is this really what the majority considers to be rigorous parliamentary work? If we were to adopt the proposal put forward by the majority today, we would not take seriously the personalities we have heard. We would not take seriously our own work and our own role as a parliament. I recall, as my colleagues have already done, that the National Defence Commission has led on this important issue, which is essential to the future of Belgium's external security and our contribution to international security, almost three months of thorough hearings. And in conclusion, this committee produced a particularly dense report, hundreds of pages, in particular with a view to formulating a genuine parliamentary contribution to the strategic plan to be prepared by the minister. In turn, the experts, the heads of the State Security Service, the SGRS, the officials of NATO, the European Defence Agency, the General Staff as well as other representatives of the Dutch staff, embassies, academics, military unions, the Belgian Security and Defence Industry, etc., were heard. It's a long list. In parallel with these hearings conducted by our commission, the Minister of Defence had also entrusted to a group of experts, the Wise Pen, – perhaps he mistrusted the results of our work – the task of drafting a document answering the following questions. These were interesting and important issues. We could have found answers in our resolution. Does Belgian society need a defence tool in 2030? This is an interesting question that you asked this group of experts. In the resolution, unfortunately, nothing can be found on this issue, Minister. If so, what should be the key missions? The answers are vague, it must be said, in the resolution of the majority. On the basis of today's reality, in what sense should Belgian Defence evolve? And again, I have to tell you that there is not much in the resolution of the majority. However, the Wise Pen's contributions and conclusions were presented and discussed before the majority's resolution was tabled and could have been based on them. The work was extremely interesting; I participated in the discussion. And yet, there is nothing in this resolution! So what will these experts, these academics, these ambassadors, our defence staff say about the conclusion and results of our parliamentary work? What will they think of Parliament's contribution to what I think is a major issue today? Because we cannot doubt, ladies and gentlemen, the seriousness and urgency of the issues and challenges facing Belgian Defence. It is experiencing a profound existential crisis. All of our interlocutors said so. And if nothing changes, Defence will soon be unable to respond, together with its partners, to the new and complex threats to our security. On behalf of the CDH, I tabled eighteen amendments which would have allowed Parliament to have a more proactive, more demanding, more precise text. But these were rejected by the majority, with the exception of a single amendment to strengthen our European industrial military equipment programmes. Only one amendment, all the others were rejected without even any discussion! In this way, my group, the CDH, but also other opposition parties – it must be stressed – wanted to make it possible for the majority, Parliament and our committee, despite everything, to present a resolution which has content and ambition and which is a true specification or, at the very least, a marked political vision, a path, a dashboard for the minister to draw up his strategic plan for the future of defence. Since that was what we were asked to do. We have seen that, as a matter of urgency, the majority wanted to table this resolution to mark the minister's path, but in reality, once again, it presented a blank page. I have therefore decided to resubmit in plenary the amendments which I find most significant in order to offer the majority the opportunity once again to regroup and so that Parliament can finally propose a strong, serious and precise text. The aim is to propose costed measures in the areas of mission redefinition, identification of new threats, international partnerships, budgetary means, investment, equipment renewal and human resources development. I would quickly like to mark with you, ladies and gentlemen, some of the elements that I believe are important and should have been included in this resolution. First, Defence must be part of an integrated approach to our external relations. I am talking about the famous 3D vision: defence, diplomacy and development. It would have been useful to recall that, in terms of external relations and international action, these three components must be able to link together in order to contribute to a more secure, equitable and human development-oriented world. I am resubmitting this amendment with a view to integrating Defence into this broader effort. Similarly, a foreign policy that is not supported by a credible defence cannot be conceived. The world has changed. Curiously, once again, the majority's motion for a resolution makes little mention of this development. The nature and intensity of the threats to the security of our country and the European Union and, more generally, to international security now prohibit any further decline in our defence capability. If we do not contribute to the stability and serenity of the world, we will have to outsource this mission to other countries, which will do so according to their methods, agendas and interests. And they'll make us pay for it politically. We cannot outsource all our missions and contributions in terms of international security, as we are increasingly doing today. We have believed, ladies and gentlemen, that peace in the European Union would mechanically lead to peace in Europe's environment. That turned out to be wrong. We have moved from a stable neighbourhood to an unstable and even threatening neighbourhood, both in the South, in the South-East and in the East, with these jihadist proto-states in a position to carry out operations far from their borders and a Russia that – admittedly – has become more aggressive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u133	The European Union and Belgium must also be concerned about certain crises – this is again not reflected at all in the resolution – which may seem more distant, but which are equally important for the defence of peace, our values, our interests, such as instability and violence in Central Africa, tensions in the China Sea, security and freedom of navigation on international maritime routes, the stakes of not only nuclear proliferation but also of a whole range of other weapons, and the challenges of resource control, including energy resources. A resolution that would have been serious would have mentioned all these issues, these threats, these developments, because the ambition was to draw the reasons why we must contribute to international security tomorrow. The very nature of these conflicts and threats has changed. From now on, these conflicts are largely hybrid, asymmetrical, transversal. They combine both state and non-state actors, terrorist groups, cyberattacks, indirect military interventions (proxi wars or suicide bomber actions). However, the majority's resolution merely cites three threats to the security of the world: the Islamist terrorist threat, cybersecurity and nuclear disarmament. Of course, these are three major threats, but it would have been interesting to have been able to explain, in a broader way, the challenges we are facing. So there is nothing on Ukraine. This is still extraordinary, when the Foreign Minister recently said in committee that we were no longer in a cold war situation but a "tied" war. This was his speech because of ongoing attacks and offensives, even though our F-16s are involved in the protection of the air sky in the Baltic States. We wonder what our F-16s are doing there, since it doesn't appear to be a security issue. Nothing about Central Africa either! Nothing about China's rise to power! Nothing about the increase in military budgets all over Europe, so many threats! For more than 20 years now, budgetary constraints have continued to be imposed on Belgian Defence, which has seen its budget and staff cut every time faster than was originally intended or planned. Defence was, therefore, rightly referred to as this budgetary adjustment variable. This has again been the case massively under this government. While all analysts, while the general staff at large, most politicians considered that it was no longer possible to reduce defence budgets even further without directly threatening the very existence of a real Belgian army, the prospects under this government go, alas, much further. The decrease in appropriations is 20 % over the legislature, i.e. 1.7 billion according to the Court of Auditors. Some, like Mr Ducrame, tried to challenge it in committee the day before yesterday, but that is the figure of the Court of Auditors. It illustrates our progressive inability to contribute to international defence and security. Our budgetary spending will increase from 0.66% of GDP to 0.5% of GDP. At the end of the legislature, we will pay as much for the pensions of our former members as for the expenses of National Defence. This situation needs to be realized. We are very far from Cardiff's goals. I believe that Belgium would have been honored to say that it could not fulfil these - the objectives of the NATO summit last September - rather than sign, when it knew that it would not achieve this 2% of GDP target. We are very far from it and we know that we will never reach that 2%. I think it would have been honourable to say that we would not reach them. However, in the resolution it would have been interesting to promote a stabilization of our defence spending. Nothing is said, absolutely nothing, not a single piece of information. They say we're going to try to increase investment, but there's nothing about stabilization or possible growth. I have proposed, through an amendment, that 1% of our GDP should be spent on defence expenditure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u134	Mr Dallemagne, I wanted to react to your intention to reach the 0.6% target. You have spoken at length about the things that should have been found in this resolution, namely the future occupations and the possible specializations of the army. We don't care whether the military budget should be 2% or 0.6%; what matters to us is what it does! If the 0.6% or 2% is spent buying F-16 replacement bombers, it's not for us! If they are dedicated to demining, intelligence in Africa, cybersecurity, why not? Let's talk about it! It is not a question of being fetishists of the number but fetishists of the function!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u135	You have already had the opportunity to develop this argument in committee, Mr Hellings. It's not about fetishism. The aim is to devote minimum resources to a major challenge for Belgium. You often intervene on issues of cooperation by insisting that 0.7 per cent should be respected in this area. You're right, and I'm not calling you a fetishist. When we have priorities, and personally I am putting Defence on the same footing as Cooperation because I think these are two important instruments, we must give a signal and the signal given today by the majority is negative. She did not mention it in the resolution; she did not dare to address the subject. It was said earlier that the majority agreed, but in reality they agreed on a blank page. Again, when it comes to the budget, nothing is said. It's not said we're going to stabilize the budget. Even that is not said! And much less we're going to try to follow a path of growth for Defence. I therefore believe that, in this area, it would have been healthy to have a modest objective. I propose to devote 1% of GDP to international security issues. Again, if we don't, others will do it for us. You have to realize that. With their agendas, their methods, their interests. I therefore believe that we should have a minimum of ambition in this area. I would also like to go back to a hallucinating oblivion – and the term is weak! [[– resolution of the majority.]] Belgian defence only makes sense if it is part of a true European defence. The very words "European defence" do not appear in the majority resolution. Nothing! Not a word about that! It is as if we were alone, Belgium, in trying to ensure our security, but as everyone has said, as we know, our defence has meaning only integrated into a European defence. You realize that you are drawing the next fifteen years of Belgian Defence and that the words "European defence" are not included in the developments or in the operative part of your resolution. It's just amazing! It is simply shocking to our European partners and to all those who have a minimum interest in the future of our collective security. However, the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, launched an appeal on 8 March, on which we could have bounced back. Europe today is not necessarily distinguished by a series of extremely ambitious initiatives, it is not blazing out of the woods, but there was an important proposal. It could have been supported by Belgium, which is one of the founding countries of the European Union. There was no interest on the part of Belgium in this proposal! I find this absolutely amazing! To support a European defence, since we know the constraints on European integration, the CDH has proposed to establish a strategic convergence plan with all our neighbouring countries. We have bilateral cooperation, we do what is called pooling and sharing with the Netherlands, France, Germany and Luxembourg. We collaborate and work with all these neighbouring countries. Rather than calling for this convergence plan, which would be useful and important as a contribution to European defence, in order to try to build a defence effort with these founding countries of the European Union, the majority resolution finally mentions only the Benelux. I'm falling on the floor! It was precisely Mr Ducrame's fight during the previous parliamentary term, not to lock us in this Benelux cooperation. Today, your motion for a resolution speaks only of that! We are not talking about France or Germany, we are talking only about Benelux. I have nothing against Benelux cooperation, on the contrary, but I simply note that it is difficult, that we do not necessarily have the same strategic visions, that we do not necessarily intervene in the same theatres of operations, that we have fundamental differences in some cases. On the other hand, we also have cooperation with France, where our pilots are trained. We have cooperation on satellite programmes with France and cooperation with Germany. You don't say a word about it in your resolution! Mr Ducrame, quite frankly, this too is a mistake which is no longer merely strategic but is a major political mistake in relation to the future of our defence. You lock yourself in the unique Benelux setting. I would also like to return to another element which I believe is extremely important for the future of our defence. Under the previous legislature, the central point of the finalization of the defence convergence plan, which had been presented by Pieter De Crem, was our international deployment capability. It was our ability to have an expeditionary force that could participate in international defence missions. He had made it the main objective. The main mission was to deploy 1,200 troops. There, too, nothing! No will. We are not told what our international deployment capacity will be, what is the minimum number of men we would be willing to deploy abroad. We are not saying anything to our interlocutors or partners who will read this resolution. Here too, I have proposed to mark the resolution and to come again with a modest contribution. I propose that we ensure that we have 1,000 men who can be deployed abroad. It's less than before. That's much less than ten years ago. It is indeed a little more than we are doing today. I suggest that, too, we have a much clearer proposal, much more marked and a little more voluntaristic than what is in the majority's proposal today. There is a whole series of other elements that I have already had the opportunity to present in committee. Of course, we must continue to specialize and modernize our army, but our interlocutors told us that we should not go too far in the specialization of our different military capabilities because we need to be able to continue to offer a service that can be integrated. Ways will have to be found to continue to modernize our air, naval, land force and medical capability, which is another complete omission of the resolution. There is nothing about the Medical Component, whereas it is a reference centre that is recognised by NATO as well as by the European Union, especially for the treatment of large burns. We could have had the ambition to be able to treat the injured NBCs in the event of a nuclear, bacteriological, chemical attack. We have a big hospital, we have recognized specialists. There is no mention even of this Medical Component in your resolution. I think, at the Military Hospital, they're going to consider this a real slap in relation to their work. But since it is a matter of finding resources and we know that they are rare, I made a very concrete proposal in our resolution. Since it is a question of having investment in defence (federal competence); since it is also a question of developing employment, maintaining an industrial capacity in Belgium, developing a capacity for defence research and development; and since it is also a question of involving the private sector in this field and therefore of regaining resources, both at the federal level and possibly at the level of industrial development, I proposed the creation of a fund. In fact, one of Wise Pen's experts had proposed the creation of a fund, as is the case in other countries, both public and private, both federal and federated, since industrial development is now largely dependent on federated entities. This fund would provide resources for National Defence. Indeed, we know that we will not find all the necessary resources only in the federal budget, but that we must also go to the private sector to find it, among other things. This proposal was on the table; it could be discussed and discussed. I wish I had the opinion of my colleagues, to know what they thought. There was no reaction. This amendment was simply voted against, without any debate, when the suggestion was made at the Colloquium at the Royal Military School. I thought that the proposal was clever, that we could find ways to invest in the great equipment we need at the defence level. It was rejected purely and simply, swept away. There was no comment from my colleagues in the majority. We must also ensure that our military quarters can be spread differently in our country. We know we're not gonna be able to keep all our military quarters. But we are very fond of some extremely important military bases: those of Florennes or Bastogne. We also want a new military quarter in Hainaut, which represents a large pool of jobs. We know that military quarters are a legacy of the Cold War and are all located in the north of the country. It was a matter of drawing a line to counter Russia's possible progress. There is no need to maintain their architecture and we may not be able to maintain them all; we are aware of this. In any case, a fair distribution between the regions should be promoted. For the work of memory, and that is why I quote Bastogne, it is important to keep some of these sites. As far as human resources are concerned, the quality of Belgian military personnel is internationally recognised. And here I wish to greet her, because she is exemplary. Having said that, we are facing the challenge of the ageing of these human resources. We know that efforts are being made in this area. However, it would have been interesting to mark this land more precisely. For example, since the average age of military personnel is 41 years and the average age of military personnel is 51 years, it would be wise to reduce the average age of military personnel within ten years. That would have been a relevant indicator. I see that the Minister of Defence is acquiescing. However, this amendment was rejected. This would have allowed human resources officials and the minister to see the direction to be taken. There is also the question of the attractiveness of the military profession. Others that I've talked about. I have tabled a series of amendments in this respect, and I will not go back to that. In conclusion, I do not have much illusions, because the majority may persist in their lack of ambition. If it maintains its motion for a resolution without any change, my group will abstain. We could have expected, after we were as hard as we were, that we would have opposed it. But we don't oppose emptiness, nothingness. We do not dwell on an empty resolution; we pass our path.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u136	Proposal for a resolution on the future of defence. Mr President, when I read this resolution, I have the impression that the future of defence is the attack. It's not just a semantic question. What was the conception of Defence? To defend a country was to ensure peace in that country; to have enough military forces not to be attacked by other forces. It was a certain conception of defence, of peace. Here we are far from it! Mr Ducrame, in your opinion, what is the word missing from this resolution?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u137	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u138	You're not quite there. The word "NATO", you find it almost every sentence or even every line. On the other hand, a surprisingly absent word from this resolution is the word "peace". The word "peace" is missing. Mr. Ducrame, since you sometimes despaired of having to wait after the holidays to hear new qualifiers for this government, I will please you. I think that if this is the government's course of action, it can be said that it is the Larbin government of NATO, or the valet of NATO if you prefer, or the lackey of NATO, or the towel rack of NATO. Do you have enough? I still read, as item 1, that the aim is to remain a reliable partner of NATO, even to carry out military operations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u139	Mr Van Hees, as much on your first point concerning peace, I can join you, as much on your second point, I will bring some nuances. Indeed, when we are NATO's red lantern in terms of military contributions, at this point red lantern that we could be picked up by the broom truck, because finally we are really the ones who make the least contribution – and this will obviously get worse – we cannot really say that we are NATO's lanterns.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u140	Mr. Dallemagne, I learned from the press that the F-16s were doing wonders during operations, to the point that one wondered why the F-35s were indispensable. We asked ourselves the question. "To remain a reliable partner of NATO, in order to carry out air, land and sea military operations", it is a certain concept of defence, but that actually approaches the attack more closely. What this resolution proposes is to continue along this path. I thought a resolution on the future of Defence was the perfect opportunity to question the way forward. Let us take the case of one of our neighbours, who is perhaps one of the best students of NATO, France. At one time, she was not really NATO's friend. However, in recent years alone, it has intervened in Chad in 2008, Afghanistan in 2009, Côte d'Ivoire in 2010, Libya in 2011, Mali and the Central African Republic in 2012 and 2013, Iraq and the Middle East in 2014. Each year, there is one or more military interventions. Belgium has followed this movement a little less eagerly, but we can mention the number of interventions by Belgium. Did it create a better world? Just look at the situation!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u141	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u142	Mrs Onkelinx, international solidarity is not to intervene militarily and to drop bombs. That is what Belgium is doing today! We can see how much freedom has progressed in view of the situation in Afghanistan, Libya! I quote MO magazine which mentions: "The war against terrorism has been a staggering failure with a proliferation of terrorist homes since 2001."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u143	Mr Van Hees, this is not the first time I have heard the PTB speak on international issues. I hear a major, fundamental contradiction, which does not surprise me knowing what the PTB is. When it comes to questions about human rights in Belgium, about social rights, you go up to barricades for all these questions, but as soon as it happens outside our borders, as soon as other peoples are crushed, as soon as human rights are violated outside our borders, for the PTB is: "Circulate, there is nothing to see and let's not interfere!" This reaction is systematic in all your interventions. (Applause from various benches)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u144	I see at least that I reconcile the majority with the opposition. I'm glad. Mr Dallemagne, what NATO is doing all over the world is not defending human rights, but rather flouting them. That is what we are opposed to.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u145	Mr Van Hees, Belgian military operations abroad are not NATO operations! Where are you going to get that? These are either bilateral or multilateral operations, but they are not conducted within the NATO framework. You fantasize!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u146	Mr Delperée, you know very well that this defence policy is led by the great powers. Sometimes this is done under official NATO cover, sometimes not. But it's still under the leadership of the great powers. Who are the great powers members of NATO? France, Germany, the United States.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u147	You're mixing everything!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u148	No, you're the one that mixes everything. Let us take a good example, Syria. It was necessary to bring down the Syrian regime, which was considered undemocratic. What is quite surprising is that Saudi Arabia, for example, would be a perfectly democratic regime... No problem arises there... There are daily beheadings but we must not intervene! Why should we intervene in Syria and not in Saudi Arabia? Because there are different interests in one country and the other. There are geopolitical interests, economic interests that play. On the one hand, they are our enemies and on the other, our allies. That's the difference!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u149	You are right to criticise certain interventions, but do you reject from the outset any intervention of international solidarity when it comes to defending oneself, defending freedoms and defending oneself against terrorism? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u150	Madame Onkelinx, you had to overthrow Assad at all costs! I remember Mr Reynders saying that the Syrian regime should be overthrown. Today's even worse! Every time we intervene, the situation gets worse!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u151	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u152	I'll answer you clearly! No, we must not intervene because every time we intervened, the situation worsened!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u153	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u154	You may be disturbed by reality, Mrs. Onkelinx, but these are the facts. You can take every country, every time we've intervened, it's worse! It was necessary to intervene at all costs in Syria, and today there is a war that has left 200,000 people dead and 1 million refugees. It is the fighters in Syria who today justify putting the army on the streets. What should Belgium do? Belgium should fundamentally change course. The problem of this resolution is not a lack of strategic vision, it is a bad strategic vision! I'll give you a few examples. We could stop arms deliveries to countries like Saudi Arabia. Instead of participating in military interventions, it would be better to specialize in peace and disarmament initiatives. Belgium has also been a model for banning cluster munitions. I also take the example of Switzerland. Switzerland may not be an excellent model to follow in banking. Nevertheless, it has mediators in conflict and collaborates in international humanitarian aid. One could also reform the army in the sense of a defensive army, i.e. non- offensive. I'm back to my first idea of organizing the defense, not the attack. Rather than developing research scenarios on how to fund fighter jets that can throw atomic bombs, we should think more about how to develop a truly defensive army. What are the needs? What form should such an army take? We must fight for nuclear-weapon-free zones, fight against nuclear peril. It's fundamental! What does the resolution say? She says one thing and her opposite in the same sentence. It is said that we must contribute to the development of a security architecture in Europe that works towards nuclear disarmament, in consultation with all NATO allies. NATO is known to have a fundamental nuclear option, including in Belgium. I invite you to one day organize an expedition to Kleine-Brogel to see what is there as weapons. This is also a problem in replacing the F-16s. In our view, there is no need to replace the F-16s. We can keep them very well. They are even judged to be exemplary planes in Syria. Why then does the government want to impose the F-35 on us, even if it does not make it clear? Why does the army want to impose it on us? Because it is NATO that wants to impose it. What is the advantage of the F-35, in addition to perhaps certain unfavorable considerations? In particular, they can carry nuclear missiles. That's the argument for choosing this plane. Of course, we are totally opposed to that. The PTB defends the withdrawal of NATO: the withdrawal of Belgium from NATO and the withdrawal of NATO from the country. There are indeed a number of European countries – Sweden, Finland, Ireland, Austria, Switzerland – that are not members of NATO. If it's possible for them, why not for us? Does not Belgium have this autonomy? Is follow-up so important to you that you cannot even conceive of leaving NATO? Finally, I think that the soldiers on the streets, as is the case today, is a rather serious anti-democratic drift. That we use soldiers to deal with certain natural disasters, for example in the event of flooding, I agree. But I'm afraid one day we'll put the soldiers on the streets because they'll be flooded with protesters. And that would be an unacceptable anti-democratic drift!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u155	Mr Van Hees, thank you, we were finally able to hear the views of your group and your party. It is a pity that this could not be done in committee. You will not be able to confirm it, but the motion for a resolution does take account of the hearings that have taken place in recent months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u156	I would simply like to make it clear to the honourable Member that I have come to the Defence Committee several times. Secondly, we are two for eleven standing committees, not to mention the special committees. So, excuse me for not having the gift of ubiquity!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u157	Mr Van Hees, that is why I have just thanked you for clarifying your position.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u158	I would like to reassure the honourable Member that at the PTB we will do everything possible to be much more numerous in the forthcoming elections and in all committees.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u159	Minister, during our hearings in January and February we heard confirmation that there is a need for a break in the trend for defence. There were signals from NATO, expressed at the latest summit in Wales, or from the EU through the EDA, the European Defence Agency. There are also signals from our people, expressed by all kinds of media, academics, the business world, the social partners and many other channels. What are the main characteristics of the trend break? The future is full of risk derivatives, which require modern and versatile defence. Terrorism, failed states, cyber threats will continue to call attention and make new demands on tomorrow's defence apparatus. The collective defence of Europe and its civilisation remains a priority. It is therefore necessary to re-invest in high-quality military capabilities. That is why the announced strategic plan and the military programme law are of fundamental importance. In an initial period, a reorientation to military core tasks is crucial and a rebalancing of defence expenditure has been identified. It will be a difficult period that will have to result in choices in defence with effects for the people within the Defense Department. Adequate attention should be paid to this together with the social partners. I would also like to say a word of thanks to all those who have passed through the last few months: academics, allies, army leaders, trade unions. Everyone threw their light on Defense from their own experience and expertise. I can assure you that one message was already a little more exciting than the other. One was a little more predictable than the other. All stressed the need to continue investing in Defense, now and in the future, for our safety, that of our children and of all our neighbours. In committee, some opposition members, like here, talked about a white paper for Defense. Ladies and gentlemen, I call our motion for a resolution not a white leaf, but a khaki leaf, with a future for Defence. Mr President, I would like to highlight a number of elements which prove that the resolution is a full-fledged khaki leaf. Firstly, we must remain a credible partner in NATO. We also want to work with all our allies. In terms of output, we still score very well to date, perhaps surprisingly. That was confirmed at the hearings. Our army is associated with efficiency, professionalism and quality. It has to stay that way. This requires a coherent input policy. The military programme law must answer that, Minister. Secondly, we want military operations in the air, on the ground and at sea, but not too far-reaching niche formation, but a sustainable and versatile defence, which focuses on military nuclear tasks. Thirdly, our resolution rightly focuses very much on human resources policy, in particular on the necessary influx of young people, the ageing population, the statute, the transition from public office, outsourcing and social dialogue. We also want to achieve a better balance between staff expenditure and investment on the one hand and the operation on the other. Fourthly, cybersecurity is an important issue. In the world of the future, there will be increasing threats in this area. Belgium must be able to arm itself against this, both in our civil society and in the defence sector. The center for cyber security, which the government establishes, plays an important coordinating role. The Minister of Defence has also recently expressed his desire to make this a top priority. I hope, Minister, and I trust, that the strategic note can provide an answer to that. Fifthly, we are also concerned about the pursuit of a European security architecture. We believe in far-reaching integration and cooperation with the Netherlands. We also believe in cooperation with other allies, neighbouring countries and countries further away. It must be our ambition to achieve nuclear disarmament. Mr President, Minister, I would like to sum up. In committee we were accused that this resolution does not deviate from the coalition agreement and I have just heard that accusation. The opposite would be surprising, wouldn't it? Of course, we use the coalition agreement as a guide. No one's gonna be surprised. Perhaps it is surprising that the coalition agreement is so visionary and that the statements we heard in the hearings confirm the content of the coalition agreement. Defence must also work within budgetary contours that are tight, perhaps even too tight. As far as the financial aspect is concerned, last weekend's budget control is a good thing for us. Last Tuesday, the Committee of the Regions approved the resolution. The committee also accepted a number of opposition amendments, specifically to call for extra attention on the one hand to industry and on the other to gender diversity in personnel policy. I certainly hope so, but perhaps I am a little naive that all Members of Parliament think so, so that this resolution can be approved in a broad sense. In this way, we as a Parliament make clear the framework within which the Minister should shape his strategic note.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u160	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that I am the first non-permanent member of the Defence Commission to speak today in the Chamber. You won't be surprised that I have an international perspective. I would also like to explain, as some Members have asked a few times, how we have come to our resolution. In fact, our resolution contains a vision. I agree with my fellow Members of the Defence Committee who say that the majority document now before us has a total lack of vision. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you have all been able to submit a text, and that was only because you have not made any choices. You have sailed around the problems, and that was the only way to present a text here today. I'll clarify that later. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with what I call a paradox. The paradox is as follows: when all the soldiers of the 28 EU Member States are counted together, 1.5 million soldiers are arrived at. That is the most numerous army in the world, even larger than that of the United States. These 28 European Member States together spend EUR 190 billion on defence. Ladies and gentlemen, that is the second largest budget in the world. It's three times higher than what Russia spends on defence. What is the output of that determination? Ladies and gentlemen, some of us have not been here very long, but when there were problems in the Balkans, we were not even able in Europe to ensure responsible action in our own region. Even if we put our armies and our little army together in Europe, to which we give so much money, we are still unable to put something credible on track. Why is that? The answer to that question is very simple. This is because defence planning is still taking place at national level, especially with regard to NATO agreements. I'll come back to that later. So our conclusion is that enough money is being spent on defence in Europe. It's just that it's important to use that money much better. In other words, there must be an end to the current situation where there are overlaps for certain capacities in Europe, while we do not have other capabilities necessary for modern defence. I believe that there is now a momentum in Europe that we should use to take the step towards European defence. We believe that any decision we take with regard to the Belgian army should be taken with a view to European defence. Why do I think there's a momentum? My fellow Members have already said it to me. We know it is true in Belgian politics, but certainly in European politics: crises are often needed to take certain difficult steps. We have no shortage of crises at the moment. I refer to the crisis at our eastern border. I refer to the crisis in the Middle East, with IS in Syria and Iraq and with a fall-out of so-called foreign fighters who are boys of ours, who are attacking here. There is also the legacy of Libya south of us. There is instability in Africa, from the Sahel countries to the Central African Republic. And, ladies and gentlemen, there is the economic crisis with budgetary deficits. All European countries have a budgetary problem of getting their defence financed. I repeat what some fellow Members have already said: that is the momentum at which a founding member of the European Union must say that the Treaty of Lisbon creates the opportunity to move forward towards a European defence. I would like to respond to what my colleague, the chairman of the Committee on Defence, said somewhat narrow and challengingly: we know the plan of the sp.a, they want to abolish the army or demote it. Ladies and gentlemen, where did we get the mustard? Here is a splendid document on which we base our resolution and our vision. This document was produced by a working group chaired by Solana. The consultant was Jaap de Hoop Scheffer. We do not belong to the parties who say that there is no need for military or defence. What does this document say? The document states that we must now try to move towards deeper, more comprehensive cooperation. We even talk about integration and ask for more interoperability, more standardisation in training and in terms of equipment, more unified command structures, more tasks and more full, deep, broad integration. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not go over all the points. I shall now move on to your resolution. Once again, that resolution lacks vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u161	Mr Van der Maelen, Mr Yüksel wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u162	Mr Van der Maelen, your vision is based on a document in which two NATO top men, Mr De Hoop Scheffer and Mr Solana, have contributed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u163	I'll be back in NATO later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u164	In your speech, you always condemn us linking ourselves to the NATO story and taking on our role as a loyal ally. That's contradictory.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u165	Mr Yüksel, you will hear what I will say about NATO. What I blame you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, is that, as I said, you do not dare to make the difficult, courageous choices. I'll serve you at your beck and call you NATO. You're hearing the signals from Washington, aren't you? It is signals that they, Americans, will focus their attention on Asia in the future. They ask those dear Europeans to note that Europe will not always and everywhere be able to count on American support. They therefore call on Europe to ensure that it can stand on its own feet. That's the message. Anyone who denies that message exists is someone who puts his head in the sand. Now that is the choice you want to avoid, with the current resources available in Belgium and in Europe, it is priceless to fulfil both NATO's wishes and to do what is necessary to develop a credible European defence. This can't be! Minister, that was not possible either, when the budget was EUR 3 or EUR 4 billion. After all, you know better than I do that even today there are major gaps, should the large European countries wish to act alone. They cannot do this without the support of the Americans in certain areas. So don't tell me it's possible, if it wasn't even possible when the budget was higher than it is now. Do not tell us that in the future it will be possible to meet all NATO's wishes and to do what is necessary to stand on our own feet. You just nodded when I said we should try to stand on our own two feet. Well, it can't be; neither can be financed. You keep saying that, but even with larger budgets it was not possible. Wel, show me the money. I read that your military are proposing to double the budget. Even with that double budget, Minister, you do not yet have the means to meet NATO's wishes and to do what is necessary to create a credible and independent European defence. You don't have those resources. What should we do with NATO? I am in favour of maintaining NATO, I am not naive, but we should go to a LAT relationship, living apart together. Some things will be done alone. If it depends on me, we will not participate if the Americans decide to fight a conflict in Asia within three, five or ten years. That the Americans will do that alone. If there is a problem in Africa, we must have the capacity to act alone. However, no one can exclude the fact that there is ever a problem where the United States and Europe feel that it needs to be tackled together. Then we must do so in the context of NATO. After all, it would be awesome to abolish an organisation that has done its services, even though I did not always give her a positive assessment. However, there have been times when it has done a positive job. Ladies and gentlemen, that is the first point and I note that this majority does not dare to draw conclusions from the fact that there is no money to finance both NATO's wishes and what is needed for a European defence. Secondly, the sp.a therefore opts for a European defence. Then we must avoid investing in something that we already have overcapacity in Europe in any investment decision we take in the future with regard to our reformed army. That is the negative wording. On the positive side, if we decide to invest in the future army, we will invest the best where there is a gap. That's our line. In this context, I am thinking of a topical item, in particular the replacement of the F-16. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to waste our time, but you are going to do so by means of a meaningless resolution. We are also tackling the difficult problems. What is the current situation? The 28 European Member States together have 1 600 fighter planes of at least the level of the best Russian aircraft. The Russians have 1 300 of them, of which their best planes match our planes of the lowest level. For the next five years, the European Member States have orders for 500 fighter planes, Russia for 300. My conclusion is this. Supposing there is ever a conflict with Russia, which must be fought out militaryly, I do not think that is likely, but one can never rule it out, and God saves us from it, then my conclusion is that we are not only numerically superior, but also qualitatively superior. With the aircraft we now have, we have a preponderance of Russia and these aircraft are certainly good enough to carry out orders in the Middle East, North Africa and elsewhere. Colleagues, we are consistent and say that there is no point in investing billions in the purchase of new fighter aircraft. The prices of these products are booming. I do not know who followed the debates in the Committee on Defence, but according to the Dutch Court of Auditors, an F-35 in the Netherlands costs EUR 124 million. Well, only by changing the price of the euro would that plane now cost EUR 146 million, and the Dutch get their planes at a lower price than we do because they have entered the development phase. If I can believe the military, 40 planes cost at least 6 billion euros. That's what I think is lost money. Those who are concerned with Belgian and European defence must know that if Belgium buys those aircraft, it will have a displacement effect, because our resources are very finite. Investing in something that is already over-capacity in Europe means that for other things, modern challenges such as cybersecurity, more money will be needed. If you think that we must do everything we have done in the past and that we can add new things, with less budget than we used to, you are telling yourself something. I repeat: show me the money! I will not follow you because I believe that we should not spend more money than we are spending now. If you want to spend more money, please tell me where you want to get that money. You don't have it! Thirdly and finally, the majority do not dare to choose and stick their heads in the sand. After all, the proposal for a resolution talks about both the army and the air force, as well as the naval force. I also hear signals from the military that they want to continue to do as much as they did in the past. You want to do that in a creative but transparent way. You make the decisions, but the invoice is for the government after 2019. You have to be a little correct and a little honest. Please take the financial consequences of your own decisions. What you cannot avoid is that, when you choose a European defence and when you invest in capabilities that are needed at European level, you will not be able to maintain both army and air force and naval force as before. You're gonna have to specialize. We do not find any mention of this in the text either. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I myself have been in the majority for a very long time. What really bothers me about you is that many Members of this House have started, for many years, as people who had an independent opinion in the new majority, under the motto: mind at zero, look at infinity and the finger at the green button to vote on the order of the government. It is embarrassing, ladies and gentlemen, that we are holding weeks of hearings, that we have heard various, very interesting statements and that you are not even dared to give a start of conclusion or direction! That is why it took so long before the motion for a resolution was adopted. You have tried to sit together and, as in so many areas, no agreement has been reached in the majority. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you are now putting to the vote a meaningless note in which no choices are made, and that is a very unfortunate matter, because an army is certainly a matter for Parliament and not just for the government. Stop subjugating you to choices made elsewhere outside our home. Stand up for your own opinion and conviction. Let us have a democratic debate here on what the army of the 21st century should be. Our vision is clear. It must become a European army. We need to start with more cooperation. If we do not have that courage, the government will give us bric-à-brac.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u166	Mr President, I will be very brief. I don't know if I should feel addressed in person, but I want to respond in any way. Mr van der Maelen, you say that we, as Members of Parliament, have absolutely no opinion and we are blindly pushing a button. We had an interesting exchange of views last Tuesday. You couldn't be there. I understand that, but we had an interesting exchange of views, with the motion for a resolution as a result. We have amended the text on the basis of that good discussion. In any case, we will not push that green button blindly. I'll push the khaki button on purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u167	Mr Buysrogge, if your motion for a resolution is to be adopted shortly, I have no doubt that you will push the green button, you will not set the bar as a Member of Parliament very high. I think that the reform of the army is a very important issue and as a Member of this House I wish to have a say on this, together with fellow Members of this House. You've abdicated. You have refused to settle the choices before you. The first choice is between NATO and the European Union. The second, decisive choice is one for a European defence in which we do not buy what is already available in the European Union. The third choice, which you do not dare to make, is to take into account the limited resources, to specialise and to make the specializations available to a credible European defence. None of these three choices you dare to make. Is there anyone who dares say that these are not fundamental choices that we will have to make? You don't want to make them. The government will make them for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u168	Mr van der Maelen, I have listened carefully to your speech. You're here to preach the revolution. You're getting impatient and nervous. In your resolution, you have three specific points, including specialisation and the overlap of materials. This is already being done today. We will continue to work on that. So don't come here preaching the revolution. We are in favour of a feasible exercise, in particular the gradual change. You simply have to wait for the strategic vision paper, in which the government will take decisions, which will largely meet your and our questions. Do not tell us that we do not do our job as MEPs. You've seen us on the committee. We do have an opinion, and we have put it on paper in our resolution. It is now up to the government, the Minister, to come to Parliament with a note.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u169	Mr. Yüksel, who are you taking me for? In the coalition agreement, which was approved here seven months ago, the Minister took on the commitment that there would be a future plan for the army within six months. Today we are seven months away and we do not know anything yet. I would have hoped that I would admit that in the Land Defence Committee there would have been a number of members of the new majority sitting with parliamentary balls, MEPs who, after hearing all the specialists, would have declared themselves to have an opinion, a vision and would have liked to debate this with the opposition and the minister. In a democracy, the best solutions come from the clash of ideas, ladies and gentlemen. You abdicate, however. You are presenting us today with a resolution which does not make any essential choice. That is not worthy of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u170	Mr van der Maelen, you know that I have a great deal of respect for you. We're almost as long, you're even a few more years longer than I am.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u171	That's nice to meet you, co-worker.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u172	However, what I cannot appreciate, including as an experienced Member of Parliament, is that you are trying to stigmatise young Members. Because they disagree with you, you say that they have no balls and apparently cannot resist a majority reflex.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u173	No, that's not true.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u174	By the way, you've been in government for 25 years, except for two years in current cases. You've been in the Chamber for 23 years. You approved all the defence budgets, including Minister Flahaut and the 1990s. Have you been so critical at the time?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u175	Yes, yes, yes, colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u176	Did you then have the policy...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u177	Ask Pieter De Crem. Ask Pieter De Crem how critical I was about defence, both when we were in the majority together and when we were on the committee together. Mr Ducarme, I take you as my witness. You were also a very present member of the Defence Committee. Mr Van Rompuy, you have misinterpreted my words. I did not tell my fellow Members that if they do not agree with me, they are wrong. I said they didn't have their own opinion. Their opinions may differ from mine. Then let's debate that. That's what I said. I do not ask that the 149 other Members of Parliament agree with me, but that everyone has the political courage to have their own opinion and to come to terms with it. I note that the majority does not dare to express an opinion on the reform of the army, which is one of the most important issues. We are being presented with a meaningless resolution, which opens the street to a unilateral decision by the government. Ladies and gentlemen, even if you are in the majority, you have a duty to do your task of monitoring. I am sorry to note that the audit task was not carried out in this dossier today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u178	Mr President, I shall be brief, since the debates have been lengthy in committee and also this evening. In fact, it's a strange evening to debate or fight on this important issue. I wanted to say from the outset that this debate on the future of Defence began under the best auspices. The budgetary adjustment still foresees an additional 100 million. Although I have been looking, I do not recall any previous budgetary control that has replenished the National Defence caisses to this level. In itself, this is an encouraging element. Mr Dallemagne, even if I wasn't there, I heard you. This Tuesday in committee, I obviously did not question 1.7 billion. I just indicated – and this is a collective responsibility – that, in the two fiscal years of the Di Rupo government, we had cut the Defence budget by more than 10%. I did not question these facts. In proportion, there are no more savings in this area than in other legislatures. A lot of criticism is being made.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u179	You are trying to make us believe that with 100 million, you will be able to absorb the dark cuts of 1.7 billion. Actually, with that $100 million, we're just paying the bills of the past. We don't pay for investments, we don't pay for operations; we don't pay for the future of Defence. You have to be able to say it, Mr. Ducrame. I have been surprised at one thing since the beginning of this legislature. I expected you to defend the defense a little more. You defended her a lot under the old legislature. I expected you not to deny the serious difficulties of the Defence. I heard you at the beginning of the legislature say, "Finally, with this government, we will be able to do what we want in defence." I do not remember how many times you have, in an extremely energetic way, affirmed all this. You were contradicted by your own minister, who himself had the common sense to remind us that, in reality, things were totally opposed to the things you were presenting; that, in reality, he was facing extremely serious, unprecedented difficulties; that the Defence was going straight into the wall, that she was in a state of clinical death. He told us, the Minister of Defence, while you denied that reality. I think the least we can do, in terms of the serious stakes, the state of defence today, what CHOD and many experts have told us, is to admit the reality of things. If we begin to admit the reality of things, then we may be able to start working together to find solutions for the future of Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u180	Mr Dallemagne, what I said was nothing more than to point out – because you are going to a great deal of coffee about the savings planned for this Parliament in terms of defence – that the responsibility for these savings is collective. And it's been going on for a while! And you have your share! This was particularly the case in terms of reduction: minus 10% over two fiscal years with the Di Rupo government! I wasn't saying any more. I repeat that an additional EUR 100 million for Defence as part of a budgetary adjustment is simply never seen! The text has been highly criticized. However, the debate was positive in committee. You have seen, Mr Dallemagne, that the majority has been open to a number of opposition amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u181	Mr. Ducrame is a little angry with the numbers. I have already said that he was not the only member of the MR who, obviously, had problems with the numbers. But I simply want to quote the Court of Auditors, which is still a neutral and indisputable source. She says that the decrease in the Defence budget under this legislature means that "in less than five years, this budget reduction will be equivalent to that observed in thirteen years, from 2000 to 2013". This is a two-and-a-half times higher rate of expenditure reduction than previously noted. You may continue to deny, but this is the observation of the Court of Auditors at the time the government's budget was delivered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u182	Look, we're gonna cut short! I indicated that I would join the table, which was produced in terms of comparison by experts from the ERM. Experts from the ERM who had produced a number of extremely hard reports on the issue of the budget. I'm not angry with the numbers and I hope you'll be reconciled with those. As far as this motion for a resolution is concerned, I would say that we have been quite open, Mr Dallemagne, despite all the malice you have been able to tell us. Because you made interesting proposals, we adopted one of your amendments. This was also the case with amendments of the Sp.a. fairly close to what can be found in the government agreement, in the defence chapter. The debate with the PS was a little more difficult, wasn't it, Mr Pirlot? I, too, have a great deal of esteem for you, as you know, but it is clear that I do not understand this form of aggression that you show in relation to this text, at the level of the vocabulary chosen: "nothing", "vacuum"... Is that necessary? I find that in your proposal – perhaps I am going to surprise you to say so publicly – you had interesting elements. If you had approached us more nuancedly, perhaps, indeed – and that was Mr. De Vriendt, who unfortunately had not tabled a resolution on this subject either – could we have done something more global, more collective. But this text is not empty. While waiting for the strategic plan to be produced by the minister and to be debated, there is an element that is in itself a real revolution in the organization of our defence. This revolution is the programmatic law. We will be able to have a longer-term vision of investment, a vision that will allow us to replace major equipment. In the government agreement, which remains the fundamental road map of this majority in this area, it indicates that we will replace the F-16s, that there will be work also at the level of the frigates. This long-term vision will allow us to stop encountering a number of known pitfalls in the past, such as investments in IVAs, MPPVs. Today, the logic of the sufficient minimum is problematic: we have not acquired enough. The phenomenon of wear and tear is problematic. There are not enough training, given the lack of vehicles. Questions also arise regarding the choices made for the NH90 (Research and Rescue). Did you make the right choices? A longer-term vision may allow us to have a stronger investment strategy. I have also heard a number of criticisms – I am not referring here to Mr. Van Hees; I was anti-NATO and I respect them – affirming that we had not been European enough. The Belgian defence tradition is fully respected. We continue to move forward on two fronts: on the one hand, NATO, on the other, the European Union and the European construction of defence. Beyond that, there are also a number of Benelux-wide cooperation and bilateral cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u183	I would like to make a small comment and to respond to Mr. Ducrame's comments on the replacement of the F-16s. During the various meetings of the Defence Commission that we attended, the minister told us that nothing was decided. So I'd like to know what's going on. Are we going to replace them or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u184	Mr Pirlot, this is included in the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u185	I preferred the government agreement. It is even weaker than the majority resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u186	Mr Pirlot, for your Easter, I am sending you the government agreement! The F-16 will indeed be replaced. The question is, by what and how many. This question remains entirely open today. I heard a number of parliamentarians say that the games were made. That's not true. We're a little into the intoxicated from that. Another element that has been criticized is that our ability to act outside would not be adequately defended. No! Both at the level of the government agreement and at the level of this resolution, it is clear that OPEX (external operations) remains central to our arrangements. It is today in Syria, Iraq, more precisely. I wonder about the position of the PS on this. Yes, a number of men were sent to the ground to form the Iraqi army. Naturally, these commitments are intended to be undertaken in the longer term. It is well known that the presence of this coalition in this area is essential to bring back Daesh. Mr Crusinière, you were still talking about it recently. I don't understand why you're so stuck on the fact that we can act outside and train the Iraqi army with men on the ground. All this philosophy can be found in the framework of the government agreement and in the proposals for resolutions. Mr. Minister, another fundamental and expected element of the strategic plan that you are going to table is the staff and their well-being, the social dialogue within the defence, the possibility for the military to be able to evolve their careers with real flexibility and, if necessary, to join other departments of the public service, if that is their choice. It's about making the lives of the military easier, but it's also about making a speech of truth with them and charting a perspective by telling them what Defence will be for them tomorrow. I think you're aware of that. It is therefore necessary to try to unblock National Defence in the work it could do in common with other services. That is something that we find in this motion for a resolution. I am thinking of closer collaboration with the State Security and other bodies. Out of respect for the profession of the military, we must also ensure that it is further tightened on the tasks of Defence. Outsourcing therefore makes sense. Besides, it's not new. Under the Di Rupo government, several missions were outsourced without taboo, simply out of pragmatism and in an effort to refocus Defence on its tasks. Moreover, for a long time, several of us have tried to answer a question, which is found in point 8 of the proposal. We're talking a lot about defence resources and budgets. Proposing a fund to re-use revenues from the disposal of surplus materiel and heritage infrastructure from National Defence for a portion of investment expenditures is a solid step forward. However, it had still not been crossed. Indeed, so far, several infrastructures in which Defence had sometimes invested heavily continued to be resold. The proceeds of the sale were not returned to the Defence budget. We are asking for this very clearly. It's an important element. It is clear that in this text we could probably have done more in terms of international vision. This has been criticized. This text, it seems to me, is based for its most part on a will concerning Belgian National Defence. With regard to a more international vision, a European vision, I hope that discussions will be held in committee in the run-up to this summer's European Defence Summit, with proposals focusing more on European integration in defence, and links with NATO. In fact, a new project could be undertaken in the run-up to this summit. Mr Pirlot, frankly! You said I made a declaration of love at the N-VA. It's a little exaggerated. What I was saying is that although the government agreement and this motion for a resolution indicate that the recommendations on language balance must be respected, it took a Defence Minister N-VA to improve the linguistic balance among the generals. It's quite extraordinary and I'm almost outraged. The trend is now about 60-40, which had not happened in many years. There is a clear agreement at this level and in the future I will, I hope you believe, be vigilant for the minister to continue in this direction. I had called on Mr Di Rupo, many times during the last parliamentary term, to try to move the lines in this area. This was not the case, so simply and without controversy. In conclusion, we expect this majority to be able to produce not a new small defence reform, but to finally install National Defence in its century. This will be our challenge in relation to the issue of both specialization and international cooperation. You will judge on a piecemeal basis: either we are reproducing a new small reform, which will have to be followed by new small reforms in the field of National Defence, or we are taking the necessary step so that Defence can continue to be fully operational through its components, but also to be involved in its missions of assistance to the Nation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u187	Mr President, I have good news and bad news. The good thing is that I am the last speaker and my speech will be very brief, unlike that of Mr Ducrame; the bad thing is that this debate will be resumed in a fortnight's time when the minister presents his note. I will make two general remarks and make two clarifications, with regard to the amendments that we have tabled. The first is in line with the remarks made by Mr. From Vriendt. It would have been preferable, in speaking of the army, namely a regal function, but also a function that, with the police in our federal state, has the right to life and death over other citizens, to have a resolution drafted and built together. That was not possible. It's a missed opportunity. Another general comment. This resolution, as well as the Minister's plan, will be an opportunity to make choices. As ecologists, we support a clear choice in favour of niches of excellence, contrary to the choice you make, namely the cheese grater. I will not repeat what our niches of excellence are, but they obviously have a bearing on mine clearance, intelligence, cybersecurity. We must choose, on the contrary, an army that always wants to do everything, all the time. Military spending in Europe remains extremely high. In the wake of what Mr. Van der Maelen gave as figures earlier, the Military Balance 2015 was presented at a meeting at the Egmont Palace last week. It appears that, in current world military spending, the United States spends $580 billion, China $129 billion and the four largest European countries (Great Britain, France, Germany and Italy) spend together $183 billion. That means that Europe of the Twenty-Hight spends enough money on military matters, Mr Dallemagne, to get to second place. So there's pooling and sharing to do and Belgium has to participate. To return to what has been said about NATO's place, clearly this majority makes NATO's choice. She doesn't say it so explicitly, but it's between the lines. For environmentalists, it is the European Union first, the United Nations obviously with it and, if necessary, NATO. It's very different from your vision. In relation to the two amendments that we want to defend, the first concerns point 6, namely the idea that the army's intelligence service can cooperate, from the point of view of cybersecurity, with foreign intelligence services. We propose that there be a no spy clause, that is, that if we can of course exchange information, the Allies - I think in particular the Americans - must commit themselves not to spying on us. There have been precedents where the Secret Service, the Prime Minister's Office, Foreign Affairs have been spied on by Allies - Great Britain and the United States. If we commit ourselves to going further in this collaboration with these secret services, they will have to commit themselves to prohibiting spying between Allies. The second amendment concerns the atomic bomb, a subject that we have a dearest interest in. It is known that the renewal of American atomic weapons is linked to the replacement of the F-16s. We are in favour of the abolition of the atomic weapon on Belgian soil and, in accordance with the bill that Mr. From Vriendt and I have deposited, we want to ban the handling, storage and transport of nuclear weapons. That is the meaning of Amendment No 37 that we have tabled. If you vote on them, we will vote on the resolution. If not, we will obviously vote against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u188	Does anyone else wish to speak in the context of the general discussion? Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u189	Mr President, I thank the members of the Defence Committee who have done a good job! Parliament's efforts to achieve a strategic vision of defence in Belgium, the effort made in a number of hearings, the effort made to reach a resolution already supported by the majority, are efforts as it should be in parliamentary work. In substance, this will certainly contribute to the vision that I will shortly present. The resolution adopted and a number of elements, as mentioned by Mr Ducarme, in the opposition resolutions, as well as those raised today by the opposition in the field of analysis, are valuable and contribute to the creation of a coherent vision of defence for our country. Points as a reliable partner remain within our international contexts such as the European Union, NATO and the United Nations, its obligations as a host country of many international organisations. We must continue to play our part in making our contribution in this context. The emphasis in the resolution on the need to achieve a more balanced relationship between staff costs, operating costs and investment costs is very important. It will also be in this way that we will effectively be able to make a healthy structure of defence in the future, which also respects our staff and can ensure the necessary well-being. I also share, to a large extent, the elements put forward today in connection with a European defence, but I would like to remind the great champions of it that it is difficult to sell his car first and then carpool it. If we get into a European story, our European partners will expect us to make the necessary contribution, both on the input side and on the output side. I thank you all for a cozy debate and I certainly look forward to having a first discussion in committee on the strategic vision of the future of defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u190	Mr President, Minister, first of all I would like to ask you if you could explain more about the timing of your strategic plan. Is that during the Easter recess or just after? What's the procedure? Will the plan be on the table of the Council of Ministers first and will it then go to Parliament? Secondly, I think it is important to ask on what budget you are going to come up with this strategic plan. I assume that a multiannual forecast will form the basis of the strategic plan. After all, investment choices will also be made in the strategic plan. So what budgetary options are you assuming?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u191	Mr President, Mr De Vriendt, for the answer to your first question, I do not know the numbers of the parliamentary questions that I have already answered on this subject in committee, including in your presence. I would like to reiterate that the coalition agreement stipulates that I will go to the government with a strategic vision within six months of the coalition agreement. Contrary to what has been said here today, the period from October to April is not yet six months and certainly not seven months. I will therefore present a strategic vision to the government after the Easter holiday, in which I will propose a number of choices and link a budget to them. It is at the moment that I get a clear direction and a clear framework from the government in which I can continue to work, that I will enter into the debate with Parliament and, as requested in the resolution, I will also discuss the future with the other stakeholders, the representatives of the military.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u192	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u193	(988/6) "Wouter De Vriendt cs" (988/6) "Wouter De Vriendt cs" (988/6) "Wouter De Vriendt cs" (988/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u194	"38" Wouter De Vriendt cs (988/6) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u195	The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u196	The next item is the vote on the appointment of the members of the European Parliament. Control body on police information. The next item is the election for the appointment of the members of the Police Information Review Body. The Supervisory Body shall be chaired by a magistrate of the courts and courts. In addition, the Supervisory Body is composed of a member of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy, two members of the local police (1 N and 1 F), two members of the federal police (1 N and 1 F) and two experts (1 N and 1 F). The plenary decided on 24 April 2014 that gender parity should be respected for these three last categories. The Supervisory Body shall be chaired by a judge of the courts and tribunals. The Supervisory Body is also composed of one member of the Privacy Commission, two members of the local police (1 F and 1 N), two members of the federal police (1 F and 1 N) and two experts (1 F and 1 N). On 24 April 2014, the plenary decided that for the last three categories, gender parity should be respected. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 11 December 2014 and 19 March 2015. Nominations were announced in plenary on December 11, 2014 and March 19, 2015. The candidates were heard on 14, 20 and 28 January 2015 and on 24 March 2015 in the Committee for the Interior, the General Affairs and the Public Administration. The Chair of the Committee reported on these hearings at the Conference of Presidents of 4 February 2015 and 25 March 2015. The candidates were heard on 14, 20 and 28 January 2015 and on 24 March 2015 in the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service. The chairman of the committee reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 4 February 2015 and 25 March 2015. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that: However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that: - that we should not vote in favour of the mandate of Member of the Commission for the protection of the personal environment. There is only one candidate for this mandate. Consequently, pursuant to Article 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Frank Schuermans was elected a member of the Supervisory Body on the police information. - there is no need for a vote for the term of office of a member of the Privacy Commission. Indeed, there is only one candidate for this term. I therefore declare Mr Frank Schuermans elected, pursuant to Rule 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, as a member of the Police Information Review Body. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. - that we should not vote for the French-speaking mandate of a member of the local police because of gender parity. On the Dutch side there are only male candidates and on the French side there is only one female candidate. The latter has therefore been elected. I declare Ms Rose-Marie Farineau, pursuant to Article 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure, elected as a member of the Supervisory Body on the police information. - that there is no reason to vote for the French-speaking term as a member of the local police because of respect for gender parity. On the Dutch-speaking side, there are only male candidates and on the French-speaking side, there is only one female candidate, so she is elected. I declare Ms. Rose-Marie Farineau elected, pursuant to rule 157.6 of the House's Rules of Procedure, as a member of the Police Information Review Body; Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. - that we should not vote for the French-speaking mandate of member of the federal police because of gender parity. On the Dutch side there are only male candidates and on the French side there is only one female candidate. The latter has therefore been elected. I declare Mrs Cécile Kruczynski, under Article 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure, elected as a member of the Supervisory Body for the police information. - that there is no reason to vote for the French-speaking mandate of a member of the federal police because of respect for gender parity. On the Dutch-speaking side, there are only male candidates and on the French-speaking side, there is only one female candidate, so she is elected. I declare Ms. Cécile Kruczynski elected, pursuant to rule 157.6 of the House's Rules of Procedure, as a member of the Police Information Review Body. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u197	We must: - appoint a chairman, - appoint one Dutch-speaking member for the mandate of the local police, - appoint one Dutch-speaking member for the mandate of the federal police, - appoint one Dutch-speaking member for the expert's mandate, and - appoint one French-speaking member for the expert's mandate. We must make the appointment: - a president, - a Dutch-speaking member for the term of office of a member of the local police, - a Dutch-speaking member for the term of office of a member of the Federal Police, - a Dutch-speaking member for the term of office of expert and - a French-speaking member to serve as an expert. For the last two mandates, respect gender parity. For the last two mandates, gender parity must be ensured. The document containing the names of the candidates (document No. 986/1) has been distributed. The document with the names of the petitioners (Doc. No 986/1) was distributed. The ballots have already been distributed. Ballot papers have already been distributed. Since the votes are secret, the ballots must not be signed. Since ballots are secret, ballots cannot be signed. First we have to put together one or two desks of voters by drawing lots. Each bureau shall be composed of four members. I propose, however, that the last two Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today should be nominated for the vote. We must first draw lots from one or two offices of deputy returning officers, each composed of four members, who will be responsible for the counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members to the bureau this day to take the ballots. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Ladies Nawal Ben Hamou and Yoleen Van Camp are appointed to record the votes. Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou and Ms. Yoleen Van Camp were appointed to vote. I suggest that the ballots be counted in the conference room, in the presence of the voters. I propose that you proceed to the counting of the ballots in the Conference Hall, in the presence of the deputy returning officers. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would ask every Member to place his unsigned ballot papers in the ballot boxes when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. At the call of his name, each member is asked to submit his unsigned ballot papers in the ballot boxes, going up to the rostrum, from my left to my right. I would point out that the votes cast are invalid on more than one candidate per mandate. I would remind you that the votes cast in favour of more than one candidate per term are invalid. I invite the secretaries to call from the names. I invite the secretaries to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u198	Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? I declare the vote closed. I invite the voters to proceed to the vote. I declare the ballot closed and invite the deputy returning officers to proceed with the counting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u199	[[At the request of the chairman of the Committee on Justice, I would like to propose the legislative proposal of Mr Willy Demeyer, Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mr Özlem Özen and Mr Éric Massin supplementing the law of 24 February 1921 on the marketing of toxins, sleeping and narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, disinfectants and antiseptics and substances which may be used for the illicit manufacture of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, with a view to the legal recognition of controlled consumer areas for drug users (No. 259/1) and the bill of Mr Willy Demeyer, Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mr Özlem Özen, and Mr Éric Massin supplementing the Law of 24 February 1921 on the marketing of toxins, sleepers and narcotics, psychotropic substances, disinfectants and antiseptics and substances which may be used for the illicit manufacture of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, with a view to the legal recognition of assisted treatment with diacetylmorphine (No. 260/1) refer to the Committee on Health, the Environment and Social Renewal for advice.]] [[At the request of the Chairman of the Committee on Justice, I propose that you refer the bill of Mr Willy Demeyer, Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mrs Özlem Özen and Mr Éric Massin supplementing the Act of 24 February 1921 concerning trafficking in poisonous, soporific, narcotic, psychotropic, disinfectant or antiseptic substances and substances which may be used for the illicit manufacture of narcotic and psychotropic substances, aiming at the legal recognition of places of supervised use for drug users (No 259/1) and the bill of Mr Willy Demeyer, Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mrs Özlem Özen and Mr Éric Massin supplementing the Act of 24 February 1921 concerning trafficking in poisonous, soporific, narcotic, psychotropic, disinfectant or antiseptic substances and substances which may be used for the illicit manufacture of narcotic and psychotropic substances, aiming at the legal recognition of treatment assisted by diacetylmorphine (No 260/1) to the Committee on the Environment, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on the Environment.]] Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. At the request of the chairman of the Committee on Health, the Environment and Social Renewal, I would like to propose the legislative proposal of Mrs Valerie Van Peel, Renate Hufkens and Yoleen Van Camp, Mr Jan Vercammen and Mrs Nathalie Muylle amending Royal Decree No. 78 of 10 November 1967 on the exercise of health care professions as regards compulsory professional liability insurance for doctors (No. 799/1) refer to the Committee on Business, Science Policy, Education, the National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Agriculture for advice. At the request of the Chairman of the Committee on Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society, I propose that you refer the bill of Mrs Valerie Van Peel, Mrs Renate Hufkens and Mrs Yoleen Van Camp, Mr Jan Vercammen and Mrs Nathalie Muylle amending Royal Decree No 78 of 10 November 1967 on the exercise of the health care professions with regard to the insurance of professional liability of doctors (No 799/1) to the Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture for opinion. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Pending the outcome of the secret ballot, we must suspend the sitting. If the result of the vote is not in order, then we have to do it again. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u200	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u201	Stemmen 134 Voters Blanco of ongeldig 7 White or invalid Valid 127 Valables Perfect majority 64 Absolute majority Mr Philippe Arnould received 122 votes. Mr Philippe Arnould obtained 122 votes. Mrs Christine Julien received three votes. Christine Julien won 3 votes. D Mr Philippe Arnould, who was given the absolute majority, was appointed chairman of the Supervisory Body on police information. Mr Philippe Arnould, having obtained an absolute majority, was declared president of the Police Information Review Body. Dutch-speaking member of local police Dutch-speaking member of the local police Mr Conseil Apers received 22 votes. Mr. Koenraad Apers obtained 22 votes. Mr Steven De Luyck received 108 votes. Mr Steven De Luyck obtained 108 votes. Mr Steven De Luyck, who has received the absolute majority, is declared a member of the Supervisory Body on police information. The member has the status of a Dutch-speaking member of the local police. Mr Steven De Luyck, having obtained an absolute majority, is hereby declared a member of the Police Information Review Body. This member is a Dutch-speaking member of the local police force. Dutch member of the federal police Dutch-speaking member of the Federal Police Mr Joan Allaert received 14 votes. Mr. Joan Allaert won 14 votes. Mr Stefan De Proft received one vote. Mr Stefan De Proft obtained one vote. Mr Peter Merckaert received 3 votes. Mr. Peter Merckaert obtained 3 votes. Mr Jaak Vandebosch has received 106 votes. Mr Jaak Vandebosch obtained 106 votes. Mr Yuri Van Nuffel received one vote. Mr. Joeri Van Nuffel obtained one vote. Mr Jaak Vandebosch, who has received the absolute majority, is declared a member of the Supervisory Body on police information. The member has the status of a Dutch-speaking member of the federal police. Mr Jaak Vandebosch, having obtained an absolute majority, is hereby declared a member of the Police Information Review Body. This member is a Dutch-speaking member of the Federal Police. Expert in Dutch [[Dutch-speaking expert]] Mr Dirk De Bot received 0 votes. Mr Dirk De Bot won 0 votes. Mr Koen Gorissen received 93 votes. Mr. Koen Gorissen obtained 93 votes. Mr Ronny Saelens received one vote. Mr Ronny Saelens obtained one vote. Mrs Ellen Van Dael received 30 votes. Ms Ellen Van Dael won 30 votes. Mr Koen Gorissen, who has received the absolute majority, is declared a member of the Supervisory Body on police information. The member has the status of Dutch-speaking expert. Mr Koen Gorissen, having obtained an absolute majority, was declared a member of the Police Information Review Body. This member is a Dutch-speaking expert. Franstalige expert Francophone expert Mr Samuel Buzitu received 0 votes. Mr Samuel Buzitu obtained 0 votes. Mr François Danieli received 23 votes. Mr. François Danieli won 23 votes. Mrs Veronica Delicata received 102 votes. Ms Veronica Delicata won 102 votes. Mr Thierry Mansvelt has received one vote. Mr Thierry Mansvelt obtained 1 vote. Mrs Veronica Delicata, who has received the absolute majority, is declared a member of the Supervisory Body on police information. The member shall have the status of a French-speaking expert. Since Ms. Veronica Delica obtained an absolute majority, she was declared a member of the Police Information Review Body. This member is a francophone expert.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u202	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I consider them to be adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals will be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 April 2015, I also propose the legislative proposal (Mrs Anne Dedry, Mr Muriel Gerkens and Mr Meyrem Almaci, Mr Kristof Calvo, Mr Georges Gilkinet, Mr Jean-Marc Nollet and Mrs Evita Willaert) amending the rules on the safeguarding of the social rights of carers, No. 1001/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u203	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 April 2015, I also propose that you take into consideration the bill (Ms Anne Dedry, Muriel Gerkens and Meyrem Almaci, MM. Kristof Calvo, Georges Gilkinet and Jean-Marc Nollet and Mrs Evita Willaert) amending the regulations with a view to safeguarding the social rights of close caregivers, No. 1001/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u204	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u205	Mr President, I would like to ask the urgent consideration of the draft law on carers. Not only is there a lot to be done in the media lately, but civil society organisations are very concerned about the government's efforts to combine work and care. I think Parliament should be able to do its job here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u206	Mrs Dedry, we shall sit down and speak on this in the usual way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u207	The interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration on 25 March 2015. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 25 March 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 023/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Philippe Pivin. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 023/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Philippe Pivin. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put that motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u208	Mr President, the majority has undertaken to implement the sixth state reform including the Finance Act. That has been confirmed again today. It seems to me, therefore, to be logical that the aspects of state reform which have not yet been implemented should also be taken into account by the government. With this motion, I am thinking of the transfer of parts of development cooperation. The previous state reform, the Lambermont agreement, agreed that they would be transferred to the Länder. That is also the case in the special law and in the financing law, which you have found to be so dear today and which you all want to carry out so loyally and properly. There can be no problem in supporting this motion of recommendation which seeks to implement without delay those parts of the financing act which transfer development cooperation to the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u209	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Everyone has -Does he vote and check his vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 90 Yes No. 44 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u210	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 2) Yes 81 Yes No. [[27]] No Abstentions 26 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 133/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill 133/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u211	Vote on Amendment No 35 by Sébastian Pirlot cs to insert recital A (n). (988/5) Vote on amendment No 35 by Sebastian Pirlot cs to insert a recital A (n). (988/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes [[35]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 39 by Georges Dallemagne at point 1. (988/6) Vote on Amendment No 39 by Georges Dallemagne in point 1. (988/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[28]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected and point 1 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and point 1 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 36 from Sébastian Pirlot to insert 1/1 (n). (988/5) Vote on Amendment No 36 by Sevastian Pirlot to insert a point 1/1 (n). (988/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u212	Mr President, under the previous parliamentary term, the adoption of this resolution by a large majority by this House really constituted a platform bringing together the visions of all parties of the majority of the time. The adoption of this text has thus made it possible to define clearly and with ambition a vision of the future of the Belgian army in the European evolution and mutation that it has already begun for several years. The resolution also gave a clear, ambitious and unequivocal mandate to the previous government in anticipation of the December 2013 European Council. It is therefore now a matter of continuing this European momentum, both human, operational, diplomatic, military and industrial.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u213	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 33 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u214	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u215	You voted in favour, Mrs Detiège. We will take that into account. Vote on Amendment No 40 from Georges Dallemagne to insert 1/1 (n). (988/6) Vote on Amendment No 40 by Georges Dallemagne to insert a point 1/1 (n). (988/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[47]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 41 from Georges Dallemagne to insert a point 1/2 (n). (988/6) Vote on Amendment No 41 by Georges Dallemagne to insert a point 1/2 (n). (988/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u216	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 42 from Georges Dallemagne to insert a point 3/1 (n). (988/6) Vote on Amendment No 42 by Georges Dallemagne to insert a point 3/1 (n). (988/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes [[27]] Yes No. 95 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 43 from Georges Dallemagne to insert a point 3/2 (n). (988/6) Vote on Amendment No 43 by Georges Dallemagne to insert a point 3/2 (n). (988/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u217	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 44 from Georges Dallemagne to insert a point 5/1 (n). (988/6) Vote on Amendment No 44 by Georges Dallemagne to insert a point 5/1 (n). (988/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes [[39]] Yes No. 86 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 37 by Wouter De Vriendt cs at point 7. (988/6) Vote on amendment No 37 by Wouter De Vriendt cs in point 7. (988/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes [[39]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u218	Mr President, as you have already understood, the whole of our group is abstaining.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u219	I take note of your statement of vote. Vote on Amendment No 45 from Georges Dallemagne to insert a point 8/1 (n). (988/6) Vote on Amendment No 45 by Georges Dallemagne to insert a point 8/1 (n). (988/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[35]] Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 46 from Georges Dallemagne to insert a point 9/1 (n). (988/6) Vote on Amendment No 46 by Georges Dallemagne to insert a point 9/1 (n). (988/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes [[47]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 38 by Wouter De Vriendt cs at point 10. (988/6) Vote on Amendment No 38 by Wouter De Vriendt cs to point 10. (988/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes [[37]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u220	Mr President, I voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u221	Mr President, I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u222	We'll take note of that. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u223	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes [[80]] Yes No. [[41]] No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (988/7) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (988/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u224	Mrs Patricia Ceysens voted in favour. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-02-54-plenair-ip037x.u225	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the week of 20 April 2015. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sittings of the week of 20 April 2015. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Tuesday, April 21, 2015 at 10.00 a.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Tuesday 21 April 2015 at 10 a.m.
