ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u1	Madam Minister, we will try to move as far as possible on the agenda. We could meet until 1:00 p.m. What do you think?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u2	It's a pleasure to be with you!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u3	I ask everyone to respect their speaking time, so that we can move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u4	Minister, we're going to spend part of the weekend together. I guess you're just as happy as I am. Recently, we learned that the railway line between Brussels Airport and Amsterdam via Rotterdam, The Hague and Schiphol should have been established last December following the agreement given by the Railway Safety and Interoperability Service, the Belgian national authority, on the additional rolling stock built for this traffic. Thanks to effective collaboration, locomotives will be chartered by the SNCB while the cars will be made available by the Batave railways. Sixteen trains will now link Brussels Airport to Amsterdam every day. In this regard, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Is this rail link now operational? If so, after several weeks of use, have you ever received any feedback in this regard? What are the filling rates? If you don't have these numbers right now, when do you think you can get them? Do you intend to pay particular attention to the analysis of this railway line?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u5	Madam President, my colleague, the Brussels-Amsterdam relationship with a stop at Brussels Airport has been in effect since 14 December 2014, with 16 daily round trips, as announced in September 2013. The travel equipment consists of old Dutch trainsets renovated. This relationship is a success: sales figures are constantly evolving. The average occupancy rate for January 2014 was more than 60% in the second grade. Most of us are seeing an increase in attendance. As with other international routes, this traffic is subject to daily monitoring and monitoring of compliance with performance standards. However, customer satisfaction studies and a volumetric study are under way to better understand customer expectations, to take into account their impressions in order to assess best the future development of the Belgian-Dutch market and to adjust, if necessary, the offer to these different parameters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We are attentive to the international connections that are so important to our regions and our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u7	Madam President, Madam Minister, we were recently informed that the SNCB Logistics Group, an independent subsidiary of SNCB, received some 600,000 euros in malus to pay to the Belgian State. This amount corresponds to a malus related to delays in the delivery of goods to its customers, as a result of the bonus-malus rules developed by the federal government. All railway operators are housed in the same sign, we hear it well, but your firm has announced your willingness to modify the bonus-malus system developed for the Belgian railway sector because it would be inappropriate. Minister, what about the payment of the malus claimed to B-Logistics? Is he on hold for now? The aim is, of course, to prevent counter-productive measures from undermining the future of a sector, that of rail freight, which is fighting for its survival. In this regard, what measures are you planning to put in place to replace these bonus-malus rules? What organizations are collaborating with your firm on this issue? Finally, do you intend to come and present the progress of these discussions in this Committee on Infrastructure? If so, can you provide us with an agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u8	Madam President, Mr Devin, the performance improvement system also known as the bonus-malus system, set up by the previous government to comply with European Directive 2001/14/EC, entered into force on 1 January 2015. The purpose of the system is to encourage railway undertakings and the infrastructure manager to minimize disruptions and to improve the performance of the railway network. During its first year of application, 2013, eleven stakeholders in the system were given a bonus, while five stakeholders, including SNCB Logistics, were required to pay for a malus. The latter paid a portion of the malus; recovery of the balance is under way. The Royal Decree of 9 December 2004 on the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity and the charge for the use of railway infrastructure which introduced the bonus-malus system provides that the Mobility and Transport FPS evaluates the system after the first two calendar years of its application. This evaluation was carried out by the Mobility and Transport FPS in close collaboration with Infrabel's service, which acts as an arbitrator in the event of a challenge to the allocation of delays. The evaluation report contains simulations of improvements to the system, which will allow me to propose shortly an amendment of the royal decree referred to above to the deliberation in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u9	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. The two years have passed, you have the first elements. I imagine that by May or June, you will be presenting a new proposal. Madam President, it would be good if we could set aside a moment for the SNCB Logistics file, if colleagues agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u10	It is true that questions have been raised on the issue. We'll see if we can make it. Otherwise, we could hold a mini-debate around the subject at the beginning of the year. This can be arranged with the minister's office. Of course, we are not in numbers to establish the order of business. But we can make a proposal by e-mail. That's a good idea, Mr Devin!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u11	The agreement provides for an evaluation after two years. The Minister may propose her remarks and amendments. I think it would be good if we could all discuss it together.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u12	It's noted. A proposal will be made to the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u13	Madam President, Madam Minister, we recently learned that the award of a rail security contract to the temporary business association Siemens-Cofely Fabricom by SNCB was found illegal by the Council of State. As a reminder, the award of this network equipment contract with the European ETCS safety system was approved by Infrabel in October 2014. In its judgment, the Council of State held, inter alia, that the principle of equal treatment of tenderers had been violated. In this regard, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Have you contacted SNCB following the announcement of the decision of the Council of State? Can you inform us about the measures taken by SNCB and your firm following this judgment? Can you provide us with the details of this rail security market (budgeted amount, areas affected by the installations, schedule for the implementation of the safety system)? Can you tell me if this deal will be revived? If so, do you have any information about the planned agenda for the recovery of this market? Can you also estimate the delay that this resumption of procedure will inevitably lead to the installation of the ETCS safety system on our railway lines? Can you finally share with us the other projects already identified by the SNCB which will be launched in the next legislature in order to improve the safety of trains and traffic and thus, de facto, of passengers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u14	Sir, you're asking me if I made contact with the SNCB following the announcement of this judgment. I would like to point out that the judgment was taken against a decision of the Board of Directors of Infrabel and not of SNCB. It goes without saying that I am in constant contact with the leaders of the railway companies and that the judgment has been the subject of my full attention. As you probably know, the Council of State has only ruled on the suspension of the decision of Infrabel's board of directors and has not yet ruled on the application for annulment of that decision. We await the decision of the Council of State before taking a position. Details of the market amounts and its extent have been widely reported in the newspapers. This is a €510 million market for the implementation of ETCS 2 on main railway lines throughout Belgium. This implementation will be carried out between 2015 and 2022. The implementation of the ETCS system throughout the rail network is a necessity. We will do everything possible to ensure that this market is realized as soon as possible by respecting the rights of everyone in this case, including by taking into account the appeals to the courts that may arise therefrom. Delays in judicial proceedings can hardly be assessed. We hope, however, that the objectives we have set ourselves to make the Belgian rail network safer can be met. The ETCS 2 contract obtains many new interlockings, i.e. new electronic signalling stations. It is planned in the masterplan to replace the old relay stations with electronic posts, between 2015 and 2025. Infrabel also plans to replace a maximum of level crossings, which must increase track safety, and to replace track circuits, another market launched by Infrabel awarded to Alstom.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u15	Minister, I understand that the procedure is under way. Do you have an estimate of the end date of this procedure in the Council of State? No? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u16	Madam President, Minister, you have on several occasions announced the creation of a task force in mid-2015 to assess the structural problems arising from the implementation of the new transport plan and to prepare well ahead of time the 2017 transport plan. This task force should bring together all regions. You also announced that you had asked SNCB to make proposals for adaptations that were to be considered the following weeks. Such adaptations should be taken into account in the preparation of the 2017 plan or before, if they can be made without fundamental modification of the 2017 plan. Minister, has SNCB made any adaptation proposals to you? If so, can some be applied now? Otherwise, when do you think you can get them? Where are you in the setting up of this task force? How will it be composed? Will representatives of civil society be invited? How will it work?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u17	Mrs Poncelet, the SNCB informs me that it has only provisional figures on the number of complaints about the new transport plan. In 2014, there were 2,168 complaints, of which 1,215 were registered prior to the introduction of the new transportation plan and 953 were subsequently registered. There were 3,773 complaints registered in 2015. No structural problems were identified with the new transport plan in terms of timetables. Many requests for adaptations relate to aspects which, for various reasons, had been raised before the transport plan was put into operation: the principles and structure of the transport plan, the budgetary context, etc. The working groups set up to analyse the situation in Forest and Mons have taken a number of steps to improve punctuality, which has been the case. As a result, only a few small changes have been made to fluidize traffic. The rate of occupancy of trains is constantly monitored and, in cases where chronic overoccupation is found, measures are taken to the extent that this is technically possible and the equipment required at this location is available. Since the introduction of the transport plan, the capacity of 53 trains has been increased. SNCB is currently conducting a long-term supply analysis. It is on this basis that the first main lines of the 2017 transport plan will be developed. As part of the preparation of the 2017 transportation plan, SNCB will learn from the experience of the 2014 transportation plan. It will be planned to integrate regional public transit companies as well as stakeholders into the process. According to the schedule established, a first contact with the Regions about the 2017 transport plan will take place as early as September 2015. As a reminder, the task force is set for mid-2015 and it is April 1st!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u18	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I wanted to know whether any reflections and analysis had already taken place on the establishment of the task force and who could sit on it. If I hear you correctly, we will not have any adaptations by the 2017 plan. We therefore have no hope that certain aspects of the railways will improve.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u19	On 5 February, a bilateral meeting was held in Brussels between Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, where cross-border issues were discussed. According to the press, this has been an important step forward in terms of cross-border mobility, particularly with regard to single pricing. I'm glad! Indeed, commuters travelling to Luxembourg on a daily basis by train face higher prices in Belgium than in the Grand Duchy. Unfortunately, this has a deterrent effect on the use of the train as a means of transport to our neighbours. It was announced that a working group would set up as a floor for the introduction of this single tariff between the two countries by July next. Could you tell us more? What is your status in setting up this working group? Who could benefit from this fee: subscription holders or all travellers travelling to Luxembourg? Who could handle the price difference? Do you intend to involve a paying third party?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u20	Dear colleague, a CFL-SNCB group has been working since January last to set up a cross-border subscription form with the possibility of employer intervention. The study has not yet reached the conclusion stage. I will examine these closely, as my Luxembourg counterpart and I have made this a priority issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u21	Madam Minister, thank you. I welcome these advances.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u22	Madam President, Madam Minister, when you came to Arlon on 26 January last I asked you about the problem of the Desiro train, which cannot operate in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for reasons of approval. You told me that this item would be discussed at the meetings scheduled for the following days with your counterparts from neighbouring countries. The issue of the approval of Desiro trainsets has been on the table for many years. While they have been at several times "on the point" of being certified, they are still not. At present, SNCB has adapted its relationship to Luxembourg by temporarily limiting IC trains to Arlon on line 162, where another train connects to Luxembourg. This type of problem is also noted on line 165. Your predecessor has already had the opportunity to clarify that there is a compatibility problem with the Belgian and Grand-Ducal security systems. By the end of 2013, SNCB committed to equip its entire rolling stock with the TBL1+ safety system. The system in force in Luxembourg is Memor II+. As a result of the installation of the TBL1+ system on AM96 motors assigned to the Brussels-Luxembourg relationship, the latter are now equipped with both systems and they must be re-certified in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. As regards the Desiro motors, which are equipped with the ETCS system and not with the Luxembourg Memor II+ system, the problem is still different since it appears that they can only be registered on the Luxembourg network when the ETCS is equipped with the ETCS. Your predecessor had also announced that Belgorail had to carry out tests and that the results of those tests had to be transmitted to the Luxembourg authorities. Minister, where are you on this file? Do you have the results of the tests performed by Belgorail? It is the responsibility of SNCB to apply for registration. Has SNCB submitted this request? If not, will you ask SNCB to do so? Can you tell us when this certification is likely to be obtained from the Grand-Ducal Authority?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u23	Ms Poncelet, with regard to traffic on the Luxembourg network, the Luxembourg National Security Agency, the Railway Administration (ACF) in this case, informed the operators active in Luxembourg on 27 February 2015 that the documents describing the management of the transitions to border crossing rights will be available in May 2015. This will allow SNCB to finalize the tenders for the approval of the rolling stock concerned and to place an order with the manufacturer. For the purpose of efficiency, SNCB shall charge the manufacturer for the approval of the equipment. The approval dossier and the related tests are highly technical in nature, for which only the manufacturer of the equipment has the required competence. In view of the limited resources available to both the ACF and the Société nationale des chemins de fer luxembourg (CFL) and the high number of types of equipment to be approved on the CFL network, following the decommissioning of the Memor II+ and the switchover of the supply voltage of the Arlon-Luxembourg section, SNCB will take the necessary measures to maintain traffic between Luxembourg and Belgium. These measures will be defined in collaboration with the CFL operator, based on the ETCS certification schedules to be communicated by manufacturers, and the limitations imposed by other stakeholders Belgorail, ACF, infrastructure managers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u24	Madam Minister, thank you. Would you have an idea of the timing of these measures that will be taken? No, you don't have an answer about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u25	Madam President, Madam Minister, the difficult situation on Belgian rail today – delays in trains, cancellations, increases in ticket prices, etc. – does not just cause victims among the users of the train. Today, train attendants, whose situation is already not very enviable, could lose an average of EUR 100 per month. Since 1 February 2015, the introduction of a single €7 surcharge on the price of any ticket issued on board encourages travellers to buy a ticket before boarding the train. Train attendants, however, receive commissions on the sales of these tickets on board. Madam Minister, you said that in 2013, SNCB paid €2.75 million in premiums of this kind for attendants, which on average corresponds to around €100 in premiums per attendant per month. Minister, does SNCB intend to introduce compensation for this loss of pay for attendants? What is your position on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u26	Madam President, Mr Devin, with the introduction of the tariff on board on 1 February, the SNCB would like to have the time to assess the impact of this new regulation. To date, it is still premature to define SNCB's position on this matter and to commit itself to a possible compensation for loss of pay in the case of train attendants. On the basis of the data in our possession, the average loss incurred by each attendant amounts to 33 euros net per month. It is further recalled that this allowance covered the issuance of transport tickets on the train and that this task will be very reduced in the future. This issue will be discussed during the social dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u27	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. How long do you give SNCB to assess this measure? Has anything been fixed yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u28	Nothing has been set, but, in my opinion, it will take a small year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u29	Question No 3085 by Mr Senesael is postponed, together with the attached question No 3143 by Mr Senesael. Van Hees. Questions Nos 3096, 3097 and 3099 by Mr. Van Hees are also postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u30	Madam President, Madam Minister, under the SNCB management contract (still in force), the railway operator should have submitted to the federal government by 31 December 2011 a study on the potential for the development of agglomeration rail traffic which, in Wallonia, concerns the very important agglomerations of Liège and Charleroi – I would point out to Mr Devin. Since this issue is of great importance for mobility strategies in Wallonia, the Walloon Minister of Mobility under the previous legislature wrote twice to your predecessor to ask him to communicate this study. As he had not received a response, he concluded that the study had not been carried out and therefore decided, on a regional budget basis, to launch his own study on the subject after ensuring that there was no duplication of effort. This so-called REL-REC study, with a rigorous methodology, is available online. It should be noted that, after the first meeting, the SNCB shone by its absence in the work of the accompanying committee, unlike Infrabel, who was active and collaborating throughout this study. Signs of the fact that it was carried out without taboo, but taking into account the specificities and local potentials, it produces very different projects between Charleroi and Liège. In the new government agreement that we know by heart, we are surprisingly resuming this priority. Indeed, it can be said that "the establishment of a Regional Express Network (RER) will be studied for the agglomerations of Antwerp, Charleroi, Ghent, and Liège". It seems to me that SNCB has initiated so-called "exploratory" contacts with the local authorities prior to the launch of a study on the rail services of the two agglomerations. Minister, do you confirm this information? Does the guiding principles of the REL-REC study serve as a basis for reflection or does the SNCB intend to pretend that nothing has happened by leaving a blank sheet, which would not be a positive sign of the proper use of public money, for which you often plead? If such a study is continued by SNCB, can you assure me of the active association of Wallonia and local authorities? If, in the past, SNCB has regularly chosen the ivory tower – it has to be recognised – it seems to me that, on the contrary, it is essential, in a modern way, for a federalism of cooperation that has been so lauded in recent days, that all the actors (public authorities, operators, representatives of users) are around the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u31	Mr Cheron, the SNCB informs me that it has met with the local authorities of the cities of Liège and Charleroi, in accordance with the mission entrusted under the federal government agreement. SNCB also stated that it had informed the Walloon Minister responsible for Mobility, Mr Di Antonio, of the start of RER studies. A meeting with the Minister for Infrastructure, Mr. Prévot, is scheduled for early April. These two studies aim to define the contours of a suburban rail offer as part of an intermodal mobility solution, as is the case for Brussels. SNCB informs me that it will take into account the studies available, in particular those commissioned by the Walloon Region, such as those commissioned by the cities. SNCB points out that its study will cover a wider scope including, in particular, the "Customer Information" and "Notebook Integration" components. SNCB stresses the importance of partnership with SRWT-TEC. A mobility solution cannot be limited to the rail component alone. SNCB has assured me that the Walloon Region, local authorities, SRWT-TEC or Infrabel are part of the working groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u32	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. I take note of the fact that, a priori, SNCB is willing to take note of the studies already carried out. I would like to stress this in view of the fact that, with the use of public funds, there is very often a proliferation of studies. I remember the violent diatribes of your colleague, Mr Borsus, when he was group leader, about the number of studies that had been carried out in the Walloon Region. I will therefore follow this file step by step to verify that the studies already carried out and which appear to have been carried out on the basis of a rigorous methodology are actually being used. I will not fail to return to the burden on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u33	Madam President, Minister, in 2023 domestic passenger transport will be liberalised. This means that SNCB will have to tolerate competition from other companies on the Belgian rail network. The aim of this federal government is to prepare SNCB for this. The coalition agreement makes the following clear: the public railway companies are being prepared internally for the liberalisation of the market. The government will support and complete the internal reorganisation of the rail group. An evaluation is foreseen by 2017. Firstly, what initiatives will you take during this legislature to prepare businesses for this liberalisation? Secondly, the government agreement states that the government will complete the internal reorganisation of the rail group. What will be the completion of this process?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u34	Madam President, the task of SNCB is to become a financially sound company and to improve the quality of services in order to compete with liberalisation. This will be addressed in various areas. I am currently working with SNCB and Infrabel on a modernisation plan which seeks efficient measures to reduce costs. At the same time, we are working on punctuality and a more customer-friendly commercial policy. The implementation of these measures will strengthen the competitiveness of SNCB with a view to gradual liberalisation and will logically lead to a number of adjustments in the organisation of both companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u35	Madam Minister, it is indeed almost time for the market to be opened up. That is a choice that has already been made. Today, however, SNCB does not seem to be ready at all. The service is inadequate, the trains are dirty, there are delays, the station environments are in poor condition and so on. It is good that this government wants to change that. The reforms which we hope will be reflected in your modernisation plan are indeed absolutely necessary if we are to be able to compete. You give a number of concrete examples, such as improving punctuality. I should also like to hope that we are moving towards a newer, more modern and more dynamic version of SNCB, to a company that is different from the unwieldy state-owned business we know today, otherwise we will not stand a chance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u36	Madam President, Minister, you know that I attach a great deal of importance to this dossier. I've questioned you about it on a regular basis. I refer once again to the multiannual investment plan of the SNCB Group, which is being revised this year. There would be conversations going on, as you have stated on several occasions. The regions may, as we know, put their priorities forward, but it has not yet been decided which ones will be selected. From your previous answers, you seem to be calling for co-financing. I have already told you that I think this is contrary to the original agreement that priority projects should be financed by federal funds. Consultation between the federal government and the regions seems to me to be more than appropriate. Madam Minister, my question is similar to a number of previous questions. Apparently, the formal talks haven't started today. The Regions, at least Flanders, did not receive a formal request for co-financing from you. However, the Flemish Government is a party asking for consultations to be held in the short term. When will you specifically invite the Regions to a consultation on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u37	Madam President, in view of the budgetary framework, it is necessary to revise the draft Investment Plan 2012-2025. This also applies to the rail projects proposed by the Regions and to the way in which the projects could be financed in a different way from the traditional public funds. This investment plan will be reviewed with knowledge of the modernisation plan for Infrabel and SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u38	Madam Secretary, with all due respect, you gave me an answer that won't get me anywhere. I actually asked for more concrete data. I still can't hear it today. I can only hope that you will work effectively behind the scenes on these contacts and that we will get news about what is being discussed there. I refer once again to your colleague, Flemish Minister for Mobility Ben Weyts, who has repeatedly stressed in the Flemish Parliament that it is not intended to finance these projects with Flemish funds for the time being. I hope, Madam Minister, that in the very short term we will get concrete data from you, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u39	Madam President, Minister, pursuant to section 21 of the Royal Order of July 20, 2001, the government determines the dimensions, shape, colour, registration and graphic design of registration marks by means of a ministerial order. This is the Ministerial Decree of 23 July 2001 on the registration of vehicles. Article 3(3) specifies that, in addition to the registration number, the plate contains a blue rectangular area containing the twelve European stars and a white letter B. Some motorists in the North, however, replace this B with the sign VL, which is an offence. In response to a written question in February, the Minister of the Interior explained that this offence must be punished with an immediate charge of 55 euros and that a royal decree is being drawn up for this offence to move to the second level, i.e. it is liable to an immediate charge of 110 euros. In parallel to this question, the Minister of the Interior made this statement on a social network on 12 March: "Let me be very clear: I have never advocated a doubling of the fines for those who place a VL on the B of their car. It was just an idea. It is true that there was a draft royal decree of the previous government. In consultation with my colleague from Mobility, we can certainly withdraw this project." I remain concerned about this contradictory information. The Royal Decree itself does not fall within the competence of the Minister of the Interior. The latter is concerned only to the extent that the police have to ascertain the offences. The order in question falls within your jurisdiction. That is why I am asking you today to clarify this situation. Minister, are you going to propose a royal order on this matter? If so, what will be the content? What is your reaction to the Minister of the Interior's statements? Have you ever had any contact with him about this? This question may come a little late, but it was introduced when this topic was topical.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u40	Mrs Pas will not come to ask her question No. 3156.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u41	Madam, following an amendment in 2013 of Article 29, § 1, of the Law of 16 March 1968 on the Road Traffic Police, it is now possible to classify in the second degree the conduct in the matter of registration which makes it possible to avoid prosecution. As a result, a royal decree is being prepared but does not include the reflection of my colleague from the interior. It envisages categorizing in the second degree the behaviours most likely to meet the criteria of the law, such as rolling without a plate or making changes to it that make it illegible. The European number plate is defined at European level. The country code and the European symbol on a blue background form an integral part of the number plate and should therefore not be changed. That is why a change is also punishable and the number plate can be rejected during the technical check. It is also important for the cross-border prosecution of road traffic offences, which requires a clear identification of the country of registration of the vehicle. The design of KB will be discussed effectively in the Council of Ministers with all concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u42	Thank you, Minister. It has the merit of being clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u43	I asked Mrs Temmerman to come and ask her question, because she then has to go to the Conference of Presidents. MM. Yüksel and Van den Bergh, can I give him the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u44	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for asking me my question. Madam Minister, our country is still among the worst pupils in Europe in terms of road safety. In addition to alcohol and drug use, excessive speed is one of the main causes of death. More speed checks by manned and unmanned camera dynamometers certainly improve road safety. The Flemish government is planning more and more trajectories. These will certainly improve road safety. In Wallonia, too, more flash poles are emerging. More controls mean more work for police, prosecutors and police judges anyway. If traffic offenders pay neither the immediate collection nor the friendly settlement proposal, they shall be referred to the police court. For the province of East Flanders, this amounts to 25 000 to 30 000 sentences per year. The Attorney General is very formal: more judgments cannot be dealt with by the courts unless there are more police judges. In order to avoid too many violations being dismissed by the police judge for lack of time, the police are imposing quotas in conjunction with the police, so that the police's work is not in vain and that it is certain that when a PV is drawn up there will also be prosecution in court. A different system is used in the Netherlands. That is where such minor traffic offences are dealt with largely entirely administratively. From the moment when the proposal for an amicable settlement is not dealt with and there has been no explicit opposition to it because it is said that the offence has not been committed, the offender is given an enforceable title which is sent to the bailiff who can immediately collect it. In the Netherlands, almost all minor offences are dealt with in this way. In Belgium, that is not the case at all. According to the Ghent Attorney General there is legislation but there are still no implementing decisions. I come to my questions, Madam President. Is that correct? What implementing decisions do you think are still necessary? If so, are the decisions being prepared? If that is the case, do you have a certain timing for that? After all, it could be a solution to the many offences that have been committed and also a solution to the police courts that have been asked to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u45	Madam President, Mrs Temmerman, your question refers to the order for payment, so that unpaid fines can be recovered immediately, without the need for a conviction by the police court. The principle of the payment order was already introduced during the previous legislature by the law of 22 April 2012 amending the law of 16 March 1968 on road traffic police. That law entered into force theoretically on 1 January 2013. However, the payment order is not in practice applied by the public prosecutors because the law adopted contains a number of shortcomings. From the time the current government took office, I asked my administration to prepare, together with the Justice Department, a draft law to repair the law that has already been adopted. I will shortly submit the draft law to the Council of Ministers, after which the opinion of the Council of State and the opinion of the Regions will be sought. The intention is to submit the draft law to Parliament before the parliamentary recess. There is no need for implementing acts so that the adopted law can be implemented directly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u46	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. According to the Attorney General, the implementing decisions are missing. He didn't talk about the fact that the law would have flaws. He made it very clear that the implementing decisions were missing. However, if you come up with a new law which can be adopted quickly and which can enter into force immediately, we will thus take a step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u47	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that it is not easy to become a pilot and to use it correctly. This has only been demonstrated in recent weeks by a reportage on the VRT. The training to become a pilot is very expensive. Only basic training costs EUR 90 000. Banks are not really inclined to grant such risky loans at these times. This financial threshold deters many potential pilots, even after they have already been hit by all the other selection tests. In our country we have very accessible higher education. We are at the top of this, also within the OECD, and we are, of course, praised for that. However, this does not apply to pilot training. The sector therefore calls for public support so that young talented people can live up to their dreams and work as pilots in the aviation sector. I have two questions, Madam Secretary. Are you aware of the problem? Have the pilot schools contacted you in this matter? How can the government respond to the demands of pilot schools?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u48	Madam President, Mr Yüksel, I can tell you that I am aware of the cost of training as a line pilot. The total cost is high because the cost of renting an aircraft for practical training, unlike other vocational training, is very high. Line pilot training provides a minimum of 195 flight hours. Supporting schools is normally a competence of the Communities or Regions. A dossier was submitted by my administration to the Minister responsible for finance a few years ago to reduce the VAT on aircraft fuel used for training from 21% to 6%. I will remind you of this to the Minister responsible. Improved tax deductibility could also be applied to these training courses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u49	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I understand that the regions in particular are responsible for such training. As far as the tax approach is concerned, you will obviously do what is necessary to meet demand from the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u50	Madam Secretary, this is a follow-up question, following on from last week's discussion. I had not asked a number of elements of the reply in advance, therefore this question in the hope that you would have information to answer it. You said there was an analysis of the conflict between the two gentlemen. On the subject of this question we also read in the press. How many members of staff are the Office of the President of SNCB? Under which direction are the staff members hierarchical? After all, we saw that there could be interference from members who support the President in relation to others. What is their task package? What is the price of support? What working arrangements have been made between this cell and the other SNCB services?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u51	I will not confine my reply to the Cabinet of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, but will also refer to the B Chairman Office, whose organisation chart was approved by the Board of Directors on 8 January 2014. There are 14 persons who are divided into the secretariat of the administrative bodies, nine persons and five persons in the President's office. The total cost of the service on an annual basis is € 1.04 million. The secretariat of the administrative bodies shall have a Secretary-General as well as secretarial, translation and messenger functions. The president's cabinet has two advisers, one secretary and two drivers. One of the advisors is fixed in the degree of first appointed engineer and performs the function of head of Chairman's Office, head of the planning department. He joined the president's support cell in June 1998 and has been a member of the president's support cell since May 2010. The second consultant has been contracted and employed since 2014 as a special advisor on administrative and social matters. The B Chairman Office works not only for the management board, but also for the management committee and other committees such as the audit committee, the appointment and remuneration committee and the strategic committee. As part of the savings measures to be implemented within the SNCB Group, the managing director and the chairman have committed themselves to reducing both the staffing of the service and the associated burdens. I met them both on Monday in my cabinet and I expect their concrete proposals very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u52	Madam Minister, I will also put this question to your colleague, Mr De Croo, to see what that is like in other public companies and because I think that comparison could be interesting. I will replicate very restrictively, with two reservations. Firstly, I note that there are operational tasks with the chairman who I believe should be with the CEO or management, there is an overlap there that is not healthy. Secondly, I find it strange that the chairman of the board has two drivers, but that is probably a detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u53	Madam Minister, there is a lot happening in the area of self-driving cars and it is happening very quickly. Almost every week there are articles about manufacturers performing experiments or doing tests with self-driving cars. In De Tijd of 21 March, an article was published in which there was talk of Tesla.In the near future they could also drive on our Belgian roads in an independent way. The big question was always whether this could be allowed within the existing Road Code and within the rules of the Vienna Convention. I refer to Articles 8.1 and 8.3 of the Road Code and Article 8 of the Vienna Convention. A little to our surprise, the FPS Mobility in the newspaper stated that it should be possible to allow self-driving cars within the current legislation and the legislation should not be amended to that effect, contrary to previous reports. Madam Minister, it would be good if you could clarify this with answers to the following questions. First of all, is this news from The Time of March 21st? Secondly, what does the FPS Mobility base itself on to say that self-driving cars are allowed, as long as someone sits on the driver's seat? Thirdly, what is allowed and what is not allowed in the framework of autonomous cars? How does this relate to the Vienna Convention and the amendment tabled to allow self-driving cars? Fourthly, Tesla says in De Tijd to allow autonomous driving only on motorways, but not in the built-up area to take no safety risks. That doesn't seem illogical, but it is curious that the car manufacturer himself decides where it can and can't do it. I think the government should play a role in this. Fifthly, in the Netherlands a kind of framework law has been drawn up in which self-driving cars are allowed. At a later stage, the output of the test project will serve to adapt the legislation. Is it intended to proceed in a similar way in Belgium, as has happened with the LZVs? Finally, a pilot project on self-driving vehicles would also be launched in Belgium. In this context, the Minister served with the Regions, Febiac, Assuralia and Agoria. What has been the outcome of this meeting? What are the next steps? What is the timing of the pilot project? Are there any changes to the legislation needed at federal level to allow a pilot project? What impact does FPS Mobility's vision have on this pilot project? So far, a whole series of questions, Madam Secretary. Basically, we ask what is needed and what is the state of play about this interesting evolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u54	Mr Van den Bergh, the coverage in De Tijd is correct. It is stated neither in the Road Code nor in the International Road Convention that the driver should always have the steering wheel in his own hands, but he must be able to drive the vehicle. That also means that no one can sit on the driver's seat. The driver must therefore have a driving licence, be physically fit and so on. Article 8.5 of the Vienna Convention, as amended by the 1971 European Agreement supplementing that Convention, states that the driver must have control over the vehicle in a way that allows the driver to drive the vehicle safely. Article 8.3 of the Belgian Road Code states that the driver must be able to steer and carry out all necessary driving movements. He must also be in good control of the vehicle. All these provisions do not prevent the driver from being assisted by automated systems that assist him in carrying out the driving task, such as ABS, ESP, automatic emergency stop, adaptive cruise control, etc. The amendment to the treaty to which you refer is not intended to allow self-driving cars. The aim is merely to clarify that the automatic systems which assist the driver in carrying out the driving task are not contrary to the principle that the driver must have control over the vehicle. Driving without a driver is not allowed. Both the international convention and the traffic regulations require the presence of a driver in the vehicle. Vehicles are only allowed to travel if they have been Homologised or, in the case of prototypes, if they have been approved by the competent authorities. The conditions of such authorisation may relate both to the technical requirements and to the places where those vehicles are allowed to drive. The legal framework in the Netherlands refers to the Rijkswaterstaat to give individual authorisations for testing autonomous vehicles. In Belgium, we can allow this on the basis of the technical regulations. At the FPS Mobility and Transport, a working group was set up in which the various stakeholders, including the Regions, are represented. The aim is to coordinate the procedure for applying for such tests at both a technical and an infrastructure level. At present there is no need for any legal amendments to the technical regulations or to the traffic regulations. I would add that I visited the Netherlands last week when I was able to see the demonstration of two following trucks. The second was without a driver. In addition, the second week of Easter holidays, I will go with Audi to Germany to have the demonstration of a car without a driver. We are willing to move forward on this issue, but unfortunately manufacturers are going far too fast compared to the legislator.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u55	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clear answer. I believe that I can interpret it in such a way that the current versions of self-driving vehicles do not require an immediate change of law, since these systems can still be regarded as auxiliary systems, as automatic systems that assist the driver. There must still be a driver. In the future, depending on the experiments that are already taking place today, the car may be completely autonomous and there will no longer be a driver. At that time, however, the regulation will have to be reviewed and the Vienna International Convention will have to be amended. I believe that we, as legislators, have a duty to keep a close eye on such developments. After all, we must ensure that we, as legislators, do not create barricades against an interesting evolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u56	Minister, following the new transportation plan which came into force on 15 December 2014, line 43 between Liège and Marloie was planed by its last stop, Jemelle station. This planing is not without consequences. Indeed, this judgment is borrowed by many students, whether they come from the University and the High Schools of Liège or from the Royal Athénée de Jemelle but also from many workers. At present, passengers, in one direction or the other, are invited to take the line 162 for 6 km between Jemelle and Marloie. The problem is that line 162 suffers numerous incidents and chronic delays. To cite only a few recent examples, there have been 8 km of catenary grubbing up and damaged locomotives. You often say, Madam Minister, that where the train stops, there is a bus. Yes, in many cases, but unfortunately not here. Indeed, the region has already experienced a significant decrease in the supply of TECs. However, the Jemelle station serves a large number of communes, namely Rochefort, Nassogne, Saint-Hubert, Wellin, Tellin, etc. It would therefore be interesting, I believe, to make sure that this is done in order to promote effective mobility in rural areas and to avoid the need for users to travel on their own to Marloie railway station. Therefore, Madam Minister, do you envisage, in this particular case, reviewing the situation in the amendments to the transport plan promised for the coming months? Is the reintroduction of the Jemelle station stop possible in the medium term? What measures do you intend to take to improve the correspondence between lines 43 and 162 at Marloie station, knowing that the problem does not come from the time of correspondence (6 minutes) but from the chronic delays on line 162 which makes this change uncertain? Do you have any contact with TECs regarding this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u57	Mrs Cassart, the new transport plan provides for an L Liers-Liège-Marloie relationship every hour. This relationship is in correspondence to Marloie in 7 minutes with the IC towards Jemelle-Arlon and Luxembourg. In the case of an extension of the L Liers-Liège-Marloie relationship towards Jemelle, the equipment and personnel arriving in Marloie could no longer be reused quickly to return in the opposite direction. Therefore, a systematic extension of L trains to Jemelle would entail significant additional costs in terms of personnel and rolling stock. Nevertheless, in the morning, during the rush hour, a P train connects Jemelle to Liège, returning in the evening from Liège. This was possible without having to incur additional costs. In addition, SNCB continuously monitors the regularity of trains on line 162. The journey time and the offer have been adapted according to the work in progress on the line. While SNCB did not detect chronic delays on line 162, one-off incidents may, however, temporarily disrupt traffic and cause inconvenience to customers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u58	Madam President, I thank the Minister for the completeness of her answer. I may also invite him to contact the appropriate minister responsible for TECs so that he can also take over. At some point, everyone has to adapt in order to present a better offer to the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u59	Madam Minister, last week Mr Van den Bergh and I asked ourselves a number of questions about the system of fines introduced a few weeks ago. I have now asked you a follow-up question because I have received a lot of reactions from travellers. On the one hand, travellers tell me that they were lucky to have a train conductor who stated that as long as he did not get any equipment that worked well, he would not issue any fines either. On the other hand, I have also received comments in which there was absolutely no form of customer-friendliness due to the too rigid procedure "I certainly do not want to refer to the train escorts themselves." After all, the customer is actually regarded as a fraud. One of the examples was actually striking. It was a student who had a subscription but the control cabinet didn't work. However, a form C170 was issued there because a 14-year-old boy did not have enough money on him. I wonder where the customer friendliness has gone? If parents then contact SNCB's customer service, an answer will only be given on the basis of procedures. So I ask you a follow-up question to check how many fines have been issued since 1 February 2015 due to a malfunction of a vending machine, forgetting a subscription or not being able to read the ID ticket on the train ticket. How many recoveries have happened? If the ticket control box does not respond to the passenger's train card although the subscription has not expired, how can it be assumed that the error with the train card and thus the passenger is not with the ticket control box? The presumption of innocence is therefore not applied here. Why, as it were, put the customer immediately in suspicion and why should they take action themselves? What is the procedure for immediately writing out a C170? Why is there no message that the customer should have his train pass checked at the counter? I know that we had a discussion on this last week, but it is essential that I ask this follow-up question: that there be a thorough evaluation of this system within society. That is actually the purpose of this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u60	Madam President, SNCB informs me that between 1 and 28 February 2015 it issued around 6 000 fines on the train. In the same period, 1 846 files of customers who forgot their train card were arranged and refunded to the ticket office. The rules clearly state that if a ticket is illegible or cannot be presented at the time of inspection by the train attendant, a declaration of the passenger's irregularity must be made on which one of the reasons stated is clearly stated. SNCB's Customer Service will automatically check whether the MOBIB card contains a ticket valid for the journey and the day of the determination. If the MOBIB card is in order, the C170 is automatically classified without consequence. If this is not the case, the Customer Service will send the customer an invitation to pay the on-board fare. Within the current technical limits, only a check on the facts in the central systems can clearly show whether there was an irregularity or not. Where the irregularity results from a computer error, the irregularity shall be cancelled without further action. If the customer is as a rule, the determination is made without having to do anything, the central services carry out the control. The evaluation of the on-board fare is a continuous process. However, it is too early to draw any conclusions at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u61	Madam President, Minister, I certainly agree with one point, namely that the period of evaluation should be longer than one month. The purpose of my question today is to have the people responsible for it investigated whether this is the most customer-friendly system. I think the number of 6 000 fines is quite high, of course a comparison must be made by percentage, with the number of travellers and so on. In fact, an entire administration is now in operation. There may be people who deliberately behave wrongly, but the majority of people do not, and the administrative cost of bullying these people is too high.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u62	Madam Minister, SNCB is the largest employer in our country, with almost 36 000 employees. I have recently requested figures on diversity in the railways and apparently 4.37% of employees have a non-Belgian background. Public enterprises play a social role and have an exemplary role. Companies, and certainly public enterprises, must reflect society. Unfortunately, we have to conclude from that figure that this is not the case. The management contract of SNCB-Holding has provided for a diversity plan and an annual evaluation since 2009. The management contract also contains targets. The share of immigrants in the annual intake must be at least 10 %. In the coalition agreement we read: "Socio-economic monitoring will be carried out to implement a targeted diversity policy with a quantified objective." I think that's very clear. Madam Minister, first of all, how do you evaluate the diversity policy in the SNCB Group? Secondly, I have a political question. Will you include targets in the new management contract? Will you encourage the SNCB Group, and more specifically the management, for example through variable remuneration, to achieve better results? Third, what was the share of immigrants in the influx in the years 2010-2014. In 2009, for the first time, a target was included in a management contract. Fourthly and finally, can you provide us with the diversity plans and the evaluations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u63	The Belgian railways are committed to diversity and respect in the workplace and will even strengthen that policy. The Belgian railways therefore pay particular attention to these principles, both in terms of customers and staff. HR Rail has given me the figures with the percentages of persons with other nationalities employed. The service also provided me with the diversity plan. All the data is contained in the documents I'm sending you. A general balance will be sought in future management contracts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u64	Madam Secretary, it's a rather short answer. I'll study the numbers first and review the evaluations. However, I would like to emphasise that since 2009 the principle has applied that there should be an inflow of 10%. It is quite clear that the SNCB Group applies this principle in a voluntaristic manner. So she does that quite without obligation. What do we see today? We note that we have an average figure of 4%. The method does not work, there has to be another policy. I hope that, in the spirit of the coalition agreement, you will take concrete steps in this respect. You know that my group is absolutely in favour of this and will support you in it. We must come up with a policy with which we can achieve real results. Madam Secretary, allow me to make it clear that it is a positive story. We are calling for efforts from the SNCB Group. If results are achieved, it is intended that there will be a certain level of remuneration. In our view, the management of SNCB should be further encouraged to focus on diversity and to achieve results in this area. You yourself have noted that this is in the interest of both SNCB's customers and its staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u65	Madam President, Madam Minister, I come back to the exchanges between Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. A bilateral meeting took place in Brussels on Thursday, 5 February, at which the cross-border issues linking our two countries were discussed. In particular, the Park and Ride project aimed at creating a very large parking area on the Stockem site to decongest the E411 motorway to Luxembourg and Luxembourg City in particular. The Belgian and Luxembourg governments would have asked the two operators, CFL and SNCB, to continue their analyses with the aim of short-term commissioning. Minister, do you confirm this information? Is Stockem's site privileged over other sites? Are other sites also under study? If so, which ones? Have you asked SNCB for further analysis? When do you consider putting such a parking area into service? What would be the exact capacity of this Park and Ride? Figures have been circulated, but I would like a precise answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u66	Mrs Poncelet, the Park and Ride project in Stockem was born out of the desire to capture some of the drivers who use the E411. This artery is congested from the locality of Weyler during peak hours. Stockem stop, which is upstream of the congested area, is an ideal location. Indeed, the stop already arranged for the reception of passengers and the move of the current SNCB traction plant from Stockem is planned for mid-2016, leaving a space available for parking. The Park and Ride cannot be put into service until that date. The development of the infrastructure to be carried out is minor, as the current parking spaces of the workshop will be used to accommodate 200 to 300 parking spaces at the start. SNCB is currently conducting a business study on the potential for additional customers that a Park and Ride would represent in place of the current Stockem-Viville SNCB workshop. If this potential study concludes that the Park and Ride is relevant, it will be followed by a feasibility study and a business case, which will analyse in detail the commercial, financial and technical issues. At their joint meeting on 5 February 2015, the Belgian and Luxembourg governments decided to support the idea of setting up a Park and Ride in Stockem and asked the two operators to continue their analyses with the objective of short-term commissioning. These analyses will help to clarify the exact capacity of the Park and Ride.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u67	Madam Minister, thank you. You confirm that only one site is under study; that of Stockem. If I understood correctly, the implementation of the project would take place in two phases. Initially, in the near future, the existing infrastructure would be exploited. In a second stage, after analysis, greater capacity would be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u68	Madam Chair, Minister, as is the case everywhere, Infrabel plans to remove the Stockem crossing. In order to allow for pedestrian, cyclist and car traffic, Infrabel announced the creation of a track crossing for pedestrians and cyclists as well as a tunnel for cars. Minister, do you confirm this information? Will people with reduced mobility have privileged access to these passages? What is the work schedule?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u69	Mrs Poncelet, I confirm this information. People with reduced mobility will indeed have privileged access to these passages. As for the tunnel for cars and weak users, it is provided with a sidewalk of 2.25 meters and it is protected by a guardrail. With respect to the under-lane corridor at the crossing site, it will be equipped with ramps that allow people with reduced mobility easy access. According to SNCB, as long as the permit is issued without delay, work will be scheduled from fall 2015 to end at the end of 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u70	Mrs Fonck is currently in the Conference of Presidents and is about to arrive. Question No 3452 by Mr Foret is transformed into a written question, as is Question No 3456 by Mr Burton. I haven't heard from Mrs. Jadin.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u71	Madam Secretary, this is a follow-up question. I would like to return to my question last week about Michel Allé's mandate, which also sets out the arrangements for the departure of the members of the Management Committee. You said last week that the members of the Management Committee would receive a 12-month break-up allowance in the event of their mandate being terminated prematurely. Specifically for Mr Bourlard, the Director-General of Stations, you said that there is a different departure scheme. After the end of his term of office, he shall continue to be employed as a Director, with a digressive termination fee of three, two and one year, if the contract of employment is broken within two, four or six years respectively after the end of his term of office. After the end of his term of office, he is therefore still employed as director for at least six years. That's a sure thing for him. I told you last week that he is actually even better off than Michel Allé. For Mr Audenaert, Mr Bourlard and Mr Bovy, in the event of termination of the Director-General's mandate for a motive other than a major reason, it is envisaged that they will continue to be employed in the degree of director until the original term of office of their term of office, while retaining remuneration. The answers you gave last week are quite different. That's why I have the following questions for you. Why does Mr Vincent Bourlard have a different and more generous departure scheme than the other members of the Management Committee? When was this arrangement concluded? When does Mr Bourlard's mandate expire? When will the mandate of the other two Members, Mr Audenaert and Mr Bovy, expire? When do the three gentlemen reach the statutory retirement age and can they no longer exercise their mandate under the statutes? I ask that last question specifically because it also applied to Michel Allé.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u72	Mr Bourlard's employment contract is the only one dating back to the 2005 reorganisation. Since 2005, the employment contracts have been similar. The newly adapted agreements since the 2014 reorganisation are also similar. Mr Bourlard's basic employment agreement entered into force on 13 October 1998 and was signed on behalf of SNCB by Mr Damar, Chairman of the Management Board, and Mr Schouppe, Managing Director. Following the reorganisation of 2005, an annex was added to that employment contract in accordance with the arrangements for all contracts of members of the Management Committee approved by the Management Board on 28 January 2005. This attachment was signed on behalf of the SNCB-Holding by Mr Fontinoy, Chairman of the Management Board, and Mr Haeck, Managing Director. This attachment confirms the provisions of the initial contact, which is correct under labour law. The effective date of his mandate as Director-General was 1 January 2005. The Board of Directors of SNCB-Holding extended this mandate for six years on 29 October 2010, starting on 1 January 2011. Mr Bourlard will be 65 in January 2017. The mandate of Mr Bourlard expires on 31 December 2016. Mr Audenaert's initial mandate expired on 1 October 2017. As a result of the reorganisation, the Management Board gave him honorable resignation from its mandate of Director-General human resources as of 1 June 2014. He will remain director of HR until 31 May 2015. The mandate of Mr Michel Bovy, Managing Director of HR Rail, statutory staff member, shall end early on 1 January 2017 following the achievement of the statutory age limit provided for in the Pension Chapter of the Staff Regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u73	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I note that Mr Bourlard will be able to invoke the same reason as Mr Allé and that their mandate is longer than when they reach the statutory retirement age. They are therefore entitled to these additional allowances. I will therefore continue to follow up that dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u74	Madam President, Minister, it is not my custom to ask oral questions on local dossiers, but there is a very bizarre situation in Ternat. About a month ago a new parking lot was opened there and that has caused a lot of commotion. Everyone was satisfied and had been looking forward to the fact that the parking problems would finally be solved. However, it appears that the parking spaces are far too tight, only 2.20 meters wide, while all guidelines recommend a width of 2.50 meters. This has all kinds of consequences, for example that some drivers park over two compartments preventively in order not to be locked in. This has a negative effect, because it will cause more parking spaces to be lost. Meanwhile, the parking spaces are already widened to 2.30 meters, but that is still narrower than 2.50 meters. Madam Secretary, I am surprised that such a thing could happen, and that is why I have the following questions. What minimum conditions does SNCB apply to install parking spaces? What is the reaction of SNCB to the commotion surrounding the too narrow parking spaces in Ternat? When will SNCB discuss this problem with the municipality of Ternat?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u75	Madam President, for its drafts, SNCB uses Revalor, based on existing laws, standards and regulations and supplemented by its own experience. In the existing Revalor a parking space has a width between 2.30 and 2.50 meters. SNCB will examine the extent to which these parking spaces can be adapted. A consultation with the municipality of Ternat is not yet planned, but SNCB will contact the municipality.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u76	Madam Minister, I do hope that there will be a solution so that the parking can be used efficiently. In the margin, I would like to make the following comment. A lot of questions have been asked here about Eurostation. There is a whole battery of engineers, planners, architects, experts in all kinds of fields involved in this project. It is therefore very unfortunate to note that these people do not give advice on a banal dossier which is important for the train traveller. In any case, the problem could have been avoided.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u77	Madam President, Minister, as of April 2, 2015, i.e. tomorrow, the PIAs as amended by you as part of what has been called the moratorium, provide for the cancellation of the sixth stage of the implementation of the airport agreements concluded in 2008 and 2010. As of that date, roads prior to 6 February 2014 will be reinstated. In particular, all take-offs to the south will again be oriented towards the east of the Brussels Region. We will thus re-focus the nuisances on the few municipalities of Brussels and its periphery, which have been battled for more than ten long years now! There are more than 65,000 movements (landings and take-offs) per year. If I count well, it represents on average almost 180 movements a day, or roughly one plane every 5 minutes. This moratorium was your first response and, to date, your only response to the challenge arising from the implementation of the sixth phase of the previous government's overflight plan. This answer is clearly insufficient! In doing so, we are returning to a situation which was itself at the origin of the airport agreements of 2008 and 2010. It was because the residents east of Brussels, intensely overflewed and harshly tested, had won a case before the Brussels court in an action for cessation that the Leterme government had to negotiate a new overflight plan. Now, because other residents of Brussels overflew by this new plan have achieved the same result in the same Brussels court, you have made sure that we return to the original situation. You understand that we are turning around and that the situation that will exist from tomorrow is a profound and serious injustice towards the inhabitants of the two Woluwe, Evere, part of Schaerbeek, Kraainem, Wezembeek-Oppem and I am passing by. Minister, the associations are obviously going to bring to justice the reinstatement of these roads, which they have already cancelled in 2005 and for which you have not done an impact study, as you are obliged to do. The municipalities concerned are probably not going to remain in their hands. So you will be forced to change these roads again. It is important for all Brusselsers that you quickly deliver your intentions. In particular, when and how will you define new roads? What are you going to do to finally move forward on the creation of the Independent Control Authority? What do you think of a simple ban on night flights? A major step forward for all Brusselsers and for all residents of this airport, without distinction and without discrimination, would be to extend the night from 10 p.m. to 7 a.m. instead of 11 p.m. to 6 p.m. at present. Other European airports have done so. Have you made any progress on this subject? What about the consultation promised with the Regions on 23 December 2014?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u78	Mr Dallemagne, I am astonished that you are thus alarming yourself with probable legal actions against the moratorium, while the Brussels government, in the person of Minister Fremault, ordered the Belgian State to pay it periodic penalty payments for an alleged non-compliance with the order of the Brussels Court of First Instance of 31 July. I complied with this request by issuing a ministerial instruction on 23 October. You clearly demonstrate the contradiction that exists. You will therefore recognize the difficulty for me in finding the right balance between demands and expectations when they appear incompatible. I ask you for time to close a case that has not been well-educated for more than ten years and I refuse to allow myself to be instrumentalized as my predecessors have been. The issue of night at Brussels airport is an important part of the overall solution, and we are working on it. Finally, in accordance with the government agreement, I will set up this independent authority – in consultation with the Regions. Authority, too, expected for many years...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u79	In short, Madam Minister, you're kicking, you're not answering the question. It is indeed a question of knowing what you are doing! You have repeatedly stated that your predecessors had done nothing. It's pretty clumsy when you see the work they've done. Above all, you can't see anything coming! In addition, I'm talking about actions that are announced by associations. These are not contradictory attitudes from one government to another. Finally, with regard to the penalties imposed by the Brussels government, it seems to me normal for it to comply with a court decision. What would your group have said in Brussels if it had not done so? It was Mr. Wolf who was in the lead and led this fight with great determination. Instead of settling accounts with the past or with untel and fueling controversy, I expect you to act as promised. On 23 December, you promised to convene working groups. It wasn't. You have still not set up the independent monitoring body, although the documents have been finalized under the previous government. You're not announcing anything about the lengthening of the night or the ban on night flights. I am extremely worried and I think that the residents will not remain there. Quite simply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u80	Madam President, Madam Minister, my first question is in line with the one that Mr Dallemagne has just asked. More specifically, European Regulation 598/2014 on "the establishment of rules and procedures for the introduction of noise-related operating restrictions at Union airports in the context of a balanced approach" will enter into force on 13 June 2016, that is, the day after tomorrow. This regulation aims to protect the interests of airlines and to "limit the risk of international disputes in the event of new operating restrictions on third-country aircraft"; an operating restriction could be, for example, the prolongation of the night that Mr Dallemagne spoke of. For these reasons, it seriously endangers the ability of the competent authorities – yours, but also the regional authorities – to protect local populations, by banning certain types of aircraft, limiting the number of flights or abolishing night flights. Indeed, it imposes such a cumbersome procedure that it seems to have been invented to prevent any decision from being taken. Thus, in the future, noise management measures will have to be cost-effectively cost-effective, according to a model required by an annex to this Regulation, and consultation with interested parties, including the European Commission. Instead of proposing European rules aimed, for example, at reducing nuisances, pollution, health problems and risks posed by airports, the regulation clearly aims to maximise the capacity of European airports. Time is running out. Minister, can you give me a timetable for the implementation of the European regulation in question by linking it with the implementation of the structural measures that you are considering and that your government is considering in its government agreement? My second question concerns the implementation of structural measures with regard to the nuisance caused by air traffic over Brussels. The government agreement provides for a structural and definitive solution to the problem of the nuisance caused by air traffic from Brussels. We have already discussed extensively in committee the errors of the Wathelet plan (cdH) and your government's decision to implement the order of the Brussels Court of First Instance of 31 July 2014. Everyone here is happy about it. On the other hand, there was less talk of structural solutions, since you legitimately needed more time to implement them. Five months have now passed since you took office. Madam Minister, in order to objectify the situation before a decision is taken – you refuse to be instrumentalised, and that is perfectly your right – a prerequisite would be to have a historical study on the use of roads and a population density study (as previously carried out by its head by the ULB) for all roads (not only take-offs from runway 25). Benchmarking the best practices of European airports would also be useful in developing these structural solutions. Have you ordered such studies or are you considering doing so? The government agreement takes up the idea of creating an independent noise control authority around Brussels-National Airport, leaving the Directorate-General for Air Transport, which is very important. As Mr. Dallemagne indicated, a bill had been prepared by the previous government. Do you plan to quickly table a similar text, as it exists, on the government table? How do you intend to guarantee the independence of this authority? What steps, in addition to working groups, have you already taken in your search for structural solutions? My question is not to know the structural solutions, but to know what you have done since then to consider the implementation of these structural solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u81	Madam President, Mr Hellings, there seem to be ways out following the budget conclave and we will commission the studies according to their usefulness. Of course, these will have to be objective. As far as the Supervisory Authority is concerned, as I said to your colleague, we must work hand in hand with the Regions to ensure that this authority has weight and that it works in real independence from the organisations involved in the operation of the airport, for example air transport. The Regulation you set out will therefore be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States from 13 June 2016. I am aware of the scope of this regulation and believe that it will interfere with the federal action taken on the overflight files. We also consult all the actors involved in the problem of overflight and you have my point of view on all the studies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u82	Minister, when you read the press articles that have been published in recent days, you do intend to commission studies. That's good news! I congratulate you on doing so because it is the only way to find a solution based on objective elements. I hope they will be historical road studies. Indeed, many things have already been done in the Brussels sky and its periphery. It would not be a matter of making the same mistakes. As far as the Supervisory Authority is concerned, I am pleased that you are in contact with the Regions, as they are the main ones involved and they are the ones who issue noise standards. There would be no chance of being able to function legitimately and effectively if this Authority did not cooperate with Wallonia and especially Brussels and Flanders. Finally, as far as the regulation is concerned, I understand that it will come into force on 13 June 2016. I just draw your attention to the fact that it could seriously jeopardize your ability to act. I therefore strongly encourage you to implement the structural solutions before that date because, after that, it will most likely be difficult to do so. Minister, I have warned you that this regulation is difficult. You will not be able to use it as an excuse for the non-implementation of structural measures. We will be very attentive to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u83	Madam President, Minister, I have already questioned you on a number of occasions about the provision of services and will therefore no longer elaborate on the concept and the content of the coalition agreement. On 11 February, in reply to my question, you said that the social dialogue had been restarted from 2 February. Normally, a 48-hour strike was planned by the ASTB for today. Last Friday we heard that they suspended it for the time being. I do not know if it has anything to do with the other, but in any case train drivers are essential to make the trains run smoothly, comfortably and safely. If the social dialogue reaches an acceptable agreement on the guaranteed service provision, it should be supported and implemented by all actors, including train drivers. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. What is the state of social dialogue with regard to guaranteed services? Which social partners are at the table? Do you think it is appropriate to involve the ASTB in the social dialogue?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Infrabel and SNCB have examined various possible options regarding the dimensioning of train services in case a guaranteed service needs to be organised. The state of play will be presented to the members of the Steering Committee at the meeting on 1 April 2015. The Steering Committee shall be composed of the delegate directors of Infrabel and SNCB and the Managing Director of HR and three representatives of the recognised organisations. Only the recognised trade unions on the national committee represent the staff in the social dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u85	So the ASTB isn't involved, I understand. I hope that they will also want to implement and support the agreement that is being reached. After all, a train driver is an essential part of a guaranteed service.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u86	Madam President, Minister, my final question concerns a local issue. On 26 March last two trains met on the track between Neerpelt and Hamont. However, luckily, there was no danger because both trains got a red light and stopped in time. The exact cause of the incident is being investigated. Possibly the train towards Hamont got a green light too soon from the signal house in Hasselt. I have two questions. First of all, there's only one trail between Mol and Hamont. The station of Neerpelt is therefore the only place in North Limburg where trains can cross. The double-tracking of the Mol-Hamont section would therefore improve rail safety. Moreover, the project is part of the Flemish railway strategy. Are there any plans to double-track that section of the track Mol-Hamont? Will you make funds available for this in the revision of the multiannual investment plan? Secondly, the signal houses of Mol and Neerpelt have recently been closed. All activities are now organised from Hasselt. This is part of an Infrabel plan to reduce the number of signal houses. Infrabel's planning provided for the concentration of 286 signalling posts by the end of 2014. However, that objective was not achieved. I have asked you a question about this before. What is the current state of the project? According to Infrabel, rail traffic in our country should be regulated from 22 signal houses by 2022. Is this a realistic timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u87	Madam President, as such, the dual-tracking of the Mol-Hamont section is not foreseen in Infrabel's current investment programme 2013-2025. Under the railway projects proposed by Flanders, there is a second track between Neerpelt and Balen workshop. However, within the appropriate budgetary framework, this investment programme needs to be reviewed. By the end of 2014, 109 signalling posts had to be concentrated. Six signalling posts were already concentrated in 2015. By 2017, the Concentration Seinposten programme should be completed. There will then still be 31 signalling posts. The New Traffic Management programme will then be launched and the number of signalling posts will be further reduced, in particular from 31 to 10 signalling posts. These works are planned to be completed by 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u88	Madam Secretary, now you have given a clearer answer, thank you for that. We are indeed in favour of a savings operation, and that is not funny, but there is room to cut into the cumbersome structures of the state-owned company. We agree that it is unacceptable to save on security projects. The signal houses project is one of them. Planning is closely linked to the ETCS system. I hope that we will achieve the timing outlined and that we can continue to work together for a safe rail network in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u89	Madam Minister, last week we read that SNCB Logistics will be sold to the Swiss private equity group Argos Soditic. Apparently, through a construction around his French daughter, he wants to acquire shares in SNCB Logistics for an amount of 70 million euros. I'd like to be briefed on the takeover. What impact does it have on SNCB, on the staff of SNCB Logistics and on the staff of SNCB seconded to SNCB Logistics today?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u90	Madam Minister, Mr Geerts has already made the point. My question, too, is mainly about getting an explanation of the takeover. What will be the consequences for SNCB Logistics itself, for the parent company SNCB, and for the staff. Today, the newspaper said that Argos's takeover was being watched with argus eyes. Is there going to be a social plan? Will SNCB sit around the table with the social partners in order to reach an agreement? What are the consequences for the 1 900 staff, of which 600 to 700 are statutory?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u91	I am pleased that freight transport is being consolidated and even strengthened as part of the agreement in question. That is excellent news for the Belgian economy. In view of the nature of the commercial activities in a competitive and strategic environment and since Argos Soditic is an international private equity, I will refer, for the rest, to SNCB's press release. It has already announced more than two years ago that it intends to expand the shareholding of SNCB Logistics and to concentrate on its core business, namely passenger transport. Today, SNCB is achieving this objective. The capital increase does not alter the existing operational relations with SNCB. SNCB Logistics has carried out an in-depth restructuring over the past six years and has been transformed into a completely different company. For two years, SNCB Logistics has achieved a positive operational result, amounting to EUR 11 million for 2014. In view of the conditions imposed by Europe in 2010 and in order to further invest, a capital injection was needed. The capital increase gives SNCB Logistics the opportunity to look for other external sources of funding. A neutral majority shareholder is the best guarantee for growth. This neutrality enables SNCB Logistics to work with everyone and strengthen its European network. Today SNCB Logistics employs 1 150 people in the group. In addition, SNCB Logistics also employs between 500 and 600 SNCB staff. This concerns a small proportion of train drivers and mainly ground staff in the various stations spread throughout Belgium. SNCB will launch talks with the trade unions CGSP-ACOD and ACV-CSC-Transcom with a view to a social agreement to continue operational cooperation between SNCB and SNCB Logistics as far as possible. The representatives of the recognised trade unions took note of recent developments in the NMBS Logistics dossier in the morning of 31 March. The trade unions ask that, in order to be able to continue the discussion, a number of matters be clarified.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u92	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. We know, of course, that this is a commercial activity. We have heard it here before that there is no answer. I think it is important that SNCB should now be able to focus on its most important task, namely passenger transport. I have always been critical of the capital increases that have been made, because I think the money would dry up. Let us now hope that the injection will build a sustainable future for SNCB Logistics.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u93	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for your reply, which remains on the table for the time being, but that is not surprising given the status of a private company and the fact that the agreement was concluded only two days ago. I think it is good news that there is a solution, because in recent years SNCB Logistics has been a liability to SNCB. SNCB Logistics and the complete logistics of rail freight is very important for ports and for the economy as a whole. I am glad that a good solution has been found. However, SNCB as a parent company does not turn a subordinated loan of EUR 25 million into capital. I believe that this will have consequences for the parent company, on which we need a little more insight in the future. As far as staff are concerned, I can only say that yesterday there was a meeting and a constructive search for a solution, which is, of course, essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u94	Debates of the European Parliament 3526 by Mrs Temmerman and No 3526 by Mrs Temmerman and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and on behalf of the Group of the Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 3530 is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u95	Madam Secretary, recently we had Mr Bovy, head of HR Rail. I had the opportunity to discuss with him the number of leave and compensation days. We heard that there are staff shortages in the train escorts in almost all depots. Applications for leave, which are applied for three months in advance, shall be withdrawn. Retiring a number of staff would increase the problems of taking leave. There is an accelerated recruitment of 300 train drivers. Does this also happen in the framework of train escorts? How can it be explained that the framework of train escorts was not completed in time for the new transport plan and the number of retired train escorts? What is the cause of the delayed recruitment of train escorts? What are the figures of the outflow and inflow of the train escorts? What proactive measures will be taken in view of the imminent retirement of a large number of train escorts? What parameters are used to calculate the replacement coefficient? Is the current method of calculation effective? Shouldn't progressive calculations be made rather than on the basis of personnel movements in the past?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u96	Mr President, for 2015, a quota of 291 train escorts was approved by the SNCB Management Committee. Since November 2014, there is also an accelerated recruitment of train escorts, including for the organisation of job days and continuous selection. Between January 2013 and now 635 train escorts were recruited. 154 people are currently undergoing train coach training. An important influx of trained train escorts will take place from the end of June. Then there are 92 laureates for recruitment in the very short term. There are several factors at the origin of the delay in the recruitment of train escorts. For example, a particularly high number of train escorts leave SNCB early as a result of the announced reform of public pensions. Many candidates were killed during the oral interview on the knowledge of the two national languages. The profile of the candidates does not fit the profile that is sought as train guide. The heavy aggressions of the last few weeks deter people from running for train attendant position. HR Rail has taken additional actions, such as non-stop recruitment of train escorts, the presence at various job fairs and a special radio campaign aimed at train escorts. Furthermore, job days are also organized where the selection takes place in one day. There will be additional publicity campaigns aimed at train escorts. The replacement coefficient is recalculated every six months, allowing SNCB to include all the findings of the past six months as historical data in the calculation. Finally, an adjustment of the train service will follow in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u97	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. SNCB works in continuous service. It is, of course, difficult to conduct a personnel policy in such companies. It is sometimes said that the willingness to act among SNCB or Infrastructure staff is very high. This is often because, for example, requested leave is not granted. So let us hope that there is a commitment, both from the employees and from the employer, the company itself, to comply effectively with the agreements made, for example on leave and compensation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u98	Minister, starting in December 2015, SNCB will strengthen the service to Brussels with a suburban offer thanks to the opening of the Schuman-Josaphat tunnel. A new station will be opened and connections will be improved. Each year, SNCB pays Infrabel tolls up to some EUR 700 million for the use of railway lines. Thus, the railway carrier will take advantage of the opening of the Schuman-Josaphat tunnel to launch its new offer in order to improve the service to and within the capital. According to SNCB management, "suburban supply is part of the regional express network (RER) which, within a radius of 30 km around Brussels, makes available a combined offer of trains, trams, metro and bus into a basic network". According to the projections, which still need to be refined, commuters to the ring and the national airport should benefit from a time saving of 10 to 15 minutes. In addition, the Germoir station (between Etterbeek and Brussels-Luxembourg) will now be open, while no trains will stop there for the time being. The renovated Brussels-Schuman station will be able to play its full role as a multimodal station. The RER is now 62% operational and according to SNCB management, the suburban offer will increase the RER service to 65%. The RER area has 141 stations, 103 of which are connected to metros, trams and buses. Approximately 380,000 travellers travel through its 141 stations every day. As a reminder, the 2013-2025 investment plan includes an amount of €450 million for regional priority projects, available from 2017. An amount of EUR 490 million is foreseen for investments of national interest for a better North-South crossing of the Brussels-Capital Region, by the Nord-Midi junction and by lines 26/28/161. In this budget, an amount of around EUR 100 million will have to be used to develop the Brussels network of lines 26, 28 and 161, allowing one train to operate every quarter of an hour in at least 30 Brussels stations. Minister, can you tell us whether, in your view, the acceleration of the implementation of the ER is still in order? If so, how do you envisage it? What exactly is the risk of additional cost to SNCB in terms of personnel and energy for suburban supply? How do you plan to achieve the objective of commuters and Brusselsers of four trains per hour at thirty Brussels stations and a better service to lines 26 and 28? How is clear and complete information on SNCB, including frequencies and links, envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u99	Mr Kir, I have the impression that you spent a few weeks abroad and that you did not follow the news!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u100	This was a matter that had been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u101	As I had the opportunity to announce earlier last week, the suburban rail offer around, from, and towards Brussels will finally be launched by SNCB in December 2015. This is a major step forward and I welcome it. It is a priority of the government agreement and my policy note that is being implemented, but it is above all excellent news for all SNCB clients and future clients. We need to encourage more and more commuters to take the train and thus reduce congestion on our roads. This suburban offer, that is, this S train service, will be improved from the point of view of the quality of the services, but also from the point of view of the volume of the offer. The launch of the suburban rail offer in the Brussels area in December 2015 has several advantages: new suburban relations through the Schuman-Josaphat tunnel, the opening of the Schuman multimodal station, the opening of the new Germoir station and the reopening of the Tour & Taxis station, and specific information. With regard to the increase in amplitude, expected by December 2017 at the latest, the SNCB is examining the various options to increase its offer by approximately 25% in terms of train/kilometre. This extension has several advantages: the wider amplitude of peak hours, better traffic on weekends and the introduction of Arcades station in December 2016. This extension could thus reach a maximum of 90% of the suburban supply. Today, SNCB clearly positions suburban rail supply as a major strategic axis alongside its IC offer. With regard to the transport plan adjustments in December 2015, allowing the launch of this suburban rail offer from, to, in and around Brussels, they respect the budget targets set. The costs generated by the implementation of an enhanced suburban offer by December 2017 at the latest will be financed by the revenues generated by this new offer, with the exception of the infrastructure fee. With regard to your questions regarding lines 26 and 28, SNCB confirms to me that I have a plan to deploy its suburban rail offer integrating the development of the east axis via line 26 and the west axis via line 28. Intermodality with the metro operated by STIB is an essential pillar of the suburban offer. The SNCB also confirms to me that it is part of a polycentric development integrating the Nord-Midi junction, the European junction thanks to the Schuman-Josaphat tunnel and the Tour & Taxis axis passing through the West station and Simonis. With regard to the communication and information of this new offer, SNCB informs me that it is working on two axes. First, SNCB will improve customer information based on the different channels. This will result in a revised website, an improved road planner or new mobile applications. The information will be specific to the suburban rail offer and targeted for suburban customers. As such, SNCB recalls the upcoming launch of a new map of suburban rail relations as presented at the press conference on 23 March. Secondly, the SNCB informs me that it will inform the various stakeholders of the evolution of the suburban rail offer through meetings planned before September 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u102	Minister, thank you for your answers. If I understand correctly, you confirm the implementation of the suburban offer. I would like to return to the question of lines 26 and 28. You passed quite quickly on this point explaining that the SNCB considered it to be part of the schedule. What exactly is the planned schedule for the implementation of these lines?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u103	Minister, do you have any additional information? [[No]] Kir, the minister indicated that she did not have any additional information to provide.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u104	Minister, is this information available or is this item under consideration?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u105	I answered the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u106	You said it was part of the schedule without saying more.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u107	The Minister has no further information. I can only relay the words of the minister, Mr. Kir. You will ask him again if you consider it necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u108	I'll come back to this line more specifically another time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u109	Madam Minister, can you give me a concrete explanation of what you mean by the updated "Benelux" position on the negotiations on the fourth package?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u110	Madam President, during the previous parliamentary term, the Benelux countries adopted a common position on the political pillar of the fourth railway package. It has been reviewed by the current government, which has opted for a slightly different approach from that chosen by its predecessor. The difference lies in the fact that the government wants to engage in the process of liberalisation of rail transport while defending the special situation of Belgium, a small country at the crossroads of major European axes, with a high population density and one of the most dense railway networks in Europe, organized radially around Brussels. As a result, almost all of our rail traffic is an essential service for our citizens. It was in this context that the Transport Ministers of Germany, France and Benelux met in January. It was agreed to ask the Latvian Presidency to put priority on the technical pillar of the fourth railway package. In addition, emphasis was placed on the Belgian State's willingness to ensure that the public service contracts of the new players do not jeopardize the economic balance of the incumbent operator. The intention would be to define the scope and modalities of the rail services to be rendered to the public and to decide which procedure, auction or direct award, would be the most efficient and the least costly to designate the operator to be responsible for the public service mission(s). Finally, in this context of liberalisation of rail transport, the social dimension of this development is again recalled. Indeed, it must be the subject of more precise provisions in European legislation. The aim is to establish binding principles throughout the European Union in order to avoid social dumping and unfair competition from the players in the market. States, as competent authorities, must establish and enforce a social normative framework by all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u111	Madam Minister, thank you. This means, if I understand correctly, that you are once again focusing on the technical and technological package, but that you are still involved in the liberalisation of the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u112	What has changed is simply the specificity of small countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u113	Are all the conditions of this Benelux-France position that you state to us non-negotiable in relation to Europe? Will you hold that position?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u114	Yes, but the negotiations will only begin.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u115	I hope that you will be firm on all these conditions, because they seem indispensable to me in relation to the liberalisation which, you know, I am opposed to.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u116	Madam Minister, with regard to the budgetary conclave, I am not going to go back to the consultation committee that took place this morning, but to the problem of Belgocontrol, which I have already asked you about on many occasions. We received in committee the CEO of Belgocontrol who explained to us all the difficulty of funding. He told us that he could no longer save on staff without calling security into question. He added that he was going to increase commitments, fearing security problems. You know that a ten million recoverable advance has been provided by the former government. According to the CEO of Belgocontrol, this amount will not be enough to cover the expenses in 2015. He assured us that the federal government, in accordance with the management contract, has guaranteed to cover 2015 and, if no agreement is reached in September 2015, to cover 2016 as well. For you and for me, Minister, aviation safety is fundamental. So my questions are simple. How long will the EUR 10 million recoverable advance allow Belgocontrol to finance its missions? What amounts did you obtain during the budgetary control of 30 March to ensure the financing of air traffic control throughout 2015? Indeed, even if you reached a new cooperation agreement, I doubt that you would be able to do so in two months, since your predecessors were unable to do so either.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u117	Madam President, it goes without saying that my priority is to ensure the optimal and, above all, sustainable operation of Belgocontrol by virtue of its responsibility for aviation safety. For this reason, in the coming weeks we will begin to consult with the Regions on the adaptation of the 1989 agreement, which, you will agree, no longer reflects the reality of the time when it was written and which concerns all airports and not just the Brussels-National one. Pending this consultation and the outcome, I will ensure that the budgetary means identified during the last budgetary conclave allow Belgocontrol to carry out its mission in 2015. These means still need to be the subject of expert arbitration in the coming days. This will be part of the specific "security" envelope that has been released.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic137x.u118	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. The security envelope has apparently not yet been shared between the various ministers. I will therefore come back to the issue of the safety of Belgocontrol.
