ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister is present as well as the first questioner. We can continue our work today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u2	Mr President, Minister, in the United States cyber attacks against American websites from the Islamic State have already been effectively detected. IS hacks websites, after which all kinds of inscriptions appear on the screen, such as images of the Islamic State. The FBI already started an investigation into this. On Sunday 8 March it was also our prize and for the first time there was a cyber attack on European soil. The victim was a British website of a centre against rape in Dublin. The message that appeared on the website was the following: hacked by Islamic State. We are everywhere . My questions on this subject are as follows, Minister. Are there any ways to prevent IS from hacking Belgian websites? If so, do web administrators know how to protect their websites from this? Are additional measures needed? If not, what initiatives will you take as Minister to help protect the Internet from this cyberterrorism? What can or should our country do if a Belgian website is hacked by IS?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u3	Thank you for your reference to Dublin in Ireland. Website administrators are expected to secure their websites against hacking at any time. Of course, that is not the responsibility of the state, but of the website manager. However, websites are not always managed by professional companies and are therefore not always well protected. In particular, private web operators are often unaware of the vulnerabilities of their website and how they can be remedied. Moreover, there are no specific ways to protect against hacking by IS, since ISIS has so far used the same techniques as other hacker groups. Sensitisation campaigns and advice can help shed the cybersecurity of Belgian websites. Currently, this role is already being played by the federal Cyber Emergency Team, the CERT.be established in 2009. This has a sensitising and supportive role for IT professionals of companies and the general public. In the meantime, CERT.be is formally part of the Centre for Cyber Security Belgium, which was established with the KB of 10 October 2014. As far as that Cybersecurity Centre Belgium is concerned, it is under the custody of the Prime Minister. So if you would like to ask further questions about this, please address the Prime Minister. On many internet forums you can find information on how to increase the security of websites. With regard to your second question, website administrators should in principle know how to protect their web site. However, as mentioned above, not every web administrator is active at the same professional level. However, guaranteeing security is a shared responsibility, both of the government and of the companies and the individual web site managers. Federal Police Federal Computer Crime Unit has been following Cyber IS cyber action for some time. At present, this shows that the level of their activities does not have any specific technical complexity. According to our own findings, these men or perhaps women are not particularly sophisticated. Cyber IS does not pose a greater threat than other groups that hack websites. However, she is a threat. In the long term, the Cybersecurity Centre Belgium will also play a role in this context. Indeed, the coalition agreement refers to the development of its own cyber-security capacity for an independent security policy and an appropriate response to security incidents. In addition to a coordinating role, the Centre will also provide policy advice and take initiatives to advise and protect businesses, consumers and public services. For further explanations, please refer to the Prime Minister. Thirdly, the expertise developed by the Cybersecurity Centre Belgium will of course also be used in the fight against cyberterrorism. Moreover, the fight against cybercrime has been a priority in the National Security Plan for years. The same applies to the National Security Plan 2012-2015, which was presented here in Parliament. Finally, if a Belgian website is hacked, the web manager can file a complaint with the police, after which the public prosecutor will decide on any further investigation. If necessary, the specialised support of the computer crime units of the federal judicial police may be invoked. Belgian companies and public authorities whose website is being hacked can use CERT.be for rapid intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u4	Thank you, Minister. If the President agrees to this, I would like to turn to my related second question. [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u5	Minister, as we all know, IS uses popular social media such as Facebook and Twitter to actively promote propaganda on the global web. In many Western countries, measures were taken to make jihadis and hate preachers more difficult to spread their message over the Internet. However, the German press discovered that since February, IS has established its own social media website called Kilafahbook, a kind of facebook for jihadis. This website even has the appearance of facebook. Users can simply log in through their existing facebook account. The site is available in several languages, which of course ensures that one can reach a very wide audience. Minister, the current Belgian legislation and also the website of the federal police indicate several areas on the Internet that are punishable. We are talking about computer fraud, Internet fraud, hacking, computer fraud, computer sabotage, Internet and copyright, child pornography and paedophilia, racism and negationism, and finally spamming. Facts about the criminal activities of the Islamic State... radicalisation, hate preaching... have not yet been included. To what extent is it possible to close or block websites from Belgium, even in the case of facts such as this one? If this is not possible, will you, as a minister, take the initiative to make this possible in the future and to include it in the offences connected with the Internet?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u6	Mr Metsu, all violations of the Criminal Code are punishable, whether they are committed in the real world or on the Internet. Incite hatred via the Internet, threaten to commit terrorist crimes and so on. You know we're expanding the Terrorist Act. Calls to fight for a terrorist group will also be included. Whether in the real world or on the Internet, it's all criminal. When they are established, these facts may give rise to a claim under Article 39a of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the so-called data seizure, whereby the magistrate may order the providers to offline the illegal content. In practice, however, it is not always necessary to submit a claim from the magistrate to the providers, often the simple question is sufficient and they will delete the content to ensure that it is not in accordance with their user conditions. For example, in the framework of the Radicalism Action Plan, a procedure was in place in the past to ask providers to remove it in the event of problematic content, calls for hatred or violence, negationism, racism and discrimination. The Internet has no borders, the problem arises especially when the provider is abroad and considers that the content contested does not conflict with the user conditions or that it is not a criminal offence in the country concerned. In that case, the Belgian telecom operators may block the website in question, also through a claim pursuant to Article 39a of the Code of Criminal Procedure. However, this solution is not conclusive and is not appropriate when only one page of an entire website contains illegal content. After all, it is only possible to block the entire domain and not just the specific page, for example whole facebook and not just the profile page where hate is called up. These are always considerations to be made. We therefore believe more in an approach at European and international level that should encourage the major providers to ban extremist or terrorist content from their internet forums. At EU level, contacts with the major providers have already been made on several occasions, some of them have already adapted their policies and have in the meantime introduced restrictive policies in relation to extremist or terrorist content. It is also true that at the last JAI meeting, the Commissioner responsible for the Interior agreed to bring the main Internet providers around the table and make more concrete arrangements. At Europol level, steps are also being taken to develop a European policy on flagging extremist or terrorist content for the major providers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u7	Debates of the European Parliament 2890 by Mr Dedecker will be discussed later in the day. Mr Dedecker is now taking part in the work of another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u8	Minister, after the procedure concerning the retirement age of the police, the judgment of the Constitutional Court has given rise to some discussion. The regime for police pensions should be changed. Of course, it is not an option to ignore a court ruling. In my opinion, a temporary solution was already sought by the system of absence, called in the jargon AVAP. During January, you hoped that these arrangements would be finalised in an agreement. However, the negotiations are still ongoing at the moment, despite the fact that a transitional arrangement was provided for. We all follow that through the press. My question dates back to early March, when you were still negotiating with the NSPV and VSOA. They were difficult, but I have heard from the press that negotiations have continued. I understand from a press release today that the police unions are not going to agree. That is why I would like to ask you about the current state of affairs. What slopes are on the table? What problems arise and what solutions can be found? How do you proceed with the consultation and with which partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u9	Minister, on 6 March the Council of Ministers approved the preliminary draft law, which would allow federal police officers who had applied for their pension before 10 July 2014 to continue to benefit from the preferential pension scheme for federal police staff. On Monday 16 March, you negotiated with the police unions the pension scheme for the police people who are not covered by that transitional measure. It is clear that the police unions do not agree with the preliminary draft law. Last week several actions were announced. After the Easter holiday, a penalty-free week would follow. In this way, the planned flash marathon of April 13 would fall into the water. The penalty-free week was due to end with a general strike on 24 April. The police unions are thus reacting against the lack of a solution acceptable to them, including the lack of recognition as a serious occupation and the continued discrimination between police officers coming from the former state guard, on the one hand, and police officers coming from the former municipal police and the former judicial police, on the other hand, while they are all doing the same work today. However, the VSOA indicated that the actions could be suspended if the government came up with a text acceptable to them. Minister, can you explain the state of play? Is it true that there is no intention to recognise the profession of police officer as a serious profession? Yesterday I heard you say on the radio that this must be nuanced. If I have understood correctly, you say: some do and some do not. Perhaps you could explain that? Will you also respond to the criticism of the police unions according to which the scheme only favours the police officers of the former state guard and not the police officers of the former municipal police and the former judicial police?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u10	Mr Minister, the dossier is in full focus. I understood that you were on the brink of an agreement, but unfortunately the unions have recently announced actions again. The Council of Ministers has already adopted a draft law which allows 2 500 federal police officers who have applied for their pension before 10 July 2014 to benefit from the preferential scheme. However, the content of the transitional accompanying measure to the end-of-life scheme must be determined. Furthermore, you and the government must work out a definitive solution to police pensions. We are concerned about those two steps. If the police zones are to be responsible for the non-activity, the NAVAP, there is a risk of a financial catastrophe. In view of the budgetary situation of the police zones, it seems impossible for staff to be replaced. We fear that basic police care may be compromised. The unions also demand that the office of police officer be recognised as a heavy occupation and that the retirement age should therefore be 58 years. I understand you're behind that, but you'll explain that yourself later. This may not be the case for everyone, but the nuclear cabinet sent the file to a working group to examine the budgetary implications of such an operation. Experts fear that a list of heavy professions is not only very difficult to draw up, but will cause displeasure. Research suggests that about seven out of ten Flemings think they belong to that category. Colleague and former Minister of Pensions Van Quickenborne received a lot of requests in the previous government for exceptions, in particular thirty-three professionals who would like to benefit from this scheme. Mr Minister, has the content of the transitional measure already been established in the end-of-life system? What does it look like right now? How many staff members would possibly be covered? This is important in order to assess the financial picture. Do you not fear that the cost of any agreement you conclude with the trade unions could jeopardise public finances? What was the outcome of the discussion by the nuclear cabinet on 24 March? We're worried about you, aren't we? Do you not fear that the agreement with the trade unions will open Pandora's box and that other professions will now follow? I fully understand that you want to give the consultation all the opportunities at the moment, but can you give us a tip of the veil?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u11	This is a complex dossier. From the first day of the negotiations, a long time ago, I told the trade unions that a transitional situation, a situation created by the judgment of the Constitutional Court, is part of the negotiations. The trade unions have linked the so-called system and régime to the negotiations. That means: after the transitional period for all policemen. That is the discussion about heavy duty and dangerous occupation. I have said from the beginning to the trade unions that linking both cases would be difficult. Of course, we have to solve the questions relating to the heavy-duty profession or not, and for which workers are and for which they are not. It is very difficult to give a preliminaries for a particular profession. That question needs to be resolved in the global pension reform debate, which is now starting. The National Pensions Commission has been set up for this purpose. The debate on the heavy professions is at the top of her agenda. However, the trade unions continue to make the link between a solution to the situation created by the judgment of the Constitutional Court and a definitive settlement. We have an agreement on the follow-up to the judgment of the Constitutional Court, but that cannot be concluded because they link with the situation afterwards. There is an agreement on the proposals on the table, but, as is often the case in politics, there is no agreement as long as there is no agreement on the whole. The overall solution consists of three parts. The first part is the proposal with a transitional legal regime, which has already been dealt with by the nuclear cabinet and has already been examined in the Social Affairs Committee. It ensures that those members of the operational framework who fulfil the condition to retire according to their old preferential age on 10 July 2015 can still do so. That is a broad interpretation of the coalition agreement. If the coalition agreement were to be read strictly, it would be 10 July 2014. We have chosen the broad interpretation. It is specifically 2 500 people. There is an agreement on this. Everyone is pleased that we can solve the situation of those people. The second part seeks a solution for those to whom the recently cited proposal does not apply. This concerns 3 500 people, who can rely on the non-activity system. In total, 6 000 people are affected. We have an agreement on this. That system applies to police officers from 58 years of age. Therefore, during the regulatory transition period from 11 July 2015 until the end of 2019, police officers may retire at 58 years or receive an offer for appropriate employment and continue to work. If you do not accept this, you will receive the same benefit as a pension in the AVAP scheme, 75%. It takes into account the career length of 37.5 years. If the career is shorter, the benefit will not be 75%, but it will be degressive. This is an agreement with the trade unions. If we were to complete the third part, everyone would agree on that arrangement. The third part would be to recognise the entire operational framework of the police as a heavy occupation. The trade unions are calling for a decision to be taken on this at this stage. We discussed this in the nuclear cabinet on 24 March. The government has not answered that question. That is also what has been said to the trade unions. However, we have promised that the transitional period will continue until there is a regulation on the heavy professions. If the A Committee does not get out of the discussion about the heavy professions and the discussion continues beyond 2019, the transitional regime will apply longer. We have agreed to that. However, the unions want immediate recognition as a heavy occupation. We refuse to do so, and we said from the beginning that this was certainly not possible. The unions also want us to have an age. That is out of the question, and we will certainly not go into that question. However, the issue will be discussed during the discussion on the heavy professions, as part of the discussion on pension reform. Why is it difficult to make the link with the heavy-duty professions? Then everyone else will be in line. As has just been mentioned, 70% of Belgians consider that he is engaged in a heavy occupation. Maybe the 30% that doesn't think that actually has a heavy occupation. That raises questions. It's hard to do the preliminaries. I told the unions from day one that if they continue to make the link, this would make the debate on the transitional arrangements more difficult. What have we got now? The first part is being implemented. So these 2,500 agents are out of uncertainty. It's taken care of. I would also like to take the agents to whom the second part applies out of uncertainty and conclude an agreement on this. Then the discussion about the heavy professions can then be held in the A Committee and in the National Pensions Committee. But the link between these two, the government does not want to go into that. We continue to talk to the unions, but what they demand makes no sense. I will try to reach an agreement on the second part. The offer we have now made is that the second part runs until agreement is reached on the heavy professions, but that has not yet been taken up. This is also what I said on radio and television yesterday, namely that the link between the transition situation and the situation and régime, leading up to the pension debate, which is generally raging, is very difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. For the sake of clarity, anyone who becomes 58 over the next three or four years will be covered by the AVAP system as long as there is no agreement on the heavy professions. Is there any clarity on how AVAP is financed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u13	That was a question from Mrs Gabriels that I overlooked. The KB on this matter still needs to be worked out. The basic principle, however, is that we achieve savings in the pension fund due to the fact that employees continue to work longer. We will not include this saving in the pension fund in the budget, but we will use it to finance the areas guaranteeing additional employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u14	They work until 58, so they don't really work anymore...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u15	No, it's about those who choose to keep working after 58. As a result, we achieve savings in the pension fund, which we then use for this purpose. It is therefore not intended to see this as a saving measure. The KB has yet to be worked out, but it has been communicated to the unions and the local police committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u16	For the sake of clarity, I would also like to ask a further question. You just said that there is an agreement on those who are on non-activity, at 75%. You said that the second part will not be carried out until the third part has been settled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u17	Yes. The unions agree with the first part.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u18	So that's final. That's settled?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u19	Yeah, that's already in the design. They agree, because July 10th is getting close. For the second part, they did not agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u20	But they agree with the recognition as a heavy occupation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u21	If I could accept the recognition as a heavy occupation, they would agree with that. The second part, where we are now, is slightly different from the coalition agreement. We have grown towards each other there, but I will only do so within the framework of a global agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. Our group also heard from the newspaper that the police summit itself is not amused with the planned actions. Certain agents who are not prepared to take action at the moment are also not amused. For us, boycotting flash actions only jeopardises safety. One consciously touches the treasury. Our group believes that we must continue to reform structuralally in order to keep our system running. That is also the philosophy of the entire coalition agreement, hence the question to you. Finally, in his Justice Plan, Minister Geens explicitly mentions the guards as staff who can retire at 57 years. That does not, of course, make the discussion any easier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u23	Mr President, Minister, I had already told you, on previous questions, that I was concerned about how to increase the effectiveness of our police while at the same time achieving savings. In this regard, consideration should be given to how to assist our agents in carrying out the tasks assigned to them. Our police are doing a remarkable job, as I was able to see again last Monday in Eupen. According to my information, the costs of police intervention in high-risk sporting events, especially football matches, are borne by the welcoming municipalities, and therefore also by their taxpayers. Small municipalities already with a very limited budget must then pay a good sum of their budgets to ensure security at those events. This fact does not appeal to the municipalities or citizens, who would rather like to invest these resources in other communal projects. Minister, my questions are quite simple. Would it not be possible to charge the costs of police interventions to URBSFA? Or even give responsibility for safety to the sports clubs themselves, as is done in other countries, such as the United States? It is not all right in the United States, we agree, but for the major sporting events – and we know that they do – the intervention of the police is not required ex officio, unlike at home. As a corollary, I think we should work on supporters, in whom we would like to see an evolution in behaviour.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u24	Mrs Jadin, as far as I am concerned, I can inform you that to date no list drawn up by royal decree is available mentioning the administrative police missions for which compensation can be received from the organisers or from the URBSFA. This problem concerns all the events where the police are present - concerts, festivals, etc. - and not just sports events. This issue is still open at both Belgian and European level. A draft royal decree on the basis of section 90 of the Integrated Police Act was submitted but not approved in the previous legislature. It was an ongoing exercise. To be very honest, the treatment of this problem is not included in the government agreement. This was discussed during the negotiations, but we did not reach agreement on it. However, I am aware of the importance of this dossier for local authorities and police services. I will not hesitate to reconsider it if there is consensus with other government partners. If this issue is to evolve, there needs to be consensus within the government parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u25	Thank you for the new information that I did not have. It is indeed very interesting. I see I'm not the only one with this thinking. It goes without saying, minister, that I will bring my tiny stone to the building if we really want to get on with this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u26	Mr President, Minister, I would like to address the issue of Belgian-Moroccan collaboration in the fight against radicalism. Morocco had recently proposed cooperation with Belgium in order to prevent the radicalization of extremists. I am convinced that this collaboration could be interesting in the current context. Morocco is facing the same problems as we are facing: the Ministry of the Interior has mentioned that more than a thousand young Moroccans, sometimes of dual nationality, have gone to fight in Syria, 100 of whom are said to have died. These are therefore situations comparable to those we are living in Europe. Two elements appear to be essential through Moroccan policies in the fight against radicalisation. On the one hand, there is effective and transparent control of places of worship. The discourse but also the formation of imams are controlled. Morocco has since 2003 and the attacks in Casablanca, adopted a centralized religious training and fed courses in geography and law. He was also the first country to train imam women, the equivalent of spiritual counselors. On the other hand, the country has attacked radical Islamist detainees by setting up deradicalisation cells for the leaders who are setting up. I am therefore convinced that collaboration between the competent authorities is a key element in addressing the current challenges. Recently, Morocco announced a large-scale dismantling operation on a large part of its territory, with a terrorist cell preparing to carry out attacks against political and military figures on behalf of the Islamic State Group. In order to do so, the Moroccan State, which does not hide its concern about this jihadist phenomenon, has established the Central Bureau of Judicial Investigations, which is a structure aimed in particular at dealing with the risks and threats of terrorists. My questions are as follows, minister. Is the Ministry of the Interior and Security in contact with the Moroccan Ministry of the Interior? How is this collaboration going? What are the priorities discussed? If action is taken, how do you evaluate these different measures? Do you consider them to be transferable in Belgium? I believe that this collaboration can be interesting, especially in view of what has happened in Tunisia in recent weeks, where we see that collaboration between our States can be quite effective, if properly implemented, against jihadism and terrorist acts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u27	Mr President, Mrs Schepmans, thank you for your questions. I regret to inform you that a number of your questions concern matters not within my competence. It is with great interest that I have taken note of the measures adopted by Morocco. For any other questions relating to the monitoring of mosques and imams, I would ask you to address the Minister of Justice. I am indeed in contact with my Moroccan counterpart. As you may know, I was there last week for meetings with, among other things, Minister of Home Affairs Mohamed Hassad. I came back a day earlier than expected for the budget negotiations. It's another story. The items on the agenda of the discussions with my Moroccan counterpart were: follow-up of foreign fighters, the problem of combating radicalism in the broad sense, and the possibilities of further strengthening our cooperation. One of the topics addressed was international cooperation and how Morocco and Belgium can contribute to it together. We also closed an agreement between our two police forces. This agreement will be tabled in Parliament; if it is not already done, it will be in the coming days to be approved. It provides for some collaboration between the Moroccan police and our police. To give you an example, in this action plan, it is planned that the police chiefs from Brussels, Vilvorde and Antwerp will be able to visit the area to see how the neighbourhood police are working. As far as the Belgian-Moroccan community is concerned, I was present at the Diwan awards about two weeks ago. These are twelve Oscars handed over to Moroccans living in Belgium with cultural, sporting, entrepreneurial and other successes. We haven't drawn enough attention to that. The atmosphere was extremely positive. Several speakers pointed out that if we integrate and seize our chance in this country, we can succeed. Cameras are always directed to the problems that arise, but there are also, fortunately, successes. It is worth highlighting them. Sharing good practices and international benchmarking are essential in the fight against radicalism. These aspects are one of the pillars of my policy. It should be noted, however, that each country and region has its own characteristics and needs and that it is therefore not possible to replicate all the solutions found there. We can always learn – and we can learn a lot from Morocco – but we still need to adapt the measures to local situations. That is why I would like to best apply their experiences, methods and know-how while adapting them to the Belgian context. I also invited Mr Hassad to Brussels for a visit with mutual respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u28	As Minister of the Interior, also responsible for Big Cities, the problems of our largest cities will not be strange to you, especially when it comes to the second largest city in Flanders, Ghent. We see that the number of squatters and squatters in Ghent has risen sharply over the past year. In Ghent alone, the number of squatters increased from 98 to 128, an increase of 30 % and the number of squatters increased by 22 %. That's gonna cause a hell of a nuisance. Owners don't get the squatters kicked out of their homes that easily, especially if they manage to direct themselves, after which they can also get a parking card from the city council of Ghent. When the owners come back, for example after a long stay in the hospital, they often find the biggest mess in the building, with all the costs involved. There is also a nuisance for the residents, who are caused by people who are not so close to the law of ownership. The coalition agreement contains the provision that the scheme relating to squatting shall be reviewed with the aim of accelerating exorcism. Where are we on this and what exactly can we expect and by when? What possibilities do you see to curb this problem? I am thinking, for example, of criminalising cracks or directives in the case of residence checks, where one should also be able to prove that the building is owned, rented or otherwise have an agreement with the owner. One shouldn't be able to just let oneself go into a house that isn't yours. What about providing assistance and guidance in cracking and occupying premises? A number of Ghent associations appear to be specialised in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u29	I can confirm that the current government agreement in the chapter on Justice and Security states that the regulation on squatting is being reviewed with the aim of accelerating exorcism. After all, our government chose to deal with squatting in a different way. The rights of the property owners will be strengthened. More than that, the owners will finally get rights. The goal is to make squatters more easily able to leave the premises. Currently, squatting a property is not specifically prohibited in criminal law. It's very odd, but it's true. The owner can only request the expulsion of the squatters by civil procedure. The municipality and the police can also do little. In the meantime, the illegal resident is also protected by the right to inviolability of their home. In order to remedy this situation, Article 439 of the Criminal Code on the Penal Prosecution of Unwanted Ingress of Residential Property should be amended and extended with a specific criminalisation of squatters. As a result, rightholders, local authorities and police will have the necessary legal capacity to act effectively against these serious breaches of property rights. That file is one of my priorities. To be perfectly honest, I haven't recorded that yet. I will do so in the near future, together with my colleague from the Justice Department, who is competent in criminal matters to take a legislative initiative. In the meantime, we have dealt with a number of other issues, which have not yet been included in the coalition agreement. The points raised in your second and third questions, concerning the necessary directives in the case of residence checks and the limitation of the provision of assistance and guidance in the creaking and occupying of premises, are examined and dealt with. So this dossier still needs to be started.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and for your concrete commitment to this. It is indeed a serious change in relation to the previous policy. It is very strange that there are very few rights for owners today, but very many rights for those who illegally occupy a property. It is also very strange that when an application for an address for service is made, the underwear are checked, while others appear to be very easy and self-contained. That is why I welcome your commitment to making strong changes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u31	Mr. Chair, Minister, this is a matter that was tabled two weeks ago and was postponed. So I'm trying to update it. The failure of the union concertation that took place yesterday gives it new news. Indeed, the areas are immersed a little more in uncertainty at the same time as 35,000 police officers who still do not know what will happen to their retreats. A first question would be whether, in the meantime, the option of the four years of inactivity or repositioning into specific tasks is still preferred. You have responded in part. In other words, will there always be two end-of-career plans? These two regimes, if implemented, pose a number of challenges to the police areas. First possibility: the end-of-care scheme with "adapted function". What is meant in practice by "adapted employment"? We talked a little bit about it. A suitable diet already exists, especially for people who have medical recommendations, such as pregnant women. Are you sure that police areas will be able to guarantee the availability of such jobs? If not, what will happen? Is a percentage required? Second option: the paid "non-activity" or "pre-pension leave" scheme. This is a non-activity period of up to 4 years. If such a regime is implemented, will the police areas be able to re-engage? Can they be assured of the financial means to do so? Do we consider that a place is freed up in the frame? For the municipalities, each police officer currently counts. I did a simulation for the police area of Liège. Several scenarios exist depending on the choice of police officers. In the worst-case scenario, as of July 1, 2015, the city would have 59 fewer police officers and 13 fewer commissioners. This is a very important operational impact that would lead to a serious disruption of services. How were cities consulted before and during negotiations on this issue? Can you ensure that they will be consulted prior to the drafting of royal decrees that have a significant impact on the missions to be completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u32	Mr Demeyer, your questions are indeed very practical and deserve clear answers. Your first question is about a structural statutory measure that is part of this government's policy of extending careers, but in circumstances that are conducive to that. This will allow staff at least 58 years of age to apply for suitable employment. There will be no quota imposed in this area. You will easily understand that it will take time to implement this policy. It is therefore a question of demand and supply that will have to balance over time. On the other hand, your second question relates to the transitional solution and the non-activity prior to the pension. This is a period of non-activity which will be taken into account in determining entitlement to the pension, but not in calculating the amount of the pension. A piece of legislation will confirm this in the near future. The areas will be able to re-engage. Again, funding is provided by and under federal authority. Representatives of municipal and city associations and representatives of the Standing Committee on Local Police are systematically invited to pre-negotiations and negotiations. All relevant information and simulations were provided, including last Monday. A royal decree will still have to formalize the financing. This will also be done in consultation with local authorities, in particular through the Council of Mayors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u33	Minister, thank you for your answer. I have no other request on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u34	Mr President, Minister, this is a fifteen-day question, but it is still relevant, even though things have changed since you visited yesterday to get an idea of the situation. The notice of strike filed by the police unions for the period from 12 March to 12 April nevertheless remains, despite the positive signal of the visit. Minister, my questions about your plans for the Federal Police Buildings in Liège are as follows. As regards phase 1 of the schedule, namely the construction of two new buildings on the Vottem site, the figure of EUR 15 million is quoted for the cost of this work. Do you confirm this number? The only budget commitment that was cited for 2015 is 1.5 million for demolition. The unions therefore fear that the first phase will not take place. Your predecessor had announced the 2015-2016 date, but we are now talking about 2019. With regard to phase 2 of the timetable, namely the consolidation of the various settlements that have become obsolete, the police officers are also waiting. What is your comprehensive, coherent and integrated project for the Federal Police of the district of Liège? Is Vottem's masterplan maintained? There are possibilities for regrouping the infrastructures of the Federal Police on the territory of the City of Liège and not on the territory of Vottem, thus Herstal. Are these possibilities being explored? I plead here for the maintenance of the police forces in a notion of "centrality". This seems important to me in terms of police presence in the vicinity of the largest population concentrations. This also seems to me important in terms of spatial planning. Minister, I draw your attention to the importance of avoiding – and I know you are working on it – a social movement around the workers concerned. That must be our first concern. But I would also like to draw your attention to the situation in which you have placed the mayor of the city, in so far as he is responsible for the safety of situations which are brought to his knowledge. I cannot pretend to ignore a number of security issues, which is why the city's security services will visit the site, with the agreement of the Régie des Bâtiments, to assess the situation. After the visit, I would like to discuss this with you and the minister in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u35	Minister, I will be extremely brief given that all the questions have already been asked. You went there. You should let him know. Thus, the federal parliamentarians would accompany you when you come to say hello to Liège.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u36	I'll do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u37	Let him know and we'll come with you. According to the reports I saw on the news yesterday, the police seemed reassured about what you agreed with them. You yourself have realized the deplorable conditions in which they work in this place. What about what was originally planned by your predecessor, namely the grouping on the site of Vottem? It seems to be postponed to 2019. Have you adapted this plan following your meeting yesterday? What means are available for the adjustment that has taken place? Have any additional resources been put in place? Finally, what is the precise timetable for this operation? That is what we think is most important.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I visited some places in Liège, including the federal police headquarters in part of the courthouse and the former gendarmerie barracks. I also asked to visit Vottem immediately after the scheduled program. I met the unions. I told them I wasn't always on the same wavelength as them. But after seeing the working conditions of the police, I fully agree with the unions. For a work situation that should be modern and adapted to the 21st century, what I have seen is unacceptable! Asking people to come and work in a small room where there are two or three employees with little light and an indescribable smell is intolerable! I have read about the plans of the Régie des Bâtiments for the new building, for the laboratory and for the CICs. These are the important places. The schedule I've seen is unacceptable! Taking one year to write a specification, then taking another year to evaluate the answers to this specification and finally making a decision is unacceptable, especially when you know the conditions in which people work in Liège. I promised to come back in three weeks with a personal commitment after reviewing the plans with the Régie des Bâtiments. Mr Demeyer, I think the masterpan planned for Liège will actually be a masterplan for the Vottem site. The timetable will be much more aggressive than expected today. There will be a commitment to global achievement. From what I saw there, if it were the private sector, this company would be immediately closed. This file has to be taken over, it can't wait. I will propose a shorter schedule and the necessary budgets to achieve all this. Let's be clear, it's going to take a little longer, because we're going to have to build buildings. During my visit to Vottem, I visited the building made of containers. It is entirely acceptable. It can be used from the end of April. However, this is not appropriate for the laboratory, for which there are other technical constraints. All other services may move to this new temporary building. For the laboratory, we will build a specific building. I will see the social partners in three weeks, with a master plan and commitments for the realization of this project. We can no longer speak of an emergency: the emergency is already over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u39	Minister, you have not responded to my concerns about "centrality". I imagine you're going to ask for an amendment to the law, because bringing the police to Vottem is not possible. I'd like to hear from you about the notion of "centrality". It's important! In addition, spatial planning and social cohesion must also count on important decisions such as those you are about to take. I welcome your concern about the working conditions of the staff, but when you say that in the private sector the building would already be closed, I must tell you that the building may soon be closed. We will discuss it and I will rely on the reports of the security services; I will ask to meet with you and together we will analyse the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answer. Nothing like a good on-site visit to see that this situation is indeed intolerable for the people who work there! I thank you in advance for your willingness to work quickly on this issue and to house the police in decent conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u41	Mr President, Minister, a few weeks ago the European football match between Club Bruges and the Turkish team Beşiktaş took place at the Jan Breydel Stadium. Club Bruges has won and I naturally want to congratulate Club Bruges and the supporters on the result. On a sporting level there was no problem, but what happened after the game outside the stadium was much less beautiful. I was allowed to witness that myself, it was not a pleasant experience. There was a grim atmosphere there and according to the police violence was also used. Club Bruggessupporters stopped cars from controlling people and they mainly targeted Beşiktaşsupporters, who had to pay it both verbally and physically. Afterwards, the Chief Constable of Bruges used heavy words. I have here the newspaper article, the headline of which speaks for itself: those Club supporters have gone wild like primates. Those are not innocent words, but I think the Chief Constable has rightly condemned the behaviour of some supporters. He also talks about uncircumcised racism and announced an investigation. Last week in Brussels there was the cup finale between Anderlecht and Club Bruges, and then there were incidents and riots, although it was still quite easy. Yet the police were mobilized massively. I come to my question, Minister, about Club Bruges' match against Beşiktaş. How many incidents were recorded before, during and after the game? What security measures were taken in advance? How many men from the local and federal police were deployed? Although I am not an expert on the subject, I had to find out on the spot that the organisation of accompanying supporters of the different compartments did not go smoothly. The Chief Constable of Bruges has announced an investigation. I wonder if you can do something about this yourself. As far as the fight against hooliganism is concerned, you referred to that in your policy paper, but you remained very vague. What concrete measures will you take to ban hooliganism from Belgian football? Finally, I believe that the clubs and the Belgian football association should also play a role in this. What will you do to responsive the football association and the clubs to tackle hooliganism?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u42	Mr Yüksel, the serious incidents to which you refer are currently the subject of an administrative and judicial investigation. So I cannot answer all your questions in detail, because of course I do not want to hypothesize the investigation. Most incidents were filmed by a police helicopter, which always helps with the investigation. There were five incidents before the start of the game. It was about driving back supporters in the Prinsenhof. There was a confrontation between the law enforcement services and Beşiktaşsupporters at the Smedenpoort. There were incidents during the police facilitated and escorted itinerary, such as non-obedience to police orders, split up the group, lighting Bengal's fire and leaving the requested itinerary. In order to prevent a deliberate confrontation between supporters of the two teams, several platoons had to intervene urgently. That was before the start of the game. At the start of the game at 18.00 hours Beşiktaşsupporters crawled over the fences to enter the perimeter of the stadium, which immediately gave rise to small fights. There were also several incidents following the mix of supporters in the courses of Club Bruges. Interventions by stewards, spotters and policemen were needed to disarm people. At the end of the game, a massive fight broke out in the visitor compartment between the Beşiktaş fans. After that, several incidents followed each other in a rapid pace. Vehicles were stopped, a pedestrian was beaten but could flee, Bengal's fireworks were thrown to passing vehicles, another vehicle drove through the crowd in which several hurts fell, other vehicles were damaged and occupants were physically attacked. There would clearly be racist motives among Bruges supporters. The cavalry was also deployed. Finally, at 10 p.m. Beşiktaşsupporters armed with cobblestones and on their way from the market to Zand, surrounded by the police. A coordination meeting was held on 2 March. The parquet, the police area of Bruges, the coordination and support service of the federal police (CSD) West Flanders, the fire department, Home Affairs, the Red Cross and of course Club Bruges themselves were present. On the agenda was the ticket policy, the measures at the stadium to prevent supporters from mixing, the communication with the Beşiktaşsupporters, stewards, the approach to pyrotechnics, the gates and the service 100. There were also several discussions between the security officer of Club Bruges and the Bruges police area. In the run-up to the game there was therefore actually a permanent discussion between the club and the local police. This was clearly a high-risk competition. There were threats on social media to the board of Beşiktaş and Club Bruges, there were Garşi's frustrations for not getting tickets, there were the backgrounds in 2002 following the match between Club Bruges and Galatasaray, there were the Beşiktaşsupporters who tried massively to get tickets for the Bruges courses. In addition, the 100th anniversary celebration of the Bruges senior scholars was added, although this is more of a friendly affair. I'm sure you'll find 497 police officers. In addition, Club Bruges mobilised 275 stewards. A total of 772 people were thus mobilised for safety and security. Special attention was paid to the use of Turkish-speaking staff. The local government and the chief of police have indeed announced an investigation. Given that the necessary work is being done at local level and since an investigation is also ongoing at criminal law level, I will not have an investigation conducted at this stage. The judicial and administrative investigations prevail. I refer to the answers I will give later on to the fourth and fifth questions. The FPS Home Affairs football cell will follow this incident within its powers and give an appropriate administrative follow-up to it. Where relevant, the football cell may, on the basis of the findings and/or research results listed above, propose improvements in order to continuously improve the integrated approach to the phenomenon of hooliganism. The football cell is there not only to fight phenomena but also to put forward policy proposals from research into what has happened specifically. I come to your fourth and fifth questions. An efficient approach to football-based violence should be based on an integrated approach, a chain approach, where everyone within his/her role should take full responsibility. The coordination of security policy in the case of football-related violence rests with the FPS Home Affairs. This integrated approach is well developed and secured in the regular functioning of all relevant services. However, this does not prevent incidents from happening when one speaks of an incident and when one speaks of a major action? As in Bruges, this can always be the case. As mentioned above, you can learn from any incident. Consequently, the necessary adjustments will be made if they prove necessary as a result of these incidents. The football cell within the FPS Home Affairs operates on the basis of the football law which allows for an administrative procedure to be carried out to charge persons who infringe the football law. This law applies to competitions in which a team of first, second or third classes participates and provides for rapid sanctions which can be pronounced within six months of the event, such as a stadium ban of three months to five years, which can be combined with harsh sanctions, such as fines of 250 to 5 000 euros. Such rapid and harsh sanctions should ensure security in football matches. The football cell depends on the minutes transmitted by the local and federal police. For several years now, several police forces have been calling for the relevance and importance of consistent national application of the football law. From the integrated approach, the KBVB and the clubs of the Pro League are also involved in the approach to the safety story. The first-class clubs have the possibility to impose a civil stadium ban on a supporter if he infringes the rules of internal order. The clubs therefore have the necessary resources to deal with their troublemakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. Soccer is a party and should stay a party. Racism doesn't belong on the field or around the field. I am pleased that you are condemning these facts. There was indeed racism at stake, and we must all strongly condemn it. There is currently an administrative and judicial inquiry. Let us wait and see. I hope the testimonies and the footage taken from the helicopter provide sufficient material. It is about some hotheads that are screwing things up, and we must not allow that to happen. They are wronging the thousands of supporters who come to watch a football game. The clubs don't deserve it, the players don't deserve it, and neither do the community. The Chief Constable also, of course, talked about the measures the clubs can take. However, many people were involved in the incidents without a stadium ban. It is true that a certain core cannot enter the stadium, but it seems that the problem is getting worse and there is a need for strong action. The newspaper also said that wearing T-shirts with the message no to racism does not mean that racism will disappear automatically. I call on the clubs and supporters to be fair play and to prevent racism in sport. We will, of course, wait and see what the criminal investigation will yield. Minister, I invite you to further motivate and sensitise the football cell in order to combat hooliganism and to appeal to the clubs even more to their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u44	Mr Yüksel, before I give you the floor for your next question, I would like to point out that, under the Rules of Procedure, speaking time for questions and answers is limited to five minutes and two minutes for any reply. The previous question lasted 17 minutes and I hope this will not be the case for your next question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u45	Mr President, this means that it was a very interesting subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u46	Mr President, Minister, the 12 anti-radicalisation measures were explained in the United Commission for Justice, Defence and Home Affairs. It was mainly about determining the level of threat in particular situations by the government on the advice of the National Security Council. You said at the time that this depends on the definition of these particular situations. There was also an interesting discussion at the time on what measures belong to which level of threat. You replied at the time that this did not exist, but you said that there was a need for a more planned description of these situations in order to create a transparent system. At that time it will be possible to say what measures are required at which level of threat. My questions to you are simple, Minister. How are we doing on this exercise? By when can we expect the outcome, or do you already have it? What new measures will be taken in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u47	The threat level is not determined by the government but by the OCAD. The National Security Council takes note of this and considers the measures to be taken, after which the Crisis Centre establishes them. We discussed this question in the National Security Council. We have come to the conclusion that the definition of measures for each level of threat is not desirable and is not feasible. The measures depend on the nature of the threat. Two threats can both give rise to threat level 3, but are of a totally different nature. The threat in Verviers was a threat to the police in general, requiring measures to protect the police. A threat to the first-class supporters of football requires very different measures. Determining an algorithm of threat levels with specific measures can be made on paper but that makes little sense, because the intensity may be similar but the nature of the threat can be completely different. So we're not gonna do that exercise. We are going to leave that to people from the Crisis Centre who specialise in it and who have proven that they can do this very quickly. After the National Security Council has come together and has taken note of an adjusted threat level by the OCAD, the Crisis Centre meets immediately. That center is made up of professionals: people from the federal police, the security of the state, the army's intelligence service. They will come up with measures very soon. After a progressive insight, we think that writing a book of measures in advance is not so useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u48	Mr President, Minister, moving insight is a good thing, especially for politics. It is indeed interesting and sensible to leave that to the people. Every threat will indeed be different in practice and so one cannot simply say what the measures are for a certain level of threat.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u49	Mrs Dumery, you had addressed your question to the Minister for Mobility, but she will be answered by Minister Jambon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u50	Mr Minister, I had indeed addressed this question to the Minister responsible for Transport and Mobility, but I agree that she was forwarded to the Minister for the Interior. It concerns the tolerance margins for speeding offences. There is the statutory margin, which should normally be applied strictly when flashing, of less than 10 km per hour. In fact, they admit that the measuring devices are not always waterproof. It appears, however, that one zone out of six would deviate and grant a wider margin. As a result, of course, there is a difference between one police zone and another. Perpetrators can drive faster in one zone without penalty, while being punished in another. The reason for this would be that there is a shortage of men and that there is a large workload in certain areas. How do you feel about that? Do you support that kind of policy? Will you make sure everyone is treated right before the law? I also have a technical question. What authority controls the accuracy of the flash devices? If the margin of tolerance is based on this, perhaps more accurate devices should be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u51	Mrs Dumery, I share your view that, for reasons of legal certainty, it would be desirable for the tolerance limit to be the same for all speed controls in all areas. The tolerance threshold itself is imposed by a circular from the College of Attorneys General. That circular speaks of a general and general tolerance threshold. But there is always one thing, but the prosecutors can deviate from it on the basis of their prosecution policy and give instructions to the police forces to the contrary. There is therefore a general circular from the College of Attorneys General, but local prosecutors can deviate from that and give other orders to the police. I'm sorry to have to tell you this now. You have already reached Mr Galant and I with your questions, but for that specific fact you must be with Mr Geens, the Minister of Justice. The legislator has provided for differences to be determined and regulated because of regional and/or local specificity. For the following reasons, it is not legally possible for my office to enforce them. Let me give you some examples. The sixth state reform makes speed a competence for the Regions, with the exception of speed on motorways, so there are already two levels of competence. The local security council determines the policy in the police area and sets the priorities, which is legally enshrined in the law of the police officer. Finally, this is all happening within the tolerance limit set by the prosecution, as I told you at the beginning of my reply. I can answer your second question as follows. The apparatus used to carry out the checks shall be subject to the model approval, to the initial verification, to the re-check and to the roadworthiness tests provided for in the Law of 16 June 1970 on units of measurement, standards of measurement and instruments of measurement. Model approval was granted by the Meteorology Service on the basis of the measurement test and research reports of an accredited organism. This matter has recently been a competence of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Economy and the Minister of Mobility and Transport. The Sixth State Reform also transferred this competence to the Regions. So we have a very homogeneous set of competences, and that is cynical.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u52	I thank the Minister for his clear answer. When it comes to traffic legislation and its application, I often come to the Minister of Justice. Then it turns out that both police judges and prosecutors apply margins, one more stringent than the other. I will therefore put my question to the Minister of Justice again, because I think I should be with him for this. The measuring device itself can only be measured and Homologized.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u53	Mr. Chair, Minister, this is a perfect question to ask on April 1. The press was able to echo, on 11 March, a rock event in the mono-communal area of Jemeppe-sur-Sambre, which is in addition to a list already provided with blunders within this police zone. To sum up the facts in a few words: two robbers are caught in the bag, committing a robbery in the Zeeman store in Jemeppe. They're stopped at the end of a chase. One of the criminals is put in a dungeon for the night, while the other, for lack of space, is locked in an office. The night falls and the police station falls asleep, if you can tell. Still, during the night, the individual who was in the office was able to dismantle the door. The press first said that he would have found a key, but today we give further details about the facts – I quote –: "unlike what was said, there was no stolen key. The one who came out, just blew up a lock before he went to get his accomplice. The two men then went to pick up the documents about them – their file – before fleeing through the window of an office, which was not equipped with bars." It is also explained that there were two cameras, but they are poorly located and therefore useless. Minister, I speak in a light tone about this incident, as the facts seem incredible, but they ask real questions about how the service to citizens is done in terms of security. Thus, it will be surprising first of all that a person arrested in connection with such an offence is kept in a simple room under lockdown. Is such a practice common? Should it be considered normal? In such cases, where there is a lack of room in the cells due to work in the building, would there not have been a need to arrange for a secure space? There is also the question of monitoring. At the time I wrote my question, I only had information published in the written press. Today, we know a little more. I had the feeling that there was no one in this precinct. We are told that two people were there, but they didn't hear anything and that the cameras were in a bad position. What is the rule regarding the supervision of persons incarcerated in police stations? To my knowledge, the escapees have not been taken back. Can you confirm or invalidate this? In any case, no information is available on this subject. Who's looking for them? Is anyone looking for them? Who coordinates the search for these two individuals, who could potentially re-offend if they are not retaken? Subsequently, the Sudpress group has always published an article describing the Jemeppe police as a sort of "Police Academy" and evoking about ten gaffes that have occurred in recent years within this police zone. Two angry police officers fighting in a café, the new boss of the taxi service who was convicted for a sale of a weapon and a false report, the police who no longer pay their taxes for putting into circulation, cannabis plants that disappear from the police station... I pass, and the best, according to the formula of Victor Hugo. Today, the press again reports: "Jemeppe's police officers did not digest the escape. The head of the zone is primarily responsible for the current situation." The article speaks of a "uneasy climate within this area". The explanations given by the head of the zone would not be appreciated by the police. Minister, what role can you play in such a case? I know that there is autonomy of the local police, that there is a mayor, president of the zone and a police council. However, how do you look at these events? If there are repeated malfunctions that are proven, what initiative can you take at your level?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u54	Mr. Delizée, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u55	It's a nice story.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u56	Yes, it is. The date is well chosen, since it is April 1st. First of all, I will not rule on this particular case, because an investigation is under way. I don't wish to interfere. In any case, I want to assure you that there are very strict rules for keeping an inmate. The same applies to the security of deprivation of liberty: searches, description of cells, etc. I'll be aware of the outcome of the investigation. Then I will act properly. I do not wish to comment on the possible liability of the police officers involved in this case. I will rely entirely on the results of the ongoing investigation. With regard to the current situation of the two escapees, this matter falls within the competence of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u57	Mr Minister, I thank you for this brief answer. When you're talking about an investigation, is it an internal investigation by your administration into the facts that occurred? [[Oui]] Will it look at the overall functioning of the said police zone or will it address only the issue of the two escapees?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u58	You know, as soon as I'm told that there are problems in a police area, I have to investigate. In this case, it covers the whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u59	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u60	Mr Minister, my question concerns the smuggling of human beings in West Flanders. It is a well-known problem that many people without a valid residence status travel through West Flanders from Northern France or vice versa in order to actually be able to go to Great Britain. Both the French and the West Flemish coastal regions are often confronted with this. We often see people staying in tent camps in northern France, some of which are very close to our border. That's where people smugglers just drop refugees in car parks. The reason is very simple, Minister, in the past it was done in France. In France, these parkings are closed because of the danger of illegal immigrants and then they drop them with us in West Flanders, but sometimes elsewhere. As far as the scale of the problem is concerned, the figures for the number of refugees in these camps are quite different. Some speak of a thousand, others speak of much more than double. What keeps coming back is that the saturation point has already been reached. I have some questions about that. I remember there used to be in Ostend tent camps in the park. My question is: have there been such tent camps in West Flanders as there are often in northern France? If so, where? In what way will you deal with these camps? Do you have an estimate of the likely number of people staying in West Flanders without a valid residence status and of the likely number of people being deported by smugglers in West Flanders? How many people without residence status were arrested in West Flanders? Moreover, in my recent absence from Belgium, due to a conference at the Council of Europe, I have seen a figure of almost 500. What nationality is this? Is there cooperation with France specifically to address this problem because one can move freely between the countries in the Schengen area? I had the honour to speak to a British Member of Parliament, Keith Vaz, yesterday. He knows the problem, too. England has even invested in Calais. Apparently it's not enough to stop the people there. Is there any improvement or deterioration in cooperation with France around this point? What consequences would our region, my province, have if France were to break down those tent camps that still exist, especially near Calais, or to take even stricter action against people with illegal residence status?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u61	Mr President, I should like to apologize in advance, but I am afraid that with this extensive question we are going to break the 17-minute record. I'm also going to give you the answer in writing, because it contains tables and graphs that I'm not going to read to you, but I'm going to hand them over to you. Tent camps, as we know them in France, are not present in West Flanders. Three years ago, there were several findings that people in administrative irregular conditions were hiding in the corn fields around the car parks of the motorways. Due to police actions and agreements about cutting the roadside and surroundings around the parking lot, hiding was made difficult and the phenomenon then stopped. It can be said that the phenomenon of climbing in itself has not stopped. The transit migrants stay in the French camps and are then taken to the Belgian car parks in West Flanders by car or minivans and try to climb into a truck. Their goal is to reach the United Kingdom by climbing into the trucks that take their break in the Belgian car parks, then crossing through the seaports of Calais and Dunkirk. France is also familiar with this phenomenon and, as a result of this situation, has simply closed the French car parks. They don't hide in the cornfields anymore, but they hide the ladders there and then climb up in the trucks. So there are plenty of clues and traces that these are organized phenomena. I come to your second question. We can only focus on the findings and interceptions of persons without residence status. I will give you the tables showing the number of interceptions of the persons found on and along the parkings of motorways in West Flanders, then linked to the police unit and the municipality of find and the nationalities of the persons. I have all that information at my disposal here. We can conclude from this that the persons found in the parkings almost always climb under supervision and that most of them are supplied by smugglers. So we are talking about organized crime. Then I come to your third question. Here too, I provide you with tables of the number of illegal immigrants arrested in 2014 per month in the province of West Flanders. In 2014, 2 112 illegal immigrants were arrested in the province of West Flanders. That amounts to 176 illegals a month, or six a day. That's significant, isn't it? The nationalities of the illegals found in the province of West Flanders in 2014 can also be found in the tables. I'll get you that information, too. The cooperation with France, called Franco-Belge, consists of a network of different working groups including the Working Group on Migration. In addition to cooperation in the form of the exchange of statistics and judicial information via Europol, there is also a form of cooperation during judicial operations in the context of trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings on the motorway in West Flanders. During a meeting last month, France requested a Belgian participation in smaller operations, an even more extensive exchange of judicial information and an increase in mixed rail patrols. Any cooperation can always be strengthened and strengthened, but we can certainly speak of good and smooth contacts. It can be seen that the French have been paying more attention to international cooperation in recent months. So we also see an evolution there. Then there's your fifth question. The camp is a safe house for persons without residence status. They are tolerated and receive food through aid organisations. The distribution of food makes it possible for France to make a census of the number of people present. So that's a form of control. There have already been some storms on a ferry. Migrants try to storm and climb in many vehicles and buses waiting for the ferry to enter. This form of aggression and nuisance obliges France to follow its approach to tent camps more closely. In Italy, the route to the United Kingdom via French seaports is already known on arrival. If their objective cannot be achieved through French seaports, they will certainly shift their territory and try to reach the United Kingdom through other border posts. It is possible that Zeebrugge's seaport will become a major attraction or even more use will be made of the Belgian car parks, or they will try to reach the United Kingdom by means of false documents via Eurostar or the airports. It is my feeling that the flow of migration will not be stopped by clearing up the camps. The problem will only move, possibly inland from France or Belgium. There is always a large stream of refugees on the move. This problem cannot therefore be dealt with in isolation, but must be dealt with at European and international level. That has everything to do with the situation in the Middle East. We are talking about migratory flows to the United Kingdom. A large number of them are families fleeing Syria. They might as well apply for asylum here. They're gonna get that, too. However, there is the lure to the United Kingdom and such degrading situations are brought to light. Let me give you an example from practice. Not so long ago, the police in West Flanders received a phone call from three Pakistani who were sitting in a refrigerator and threatened to die of hypothermia. They were able to call, but of course they couldn't situate that cooler. The police were lucky enough to find out where that cooler was. People have been able to save those people. There are really inhumane and degrading situations going on. That is why we wanted to carry out a sensitisation campaign with press coverage of these climbing actions. We cannot pay enough attention to this, because these are poignant situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It is true that there are very poignant situations in which organized crime takes advantage of the situation of those people to make large sums of money. I also hear that there is an increasing number of shooting incidents. I can only ask that you continue to pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u63	Mr President, Mr Minister, Article 308, §§ 1 and 2, and the table in Annex 3 to the Royal Decree of 19 April 2014 on the administrative and financial status of operational personnel in rescue zones provide the conditions to be met by an officer in order to apply the rule granting him the highest rank when moving from the pre-area to the operational zone. According to the fact that a staff member has several specific rules of integration, the higher rank is granted. Thus, under certain cumulative conditions of holding diplomas, certificates obtained and seniority, a second lieutenant or a lieutenant may become a captain when crossing the zone. So far, I'm just reminding you of a legal framework that you know as well as I do. But now you know that I often base my concerns on concrete examples that can be found throughout the country so as not to fall into particularism. The said Royal Decree therefore provides that a second lieutenant and a lieutenant holding a level A or equivalent diploma have no other conditions to fulfil in order to become a master at the crossing in the zone. But a perverse effect occurs when the transition to a zone, from one pre-area to another, is delayed. Thus, a junior lieutenant engineer newly engaged in a fire department with, for example, a year of seniority, became a captain when he passed through the area, for example on 1 January 2015. A lieutenant engineer from a nearby pre-area with, for example, fifteen years of seniority, will only become a captain when he passes through the area, for example on 1 January 2016. The young second lieutenant who became captain would thus find himself with a greater seniority than his older colleague from the neighbouring area, and thus potentially priority in the event of promotion to a higher rank in the context of interzonal mobility. This is a case in point which is more than likely. Will the lieutenant who became captain a year later have one year less seniority in the rank of captain than his colleague who was in the same rank a year earlier? Should this kind of perverse effect be considered to be inevitable in the event of a delay? Is it not possible to consider the effect of seniority in a new rank from the date on which all pre-areas become zones? What concrete measures are you going to take to avoid this perverse and perfectly unfair effect?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u64	Mr Blanchart, in your question, you are referring to a possible difference in seniority of rank between fire officers according to the date on which their fire department was integrated into a rescue zone. You can have all your appeasements in this regard. Article 309 of the Royal Decree of 19 April 2014 on the administrative status of operational personnel in emergency zones provides that: "Where reference is made in this Decree to the seniority of service or rank, it shall also cover seniority acquired as an operational member of a public fire service." The date of the crossing therefore has no influence on the seniority of rank or service. As a result of the decrease in the number of ranks in the new status and the specific rules of integration for officers, a new rank sometimes corresponds to several old ones. In other words, for the calculation of seniority of grade, the principle is that the services provided are taken into account in all the old grades which allow integration into this new grade. A table of equivalences is available on the website of the Directorate-General for Civil Security. Furthermore, as indicated in the report to the King of the above-mentioned decree, seniority is taken into account separately depending on whether it has been acquired as a professional or as a volunteer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u65	Minister, I thank you for this very clear answer which will certainly reassure several officers who, in Hainaut, are in a situation of waiting on this subject. Especially since, at times, the number of officers appointed and appointed before passing through a neighbouring area may seem very important, and thus cause concern to officers in an area whose leaders have taken into account the precautionary principle before crossing the zone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u66	Minister, last week the press reported a hit-and-run in which the victim himself was able to track down the perpetrator. A man and his son were driven in Drongen near Ghent by a car off the bicycle path next to the R4. Both had to go to the hospital with injuries. The unsub just drove on and disappeared. Thereupon the father himself started a search: a campaign on social media calling for information about the offender to be disclosed so that it could be traced. After massive reactions, the unsub could be identified. When the man with the information collected knocked on the door of the police, he was told that an interrogation could not take place until a week later. The driver of the crash was on catch-up leave. That's hilarious, of course, almost a Kafkaian story. Minister, how do the police deal with citizens who, for example here, are trying to help through search in a case? How are tools from the digital world, such as tracking tools and dashboard cameras, integrated with the police? What is the position of the police with regard to citizens who come forward with useful information on their own initiative? How is this integrated into the idea of community-oriented police care, an idea that was nevertheless central to the 1998 police reform? Finally, we must, of course, pay attention to this. How will people restrict excesses in which citizens conduct their own investigations and possibly violate the privacy or rights of defence? That's a gray zone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u67	Mr Yüksel, in view of the ongoing judicial investigation, I cannot comment on the facts themselves, that is clear. In general, I can tell you the following. Searching in the sense of research in a specific investigation remains the prerogatives and monopoly of an inspection service or police. Thus, on the one hand, the structured organisation of observation on public roads or public places with the aim of informing or informing the police services is to be regarded as interference, if not in the tasks or in the action of the police forces, as is also prohibited in Article 1 of the Law on private militias. I refer to a circular from the Minister for the Interior dated 13 October 1995 concerning the vigilante initiatives at the time. There was a clarification on that at the time. On the other hand, Article 30 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which states that "who has witnessed an attack, either against public security or against a person's life or property, shall also inform the King's Attorney, either of the place of the crime or of the malpractice, or of the place where the suspect may be found." The civil duty to report crimes, which may be witnessed, is therefore an important contribution by citizens to a viable and safe society, as it strengthens the information position of police forces. The police do try to involve citizens actively in the prevention of crime. This can be done by taking preventive measures: home or PC security. For a phenomenon such as thefts in the home, the police also sensitize citizens to report suspicious acts or circumstances in their living environment. These tips can lead to elements that help concrete things to move forward. The neighbourhood information networks should be seen in that light. I shall then come to your second question. The possibility of using certain methods in specific investigations relating to the detection of of offenders was laid down in the legal framework, in particular the Code of Criminal Procedure. That legal framework was laid down by Parliament. However, this does not prevent virtually all police areas and various services from already communicating with citizens via various social media. Communication channels such as Twitter, Facebook and websites are used by local and federal police to inform citizens about the implementation of police policy with a view to accountability, but also to sensitise citizens to contributing to living and security. A distinction should therefore be made between the use of tools from the digital world in criminal investigations, which you asked for, and their use in the internal or preventive operation of police forces. With regard to the detection of of offenders, any specific information provided by a citizen shall be recorded in a report submitted to the leading magistrate, the magistrate of the prosecution or the investigating judge. The magistrate is responsible for checking the legality and loyalty of the evidence. This is done in order to avoid the use of prohibited detection methods by a citizen to be subsequently used by a declaration in legal proceedings. If a citizen brings anything to the police, the police will report it to the prosecution. It is the magistrate who will evaluate whether or not the data has been lawfully obtained. The police then simply act as a pass-through door. The community-oriented police care, to which you refer, is still central to police reform. However, community-oriented police care has never included the idea that the citizen will or can take up police duties in tracking down the perpetrators. As far as your last question is concerned, regardless of the possible procedural implications for the offender's trial, a citizen who has committed crimes will be prosecuted. Any police officer who identifies such a citizen's crime shall be required to produce a PV. The minutes shall be submitted to the public prosecutor, who shall decide on possible further prosecutions in the context of an investigation or a judicial investigation. The prosecution falls within the competence of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u68	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive, clear and clear answer. We must ensure that useful information provided by citizens is used. You confirmed that. Citizens must, of course, remain within the legal framework and must not think of themselves as police officers or magistrates. Such tasks are an exclusive competence of the police and judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u69	Question No 3161 by Mrs Vanessa Matz has already been dealt with with by Mr Willy Demeyer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u70	Mr President, Minister, observations from the Belgian Road Safety Institute show that a pedestrian crosses five when the light is red. Despite a general decline in the number of road victims, pedestrians' share of victim statistics is increasing. Between 2008 and 2014, the number of pedestrians among the road deaths increased from 10.5 to 13 %. Pedestrian crossing when the light is on red is a problem for road safety. They can cause an accident themselves or their behaviour can be copied by others, such as children, resulting in an accident. In view of the increasing proportion of pedestrians among road victims, sensitisation remains important. Pedestrians should be aware of the dangers if they ignore a red light. Crossroads must also be safe, which means that there must be good visibility and clear road markings and road signs. I would like to answer two questions, Minister. Recently, an initiative was launched in the media in which cyclists can be fined when driving through the red light. Does the police also issue such fines for pedestrians who ignore the traffic light? If yes, how many fines were issued in 2014? Given the figures, will you encourage the police to train more in schools and youth movements about safe crossing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u71	Mr President, Mr Demon, as far as pedestrians are concerned, the police only make a few observations a year about ignoring the traffic light. The figures I give you relate only to the findings that led to a report. In many cases, police action is limited to a warning or, in relation to younger road users, to a youth-pv with compulsory traffic lessons. The latter happens in consultation with the local parquets. Centrally, no data are recorded. The data available to me show that there were 29 such infringements in 2010, in 2011 39, in 2012 30, in 2013 32 and in the first half of 2014 11. As far as cyclists are concerned, the number of findings that have led to a report is much higher. In 2010, this was completed at 1 300, in 2011 at 1 300, in 2012 at 1 700, in 2013 at 2 000, in 2013 at 2 000 and in the first half of 2014 at 945. At local level, the police support many educational initiatives aimed at schools and youth movements. Several police areas are also committed to such initiatives. So it is not only up to the police to launch such projects or to take such initiatives. Considering excellent police care, local police services will participate in such questions from schools and youth movements as a loyal partner.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u72	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that there are fewer police reports for pedestrians, although the figures seem to me to be on the low side. I wonder whether sufficient attention will be paid to this. I would ask you to use your contacts to ask the municipal and urban police areas to pay even more attention to this issue. After all, we know that the copying behaviour of children is very large.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u73	Mr President, Minister, the Royal Decree of 7 April 2005 laid down the special rules for calculating and allocating communal allocations within a multi-municipal police area in which the municipalities do not always reach an agreement. This order expired. The municipalities concerned are therefore in the most complete legal vacuum since the beginning of 2013. Minister, your predecessor was talking about a few final tests to be performed to determine the criteria and weights that will be used. Where are we? Will the KUL standard be updated in a new by-law?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u74	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, every week in this committee, I answer this type of question by confirming that there is no provision in the government agreement to review the KUL standards.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u75	I should have filed a written question. I beg your pardon, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u76	That's not necessary. Nevertheless, I wish to resolve the contradiction between the operative part of the Royal Decree of 7 April 2005 and its annex, given the material error between these two texts. While the scheme refers to a share of each municipality in the budget of the area defined at 60 % by its standard KUL, 20 % by its average taxable income per capita and 20 % by its average cadastral income, the percentage allocated in the annex to the decree to each municipality appears to have been calculated on the basis, in fact, of its total taxable and cadastral income. Since the police areas have so far applied the percentage mentioned in the annex to the Royal Decree, the updating of the criteria setting the financial base of the municipalities has been carried out at the beginning of the total figures of taxable income and cadastral income in order to change the formula. The KUL standard which cannot be technically updated shall remain unchanged and shall retain the same weight (60 %) in the formula which has taken account of the most recent consolidated evolution of the other two criteria. In order to fill any legal gap, the draft royal decree therefore provides, on the one hand, for the maintenance of the default application of the original rule of 60/20/20 for all decisions adopted before its adoption. On the other hand, it provides for the application of the updated 60/20/20 in its last two criteria beyond that same date, still in the absence of agreement between the municipalities concerned, in accordance with Article 3, § 1 of the coordinated laws on the Council of State. The draft will shortly be submitted to the Committee for its opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u77	Minister, I still want to apologize because this is one of the questions I tabled on November 26, 2014 that are somehow catching up. This question, which has been lost in nature, obviously comes to you far too late. In the meantime, I fully understand that answers have been given. The file is evolving. Indeed, interpretation criteria were given to avoid problems arising from a certain form of "legal vacuum" with the evolution of the Royal Decree of 2013. Minister, I will pass on your answer to all the mayors who have asked me about this in my region. I would add that I have the opportunity to consult your answers thematically. In any case, I thank you for having answered again on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u78	Mr President, I would like to defer my question No 3229 on the merger of police zones.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u79	That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u80	Mr President, Minister, you certainly know ERAP, the Regional School of Public Administration of the Brussels-Capital Region. Since 2010, the ERAP has had the approval to organize and deliver the basic training of peacekeepers and to issue the related certificate, in accordance with a decree of May 2009. This accreditation expires on 20 October 2015, but in the meantime, a law was enacted (on 13 January 2014) introducing new skills themes within the framework of the training of peacekeepers, as well as a mandatory examination for the branches taught. For the time being, there is no enforcement order. As a result, the RAPE is unable to adjust the training program to these new provisions. In addition, the RAPE did not receive a response to its application for renewal of its licence. The issue is the following: all agents on the waiting list. To my knowledge, there are 116 of them. This implies a number of difficulties for Brussels municipalities, since ERAP is the only recognised body in the Brussels-Capital Region to provide training and validation certificates. Minister, I would like you to clarify to me the time frame within which the implementing provisions, the receipt of the approval and the orders, will be carried out in order to see the ERAP resume the training sessions of the peacekeepers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u81	The implementing decree on the new conditions for the training of peacekeepers, following the amendment of the law of 15 May 2007 by the law of 13 January 2014, is currently under review by my cabinet. At the same time, my administration is analysing applications for accreditation or renewal by the various training organizations with a view to submitting them to the Peacekeepers Training Commission in the near future. In this way, the new licences requested may be issued within four months of the publication of the implementing order referred to here. In the case of renewals of authorisation, as in the case of the ERAP, the time limits will be reduced by half, i.e. within two months of the publication of the above-mentioned decree. As for the publication of the order itself, it will take place shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u82	These are the details I expected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u83	Mr. Chair, Minister, I'm going to have to rework my question on-line because I tabled it a while ago. Things are moving in the right direction because the case has progressed well. Indeed, I had sent you a letter with numerous annexes to explain the situation regarding the coverage rate of the four communes wishing to return to the Hainaut-Est area. In the meantime, the National Advisory Committee, which you have convened, has considered this matter and has given a favourable opinion on the return of the four communes. There was still the problem of retroactivity since these four communes were, in terms of the fire service, responsible for...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u84	Mr President, I am sorry, but I have not received this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u85	Mr. Blanchart, the commission department and the minister's office thought you had withdrawn your question. The answer has therefore not been prepared and, therefore, the Minister cannot answer you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u86	In fact, I was essentially going to thank you and make me the Governor's spokesman that I had this morning on the phone, who tells me that he had contact with you with respect to retroactivity and that it was favorable. So if you confirm that, you've answered the question, it's perfect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u87	I can confirm that. I raised this issue with the governor. It can therefore be said that I have answered the question, if this is the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u88	That's a good answer to a good question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u89	I naturally confirm what I said before.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u90	Thank you, minister, and thank you again from the governor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u91	Mr President, Minister, on 18 February 2014, during a hearing before the Committee on Finance and the Budget, the Prosecutor-General at the Brussels Court of Appeal noted that the fight against economic and financial crime, in particular serious tax fraud, currently results in very poor results. All too often, cases result in a finding of the statute of limitations of public action or of exceeding the reasonable time limit due to shortcomings at all levels of the criminal chain: lack of investigators, experts, specialized or available magistrates. However, the fight against major serious or organised tax or social fraud must be a priority. The lack of resources devoted to combating economic and financial crime leads to enormous losses for the State and social security funds. Belgium would lose between €26 billion and €30 billion each year due to tax evasion, i.e. between 26% and 30% of all tax revenues. Tax evasion also jeopardizes the mechanisms of solidarity and redistribution of wealth and creates injustices towards honest taxpayers, who are also called for to do so. Your colleague Secretary of State for the Fight against Tax Fraud recently presented an action plan on this subject to the House's Finance and Budget Committee. With regard to police services, this action plan contains four recommendations from the 2009 parliamentary inquiry into major tax fraud cases. Ms. Sleurs indicated that many of the successful features of OECDFO (Central Office for Combating Organized Economic and Financial Crime) are at risk and that the available unit may be limited or partially private in its operational features. And to add that, within the framework of the budgetary conclave, it will require additional resources in order to carry out more controls. When I read the results of budgetary control, I see that revenue is expected to increase, but I have not seen any additional resources allocated in relation to the strengthening of services. Minister, how is cooperation between the police and finance departments organized in the fight against economic and financial crime? Have you had any contact with Ms. Sleurs regarding her concerns about the Agency? How many agents does this office have today? What is the demographic situation in the age pyramid? How can we ensure that expertise is maintained in the future? How are new officers recruited and trained? How will you reconcile Ms. Sleurs' request for additional resources with the restriction on police recruitment (800 instead of 1,400)? What services will be penalized? The Police Optimization Plan, adopted by your predecessor, provides for the strengthening of the research capacity at the level of the five appeal courts, through the formation of multidisciplinary teams, on the one hand, and the strengthening of the specialized support role of the Office, on the other. What is the status of the implementation of this plan (Law of 26 March 2014 and Royal Decree of 23 August 2014)? Complementary resources are also provided for the fight against terrorism, but I assume that the 135 million are allocated to the State Security, the OCAM and the police and that we are not in the framework of the additional resources related to the adjustment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u92	Mrs Matz, collaboration with the ISI has been reduced by the Taxpayer Charter. The Act of 4 August 1986 stipulates that the tax officer may only be heard as a witness for the police and is not authorized to cooperate in the investigation. As a result, the possibility of resorting to extensive expertise has been lost. An exception was made for the Federal Police through the Act of 30 March 1994, which provided that twelve tax officers could be made available to OECDFO, the central service for combating organized economic and financial crime at the Federal Judicial Police. This service has been integrated since the optimalisation within DG SOC, the Directorate for Combating Serious and Organised Crime. I have already explained on several occasions in committee that following the reorganisation of the police, the four internal directorates of the judicial police linked to the fight against organised crime are now gathered within DG SOC. These tax officials, who have the status of judicial police officers, auxiliaries of the King's prosecutor, work on both the autonomous files of the OECDFO and in support of the PJFs. The Act of 20 September 2012 establishes the una via principle in the context of the prosecution of tax offences. This law provides for consultation between the Public Prosecutor's Office and the tax authorities. On your second question, I am aware, of course, of Mrs Sleurs' concerns. We talk to each other a lot. But I am convinced that we can ensure the effectiveness of the fight against serious economic and financial crime both in the new federal police organization and in the current structure. As of March 15, 2015, OECDFO had 62 people, including 42 from the operational framework, 4 from the administrative and logistical framework and 16 tax professionals. I have here the pyramid of ages, which I can pass on to you. There's no one under the age of 25. For the 25-29 age group, there is one person; 30-34 years: 4 persons; 35-39 years: 6 persons; 40-44 years: 11 persons; 45-49 years: 13 persons; 50-54 years: 12 persons; 55-59 years: 10 persons; over 60 years: 5 persons. The average age is rather high. The age pyramid does not pose a problem for the maintenance of expertise. However, we obviously have to recruit. For the quadrennials, we have only 11 people. Following an assessment of the needs of the operational units, the Recruitment Directorate opens positions as a senior financial inspector. A candidate may register on condition that he holds a bachelor's degree in accounting, taxation, law, commerce, economic or management science, or a diploma at least equivalent to the bachelor's degree and whose course programme has a sufficient number of hours for specific branches. He may also hold a diploma bearing another denomination recognized by the Ministry of Education as equivalent to one of the above-mentioned diplomas. Principal Inspector candidates with specialization – for example, financial experts – first undergo preparatory training in order to acquire the basic skills required. Then, they follow the basic training of principal inspector with the other aspirants. These two formations last about fifteen months. On the basis of their diploma and the two police training courses, candidates can join their service. The principal inspector who performs a function in a research department will also have to undergo judicial functional training which includes, among other things, a module on financial aspects and another entitled "specialised financial analysis". The reinforcement of the deconcentrated specialized units to combat serious economic and financial crime was literally provided for in the optimisation law. Optimization allows us to maximize the capacity and skills of investigators specialized in the deconcentrated levels of the federal police structure. In the same vein, central services can focus on their support and expertise missions. Given that optimisation is under way, it is premature to look at the final results. For your third question, I refer to my answer to the previous question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u93	Minister, thank you. You intend to rely on optimisation for additional reserves, but at this stage there are no means provided beyond optimisation to engage and strengthen these special units. I hope I understand your answer. It is the optimisation which, in your opinion, will allow additional staff to be made available for these specialized missions. We therefore do not entirely respond to the request not only from your colleague but also to the request to have additional means to fight, since we know that it is very much a matter for the State. I think that's a bit of a shame and that's what we're saying. The government plans an additional 100 million revenue on tax evasion, but it does not provide additional resources to strengthen the ISI and the services dedicated to this research.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u94	You always talk about extra resources. That's the old policy! We are trying to reorganize with the same envelope to get more effective administration. Problems are not always solved by adding resources or staff. Sometimes it is better to reorganize the services to have a better result. And following the revision of the budget, we will achieve better results because we have an overview of what we can do to combat tax fraud. These figures do not fall from the sky but are based on the actions that we can implement. It is not always necessary to add means, you can sometimes reorganize things to achieve a better result.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u95	Minister, it is not always a question of asking for additional resources, it is a question of setting priorities. That's what we've been saying all along. The same applies to the fight against terrorism. It is a government priority, we know that things are going hard and that with the huge savings that have been planned, we can't do more with less. That doesn't exist anywhere! I agree with you that if we are to reorganize, we can probably draw on additional reserves, but at some point we also need resources to carry out the priority policies. If the fight against tax and social fraud is a priority of the government, which I hope, it cannot simply say that it will act a little differently and that it will have complementary means. These are not old and new policies. It is a matter of being realistic about the objectives that we have set ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u96	The joint questions put by Mrs Jadin and Mr Thiébaut were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Biesen's 3244 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Gabriels' 3245 was postponed and will be discussed next time on the occasion of questions on the reform of the fire department.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u97	Mr President, Minister, this is a short question. Every year, the Home Office allocates a considerable amount to specific research projects. It is more specifically the General Directorate for Safety and Prevention, which launches a number of scientific studies every year. Researchers are asked to make some policy recommendations at the end of the study so that the studies are also useful in practice. My specific questions are as follows. What research projects have been carried out with the Home Affairs budget in recent years? Did these research projects focus on extremism, radicalisation or terrorism? Do you think it would be appropriate in future to have research conducted on current events with the terrorist threat in our country and the measures taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u98	Mr Demon, in recent years research has been launched on themes such as religiously inspired radicalism, the impact of new technologies on crime control, resilience training and radicalisation on the Internet. Several studies were indeed launched in that framework relating to radicalism, in which, depending on the finality, the outcomes have a conceptual, strategic or instrumental impact. In the coming months, I will look at how the resources for scientific research and/or radicalisation can be optimally used for applied research in support of policy and/or practice. I have the impression that, under the guise of radicalism, conferences are very often organised and investigations are carried out which do not always lead to practical improvements in the field. Doing something is important, but it must also lead to something. The latter is particularly important.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u99	I don't have much to add to that. The practical thing is the most important thing. An evaluation is needed, given the many resources flowing there. It must be effective in practical matters. That needs to be guarded.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u100	A round letter of December 2006 from Home Affairs and Justice Ministers contains a series of guidelines to facilitate and simplify some of the administrative tasks of local police. With this circular the ministers wanted to offer the local police chiefs a clear basic framework, on which the chiefs of police could fall back in order to deploy their operational staff as efficiently as possible without affecting the statutory tasks and core tasks of the police officer or police officers. That objective can be achieved through, firstly, a thorough CALOGisation; secondly, rationalisation of the current statutory administrative tasks; thirdly, agreement with other actors of the judicial and administrative columns in our country, such as the Magistrate, the bailiff and administrative authorities; and, fourthly, outsourcing of improper police tasks to external partners. The circular contains a special passage on co-operation between police and bailiffs as well as an annex 2 with a framework protocol concluded between the FPS Interior and the National Chamber of Court bailiffs. The framework protocol sets out the principles and modalities according to which the police services are expected to carry out their statutory tasks of assistance. Additional protocols may be concluded between all the district chambers and the police area, through the syndician chairman and the chiefs of police or their respective delegates, which take into account the characteristics and specificity of each police area without however derogating from the rules of the circular or the content of the framework protocol. However, if additional protocols are concluded, the circular states that, among other things, a copy of the additional protocol will be sent to the Home Office. Minister, was the framework protocol concluded in 2006 with the National Chamber of Court bailiffs already evaluated? If so, what are the main conclusions? If not, do you think this is advisable, given the ongoing debate on the central tasks of the police? Has the Home Office received any additional protocols as prescribed in the circular since 2006? If so, what were the main conclusions? If not, can it be concluded that there are no additional protocols concluded locally and there are therefore no problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u101	The circular to which you refer should normally be evaluated biannually by the Home Office in collaboration with the Federal Police Council. An initial evaluation was carried out in 2008 to assess the extent to which the various directives were implemented in the zones. As regards the procedures for intervention and cooperation between the bailiffs and the police, no problems were identified. However, it was proposed that a more structural solution would be developed, in addition to regulating special situations, through the conclusion of additional protocols by means of an amendment to the regulation. This has led, for example, to the amendment of the Court's Code on the service of bailiffs. More specifically, the distinction between service in criminal matters and civil matters was abolished, which often means that police intervention is no longer necessary and that the administrative workload for the Commissioners is drastically reduced. In principle, a new evaluation should have been carried out in 2010. However, in view of the current key tasks debate at the time, "nihil novum sub sole" was chosen by a scientific study to draw up as exhaustive an inventory as possible of the tasks entrusted to the police forces, to check the regulation against the objectives of basic police care and to determine whether those tasks should remain with the police. The results of the investigation showed that some zones experienced difficulties in their cooperation with the bailiffs, including as regards assistance. This led to a consultation between the National Chamber of bailiffs and the services of the then Minister with a view to following up the framework protocol and remedying any abuses. At the moment, as stipulated in the coalition agreement, another key task debate is under way with the federal police, examining and discussing all the tasks currently being carried out by the police. I can tell you that cooperation between the police and the bailiffs is certainly part of that. We are planning a new adaptation of cooperation, which should lead to a more efficient use of the police. Since 2006, two additional protocols have been received, from Liège and from Antwerp. The basis of such an added protocol is not troubleshooting, but optimising the rules for cooperation between the two professional bodies and formalising certain exceptional cases which had not yet been taken into account. This can take account of the specific features of some police areas, such as prisons or football stadiums, and of the geographical areas they cover.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u102	Thank you, that's obvious. Do I understand correctly that there was no evaluation in 2010 and no evaluation in 2012? In 2006 it was agreed that a biannual evaluation would be carried out. That only happened in 2008?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u103	One began with good courage but then lost it. I can only determine that with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u104	Mr President, Minister, the National Security Plan provides, in addition to a series of security priorities, for various strategic programmes for the federal police. One of these programmes relates to ICT and therefore undoubtedly affects the basic and supporting police processes. The National Security Plan mentions an evaluation of the information management and implementation of a modern information system. Can an interim evaluation be carried out of the implementation of the ICT objectives of the National Security Plan? How does the continued use of three different processing software programs for the formatting of minutes fit within the ICT objective? Will ICT management work with other public services and/or private partners? What are the current and planned initiatives to be able to draw up minutes on the ground? Is there already a global IT vision for the federal police and by extension for the integrated police? Has an external audit already taken place, as announced in the National Security Plan? If so, what were the main conclusions? Is there an impact on the local police?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u105	Mr President, this is once again an exhaustive answer to a good question from Mr Demon. If the question is asked, I have to answer it. According to the National Security Plan, the information management and ICT strategic programme should provide a vision by the end of 2015. This vision has already been validated by the Integrated Police Management Committee in June 2013. In November 2014, I took note of that file. In consultation with the Integrated Police Management Committee, the following six topics have been identified as priorities. The first priority is to work differently. Federal police have around 3,000 exchange mail users. A Blueprint Sharepoint is being prepared in function of all employees of the Integrated Police. The Council of Ministers has yet to agree to the extension of these services in cooperation with the ICT Shared Services of the federal government. The second priority is mobile work. In collaboration with SAS, new technology is being developed to make the current applications portable and ISLP mobile. The police zones Komen-Warneton, Haacht, GLM and HAZODI test the new mobile working in operational conditions. For the federal police, the tests are carried out with the railway police. Following these tests, the Council of Ministers should agree to the extension of these services in cooperation with the ICT Shared Services of the federal government. Third, ePolice. The file Intelligent Politicing was sent to me and discussed with me. Its realisation requires additional resources that we allocate for 2016. Fourthly, the police web platform migrated from a private environment to the SHS data center. The roll-out of the web platform will continue. By the end of 2014, more than 135 police services are active on the new web platform and around 40 police zones have launched the new website. The federal police portal is also included in the police's web platform. That is the situation today, 1 April 2015. The fifth priority is a virtually consolidated budget. Agreements are made within the federal police in consultation with the respective responsible authorities on the appropriate management and follow-up. Concrete agreements are made with the Federal Police Inspector General on validation procedures. Sixthly, the cooperation agreement between SHS and the integrated police. Since 2010, there has been a cooperation agreement between federal police and ICT Shared Services or SHS of the federal government. As has just been said, the intention is to extend this cooperation agreement to the integrated police or, in other words, to make it available to local police areas. That protocol is necessary in principle for, inter alia, the possibility of SHS billing to police areas and the management of relevant budgets. The adaptation of that Protocol with a view to an integrated cooperation agreement for the JPI takes more time than initially expected. The ePolice proposal aims, among other things, to replace the three basic applications ISLP, FEEDIS and Pol Office by an off the shelf externally available application. The proposal contains two baselines, namely infrastructure and software. Without becoming too technical, I can tell you the following. The infrastructure includes replacing the mainframe and reorganising the local dedicated service and thus consolidating all the available data, both the ANGS and the local servers, in a new platform to be established. The software includes all business software, including ISLP, FEEDIS, Pol Office, Bpad, GES and all applications used, but also intelligent software, such as Advanced Analytics, Social Media Listening and Sentiment Analysis, which has so far only been used sporadically by Belgian police forces. Basically, we want to create a completely new platform. What we are experiencing with the police is what is so often experienced, namely that over time they have only continued to add applications and that they are all columns and islets in themselves. We want to come to a new platform. I did ask to change the code name, because it was ISIS. In temporary non-suspecto they had given that code name to it. So now we want to go to an integrated platform, where all the local areas are present. Cooperation between zones often leads to problems. There's incompatibility or people can't work. All these problems can be solved in no time. As for your third question, in the context of working differently, whether the applications Exchange and SharePoint 2013 and mobile work, there is very close cooperation with the ICT Shared Services of the federal government, which can offer such applications as service. So we will not invent the hot water either. We will also apply what is already being applied in other FODs. The Police web platform is basically an open source platform, with open data, which is also hosted by ICT Shared Services. ePolice is part of a full purchasing process on which private partners can register. The programme also looks at the possibilities in the context of HR and logistics. As HR and logistics are not necessarily police-specific, it is considered to what extent cooperation with other public services can be achieved. I come to your fourth question. We want to make available the current police environment in a virtualised environment on the ground in the very short term. In collaboration with ICT Shared Services, a model was developed in which ground users connect to a unique access hosted by SHS via the internet by using only a browser. Then we link SHS through the police network and the respective police services where a virtualised environment is created and offered. The choices within the framework of working differently, and concrete Exchange and SharePoint 2013, in collaboration with SHS, are based on the Outlook web application. This means that no software must be installed on the devices of the users. They should only have a recent browser, which is available free of charge on all mobile devices. SharePoint, in combination with e-mail and Calendar, is currently being developed as the new intranet of the integrated police, accessible via the Internet, i.e. at any location and on any device of your choice. As far as your fifth question is concerned, the tasks of the programme are inherently linked to a new vision. The Integrated Police Coordination Committee has agreed to these proposals and has divided them into the four priority key themes: different working, mobile working, ePolice and the Police web platform. Full audit at information management and ICT levels has proved impossible with the planned amount of EUR 200 000. The budgetary savings also helped to ensure that the aforementioned audit was carried out in principle by the ISIS team, which is on the project, even with the observation that, if necessary, an audit could be provided for partial aspects such as security, infrastructure, etc. However, the inspection services were instructed, in place of the audit mentioned in the National Security Plan, to examine both the organisational and financial approach of the past. This is done by our inspection services. The audit confirms the vision and the need for the initiatives taken by the programme. The organisational challenges also find their realization in the optimization of the federal police, which is in full implementation. The evolution of information technology must therefore not be seen in isolation from organisational evolution. After all, we are making a move from central services to decentralised services. For this, it is important that all applications of the ePolice are accessible via a normal browser, otherwise they stay stuck in island automation. That's the cover we want to make. The necessary investments are planned in the multiannual budget and will be used from 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u106	I would like to know when we will see it in practice. The plans are being made and from 2016 onwards are the resources available to implement the plans in practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u107	Yeah, the most important part of it. However, there are already pilot projects in four or five zones, for example around SharePoint. If the pilot project is going well, we really need very little additional investment. The applications are here. They are offered centrally. At the moment, things are going well. We can roll it out without additional funding.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u108	Minister, we know that the police reform of 2001 radically reformed the police landscape. An integrated police force was established, the chalk lines of which were laid down in the Law of 7 December 1998 and the Royal Decree of 30 March 2001 on the legal status regime. It was chosen to introduce a local and federal police force in which the federal police also provide support services and perform specialized tasks for the local areas. Since 2001, these federal police have been able to have their staff trained so that they can master both national languages properly. However, there are several sources of complaints about that language. On the one hand, certain opinions such as consultation in the field of well-being at work, briefings in mixed operatives by managers, instructions for carrying out actions in the field, etc., are given only in French. On the other hand, it also appears that there are still managers who do not have Selor's language license. Knowledge of both national languages within the federal police, especially among executives, is crucial for efficient and effective action by our policemen in the context of public events and other events. Hence my questions. Can there be an investigation into the application of bilingualism within the federal police services? Can an overview be given of the number of executives within the federal police as regards Selor's qualifications regarding knowledge of the other national language?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u109	Mr Degroote, neither I nor the Federal Police Executive Committee know of any significant difficulties in understanding the opinions, briefings and other instructions drawn up. These are given in principle by bilingual officers in the bilingual units of the federal police or by monolingual officers in the monolingual units. Nevertheless, we have figures showing that 84 percent of the managers employed in the Brussels-Capital Region where bilingualism is required also effectively have a bilingual certificate. I will give some more details on this later in reply to your second question. I will draw the attention of the Commissioner-General of the Federal Police to the need for a catch-up with the group of executives without bilingualism. So there is still 16 % to go. As for your second question on bilingualism, you will find an overview of the number of executives within the federal police with or without Selor attestation. For the calculation, only managers employed in the Brussels-Capital Region were taken into account, either in the central unit or in a devolved unit, since only bilingualism is required there and there. Furthermore, we have defined the executives as an employee who is part of the officers' framework, in particular Commissioners and Commissioners. There are 1 080 managers employed in the Brussels-Capital Region. Of these there are 909 with a bilingualism certificate. So there are 171 without bilingualism, but as I have told you, I will ask the Commissioner-General to put a catch-up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u110	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you for your research and the figures and even more for the efforts you are going to make to get that catch-up movement going.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u111	Minister, the law on integrated police provides for far-reaching powers for executives, both local and federal. The involvement of managers has been extended by defining operational approaches, preventing and combating infringements, infringements, malpractices and crimes, but the law also gives executives more extensive tasks such as staffing and purchasing policies. For example, article 44 of the law on the integrated police gives the chief of police a great autonomy to the organisation of his corps. However, the increased autonomy of management operational staff has in some cases led to the lowering of standards and deontology within the integrated police force and this phenomenon is developing a worrying trend. Recently, a commissioner of the federal police of the diamond cell in Antwerp came into dispute. Since the police reform, Commissioners and Chiefs of Police have regularly been called into question, for example the malaise in Borgloon, the HAZODI affair, Commissioners of Ghent and Antwerp who were drunkenly caught behind the wheel and senior officers in the federal police who came into concussion. However, we note that the disciplinary status is hardly applied within the integrated police force, especially with regard to the managers and senior management who are responsible for ensuring the proper conduct of their staff. Minister, can you give an overview of the number of files submitted to the P Committee against officers and senior executives within the integrated police force and what is the result of this? Can you give an overview of the number of disciplinary files launched against officers and senior officers within the integrated police force and what results did this lead to? Can you give an overview of the number of disciplinary cases against senior officers that have been provided by the mayors and the Minister of the Interior since the police reform? Will you do anything to improve police control?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u112	Mr President, Mr De Groote, the procedure of oral questions leads to quick answers, but when it comes to such detailed questions, in which the number of files has been asked since the police reform, it is impossible for my services to reply so quickly. However, I would ask for some discipline from the members of the committee to distinguish between written questions, questions about dates, and oral questions. A demand for such a number of figures cannot get my services around at that short time. The deadline for replying to written questions has been agreed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u113	I'd be happy to translate them into a written question. I understand that, you are absolutely right, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u114	Mr President, Minister, when parents are born, they are faced with a number of administrative procedures. The first of these is the declaration of birth with the competent department of the municipality in which the maternity is situated. In order to do so, parents must go to the communal house within 15 days of birth, unless the municipality has other provisions. I am reminded that in some Brussels municipalities, hospitals send the mother's identity card directly to the municipal services, which can only be recovered once the birth declaration has been made. If the law obliges parents to declare the birth of their child within 15 days of the birth, it also obliges every citizen to carry his or her identity card. In addition, some municipalities have been equipped to ease administrative procedures for citizens. The Home SPF website states: "In some municipalities, it is also possible to declare the birth of your child at maternity. The declaration to maternity takes place in approximately the same way as that to the communal house and offers the same guarantees in terms of the authenticity of the act. Hospitals and the civil registration service must be equipped with a common secure computer system, so that it is impossible to declare the same child simultaneously at the communal house and maternity." The computer system described is the e-birth platform, launched in 2010. Minister, is the practice of sending the mother's identity card to the municipality legal? How many municipalities are currently connected to the e-birth platform? What were the objectives of the original project? Has the e-birth program been evaluated? Five years after the launch, why are not all municipalities connected? Is there an agenda for networking of all municipalities on this platform?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u115	Mr President, Mrs Matz, my department is not involved in the e-birth project. The question you are asking falls within the competence of my colleague the Minister of Justice with regard to the legal aspects of the e-birth project. As for the technical aspects of this project, they fall within the competence of Minister De Croo, in his remit related to the digital agenda. In order to be complete, I should like to make it clear that since the entry into force of the Royal Decree of 5 December 2014 amending the Royal Decree of 3 April 1984 on the access of certain public authorities to the National Register of Natural Persons, as well as the maintenance and control of information, in order to regulate the procedure and procedures for checking the registration of the data contained in the civil register by the civil registry officer, it is the responsibility of the civil registry officer of the commune where the act was established to register in the National Register the data referred to in article 3, paragraph 1, of the Act of 8 August 1943 establishing a national register of natural persons. Finally, as you rightly mention in your question, article 1 of the Royal Decree of 25 March 2003 on identity cards effectively obliges every citizen to carry an identity card from the age of 15. That is the only answer I can give you. For the rest, I suggest that you address Minister Geens.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u116	Minister, isn't the fact that hospitals are almost confiscating the identity cards of women who give birth to register them a matter for you?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u117	No, from my colleague from Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u118	J'interrogerai allors M. None.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u119	Mr President, Minister, in the columns of La Libre of this 21 March, the investigating judge Michel Claise makes an alarming appeal concerning the problem of banking piracy, stating that "there is a major risk that in the years to come, a big blow will be made". This is a real danger when we know that the stolen money is very difficult to recover when it is transferred to offshore structures. Justice Claise points to the shortage of staff at the Federal Computer Crime Unit in order to effectively combat this form of crime. He refers to successful research but too long a time frame, worrying about the number of people whose mission is to combat this form of crime. I would like to take stock with you of the scale of the phenomenon and the answers you intend to give to it, on the understanding that in December 2011 I interviewed Justice Minister Turtelboom, and that she was able to detect that the means used were few, particularly in terms of staff and legal resources. Minister, can you tell me how many fraud cases on the Internet has the Federal Computer Crime Unit handled in the last five years? What are the figures for the results obtained? How many cases of bank piracy have been identified in the last five years? What amounts have been stolen? What sums have been recovered? What compensation have been awarded? How many people are currently working in the Federal Computer Crime Unit on these issues? What steps are you planning to take to address the shortage of staff in this body? What other specific human and material means will be used to combat this type of fraud? How does cooperation on this issue take place with other countries, particularly those from which computer scams originate? Are legislative initiatives to combat cybercrime being prepared? If so, when will you introduce them to us?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u120	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, I will make the same point as before: there are many figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u121	Minister, you can give them to me in writing. I have no problem with that. So we will not discuss content today. Give me your answer and, if necessary, I will ask you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u122	I prefer this way of working. I will reply to you within the time limit and we will be able to engage in a more political discussion later. I'll give you the numbers today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u123	Minister, this question has arisen following a publication in the newspaper De Tijd of the CEO of comic book publisher Ballon Media about his experiences with the Federal Computer Crime Unit and the local police. His company was the victim of cybercriminals. The whole incident raises a number of concerns. One of these is the handling and follow-up of complaints, particularly if the subject matter of the complaint is one of the subjects addressed to the federal police, such as cybercrime in this case. The complaint must be lodged with the local police. The proper handling of complaints requires a proper follow-up of the complaint so that the victim can always find out at what stage the processing and handling of his complaint is at, and whether the investigation can start quickly. This was certainly not the case in this case. In addition, the opinion document showed that the police officer had not been very helpful. However, it is crucial for the image of the police that citizens are treated correctly and properly. I'll come to my questions. How does the flow of complaints from the local police to the federal police go when it comes to the topic of the police? Who is the contact point for the victim, local or federal police in such cases? Who will provide the contacts with the public prosecutor in connection with the complaint? How does that information reach the victim? Finally, are there certain rules on the follow-up of complaints in the absence or illness of the staff member in question, or do each of the Commission lay down its own guidelines in such cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u124	Mr De Groote, I would like to make a preliminary remark. Mr Dragonetti's opinion does not show that there has been a personal contact with the Federal Computer Crime Unit. He was redirected to the eCops website. That should not have happened because there is currently no possibility for a victim of a crime in Belgium to lodge legal complaints on the Internet. The eCops website is only intended as a hotline, i.e. for reporting criminal offences that have been identified on the Internet but of which one is not a victim, and not for lodging complaints. Since Mr Dragonetti was the victim of scams, he was able to file a complaint with the first-line police, namely the local police. After all, the reception is one of the basic functions of the local police. I would also like to point out that a scam on the Internet is not cybercrime in the strict sense of the word. It is not because something has happened over the Internet that cybercrime is also involved. That is why this belongs to the powers of the federal police. Cybercrime concerns crimes as defined in the law on computer crime of 2002. We are talking about hacking, sabotage, computer fakeness, espionage and so on. If these crimes happen on the Internet, they fall under the heading of cybercrime. Scam is actually a classic crime where the crime scene is the Internet instead of the real world. That in itself is not cybercrime. In this way, I come to a specific answer to your questions. I don't explain the whole criminal procedure, because you know it better than I do. Each citizen's complaint shall be recorded in a report in accordance with the legal provisions in force in Belgium. Subject to a few exceptions, this report shall immediately be forwarded to the public prosecutor. The receiving magistrate decides to investigate or dismiss the case. When the magistrate chooses to conduct an investigation, he will include his assignment in a brief and send it for execution to a police department of his choice, the local police or the devolved unit of the federal judicial police of that arrondissement. The magistrate will be guided by the circular sent by the College of Attorneys-General from 2002 on the Ministerial Directive on the division of tasks, cooperation, coordination and integration between local and federal police on the tasks of the judicial police. For these types of files, scams, local police detectives are normally the investigator of the investigation. It may, if necessary, be assisted ad hoc by the Regional Computer Crime Unit for any technically complex research actions. So this is about online scams. Local police have to do the detectives, but when it encounters technical difficulties, it can call on the Federal Computer Crime Unit. In certain well-defined cases, the federal police will act directly on the complaint. This is the case, for example, for real cases of cybercrime such as hacking, espionage and so on. I cannot comment on the lead time of a file at the courthouse. It goes without saying that the speed of response in a file is the shared responsibility of police and magistrate and that matters can be greatly accelerated by direct telephone contact between magistrate and investigator. Secondly, the first point of contact of a crime victim is initially the reception of his local police area. As mentioned above, only in very specific cases will the federal police act directly on the complaint. In any case, after the complaint recording, the parquet is the point of contact for information on the further course of the investigation. For the state of play of the case, the victim may be kept informed by means of the person who has completed the form "disadvantaged' and who is addressed to the Public Prosecutor's Office. In addition, both local police and the Public Prosecutor's Office have a Victim Support Service which can assist and inform the victim. Thirdly, it is the department that is responsible for ensuring that the duties imposed by the magistrate are carried out. If a staff member is absent for a long period of time, another colleague will normally temporarily take over the follow-up of the current files and carry out the paperwork. The leading magistrate himself will follow the course of his file and may interpeal with the corps when he or she finds that an requested investigative act was not carried out within a reasonable or a set time limit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u125	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. It seems quite complete to me. The form for disadvantaged persons remains a small pain. It is true that it is possible to obtain information from the public prosecutor, but in practice this sometimes leads to difficulties. Of course, the parquet is not under your jurisdiction, but there is still a bit of work to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u126	Deputy Prime Minister, the KUL standard is the key to allocating the federal budget among the different police areas, but it is still based on figures from 2001. This distribution key leads to significant and unfavourable imbalances in large cities and, in particular, in the Brussels-Capital Region. These large cities are financed in relation to the investments they have made for their citizens. The KUL standard does not take into account key factors and current realities: the demographic boom and the boom in activities, including demonstrations, increasing urbanization, road traffic, night activities, and the proliferation of European summits. In particular, the police experienced difficulties during the period following the events in Verviers, with the searches that took place in Brussels. The police were unable to carry out their usual duties. The increase in the threat at level 3 also resulted in additional costs and had an impact on the budget of the areas. The Brussels North-West police area, in particular, experienced an increase of almost 200 000 euros because of the activities it continued during this particular period. The solidarity mechanism, which had been frozen since 2004, aggravated the situation of the allocations of Brussels areas, since they had to invest in their police forces in order to ensure their functioning, in solidarity with rural police areas. Do you intend to establish structural cooperation and to strengthen cooperation with local governments and mayors at this level? Brussels has very specific features which I will not go back to. How do you intend to improve the recognition of the capital? What measures could be put in place to ensure adequate funding for police forces? You have recently indicated that you are prepared to objective the funding of police areas on the basis of demographic criteria. Would there be any other criteria that could be considered? What measures could be taken in view of the specific nature of the capital of the Brussels Region, which constitutes an important additional burden?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u127	Mr.President, Mr.Minister, in 2010 we experienced quite dramatic events in the Brussels Region: riots and other tumults. On that occasion, the Conference of Brussels Mayors had decided to set up working groups on very specific topics. One related to police training, the other to their weapons, recruitment, reform of the KUL standard, the sixth reference you will hear about it. These working groups had returned their conclusions at the time. On February 25, you first came to meet the Conference of Mayors of the Brussels-Capital Region. On that occasion, you listened to the concerns that have just been raised by my colleague, Françoise Schepmans. In particular, you said on this occasion, and this is of particular interest to me, that you were planning on a change in the distribution of the federal police on Belgian territory by ensuring a greater presence in the major cities - obviously also in Brussels. We were on the 25th of February. We're a little over a month later. I'd like to know if your thinking has changed in the meantime. In what direction do you intend to go in relation to this analysis of the geographical distribution of the federal police force? Are concrete measures envisaged in the short term? Which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you that I listened well to you at our meeting on 25 February 2015. To your respective questions concerning the financing of the police areas of the Brussels-Capital Region, I would like to give you six points of answer. 1. Since you are a member of a party in this government, you are certainly aware that neither the financing of the police zones nor the updating of the KUL standard are included as a goal in the government agreement of 9 October. 2. As for the federal allocations to the police areas in 2014 and 2015, I can tell you that there will be no significant difference at the macro level. In principle, the police area of the Brussels-Capital Region will have overall in 2015, more or less 2.4 million more than in 2014. The 2% reduction that has been applied to some federal allocations to the police areas and the recovery of negative indexation will be largely offset by the payment of the 2009 and 2010 balances and the allocation for the encouragement of the recruitment policy for the Brussels area in the event of a renewal of these balances. 3. I have agreed to participate in a working group at the level of the police areas of the Brussels-Capital Region with the task of analysing the problems of the police areas facing an additional workload, following the specificity of Brussels as the capital of Europe. The main aim is to objectify applications. 4. As for the very specific problem of the Brussels Region and in particular the police areas, several measures have been taken to take them into account. Apart from the traditional basic funding of police areas, through the federal endowment system, the police areas of the Brussels Region were able to benefit from other additional measures. I am thinking in particular of the following allocations. In 2014, two allocations were granted to the Brussels-Capital Region for the benefit of the police areas, under the "Fund for certain expenses incurred, which are related to security arising from the organisation of the European Summits in Brussels as well as from the security and prevention expenditure in relation to the function of the national and international capital of Brussels", for amounts of 15 and 17.3 million euros respectively. Following the sixth state reform, the transfer of management powers from the European Summit Fund to the Brussels-Capital Region was accompanied by an increase in the budget of the Fund, from €22.3 million to €32.3 million in 2014. On the other hand, let me point out that, in addition to the traditional funding comparable to the other police areas and the endowments mentioned above, the police areas of the Brussels Region have received a specific share of the allocation intended to encourage the recruitment policy of 1.5 million for 2014. 5. You also refer to the federal police. Discussions on its organic framework are ongoing. The analysis of the geographical distribution of the federal police on the basis of the environmental factors of the different provinces and the Brussels-Capital Region and the workload of these entities in these different provinces and Regions, the mandate and organisation of this study are determined. The analysis itself, the content and the methodology are currently in a preparatory phase. So I can't comment on its outcome, but the study is about to start. 6. Security in general and the strengthening of the police remain priorities for our government, which I do not fail to defend with ardour. I can only welcome the fact that the federal government, as part of budgetary control 2015, has provided additional resources for police and security in general. Finally, we are finalizing the organic table. The goal is to transfer a large number of police officers from the federal level to deconcentrated levels. Before this decision is finally taken, I can assure you that Brussels will not be misdistributed. The federal police made me a proposal. Together with my colleague from Justice, Mr Geens, we must agree on this table before we can implement it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u129	Minister, at the end of your speech, I hear that the federal police have made a proposal to you. It is therefore concluded that it agrees with the principle of transferring the federal government to the areas and that there will be no hindrance to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u130	It's deconcentrated within the federal framework. This is no longer at the central level. We do not transfer to local areas but to the deconcentrated entities of the Federal Police.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u131	That makes sense. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u132	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, during the presentation of the policy briefs, policy briefs and budgets in November and December of this year, you stated, in particular, that you would examine in which areas the policies of large cities can still play a role and contribute to the improvement of living conditions in large cities, within federal jurisdiction. Urban policy is an essential element for some of the country's major cities and municipalities in Brussels. Minister, can you clarify your guidelines for the policy area of the big cities today, on the basis of the new political options as announced? Is there any consultation with the different regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u133	Mrs Schepmans, the implementation of the policy of the major cities must be examined with a view to an integral and integrated approach to safety in society. The policies of large cities can play an important role in preventing and managing insecurity and nuisances. An integrated vision must therefore enable this social mission to be carried out in the best possible way. There is obviously a need for consultation with the Regions. There is a need for synergy based on existing security and prevention structures. The policy can only be intensified on the basis of the method applied in the regions. The Regions also have a share of responsibility for the implementation of the policies of the major cities, hence the need to consult with them. The political weight of the major cities lies in the regions. We are only at the service of the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u134	Have there been any consultations since this new implementation of the policies of the major cities?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u135	We still need to start this process.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u136	Minister, I am echoed here by federal police officials, many of whom have been surprised to me that they have not perceived their annual baraemic advancement. The circular on measures taken to monitor federal personnel refers to linear savings on personnel credits and budgetary prudence. However, more than a net loss of income, staff members deplore the lack of communication. If the facts are correct and, as indicated by the trade unions, these baraemic advances are frozen during the budgetary monitoring imposed by circular, it is unfortunate that the staff members have not been kept informed. The situation highlights several questions: can you confirm the suspension of baraemic advancement? This blockage has not been discussed in a framework of social consultation and already resonates as a unilateral decision. Why has it not been discussed or at least clearly communicated? When will the staff concerned see this advance unblocked?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u137	Mrs Ben Hamou, the circular of 18 December 2014 containing measures for monitoring federal personnel also applies to the federal police and has the effect of freezing baraemic advancements. However, this circular provides for the possibility of obtaining a derogation from measures taken in the context of budgetary prudence. For example, I have submitted a reasoned request to the competent ministers, namely the ministers of the budget and the public service, on matters relating to related competences, including, inter alia, baraemic advancements. I have already received the favourable opinion of the Inspector General of Finance. As soon as the Ministers of Budget and Public Service have agreed, we will proceed to the baraemic advancements. With regard to communication within the Federal Police, the Staff Monitoring Circular was put on the agenda of the Senior Consultation Committee on 25 February 2015. I was there. The trade unions were informed about the scope of this circular and the general request for derogation concerning related competences, including, inter alia, baraemic advancements. At SCC 136 on March 25, 2015, a brief stocktaking was reported to the union. Internal information for staff is being prepared and will be disseminated in the coming days.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u138	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am glad that there has been a consultation on this. I simply regret the fact that the staff were not informed. That's why they contacted me. When will staff see this advance unlocked in the coming months? Do you have a specific time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u139	It will be faster, faster than in a few months. The Inspector of Finance gave a positive opinion. It is currently on the desk of my two colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u140	Mr President, Minister, among the various information that may have come to light in the press about claims by the private guarding sector, it is an interview in which you indicated your willingness to give security officers operating in hospital centres enhanced powers of restraint, which would include the use of handcuffs and/or the use of identity checks. You are aware that these skills are specific to the work of police officers. Expanding these possibilities of exercising restrictions on freedom of movement or giving identity control powers to third parties is a significant step towards the privatisation of public security. Minister, do you confirm that this is your intention? The press also gives you the desire to supervise this delegation of strict conditions of application. Can you specify the content? What are the other specific sectors or locations for which you plan to privatize public safety?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u141	Mrs Ben Hamou, the problem of violence in hospitals is complex and delicate. Cases of assault occur mainly in emergency services and psychiatric sections of hospitals. The approach to this problem has commonalities with medical treatment, patient rights, medical law and ethics. Because of the complexity of the causes of aggression, I would like to see possible solutions first addressed through a multidisciplinary approach. I gave the mission to my administration to propose a formula that would allow us to take the appropriate action with full knowledge, through an integrated approach. With regard to public safety, I can inform you that the debate on essential missions is still under discussion and that no final decision has yet been taken. This decision will also be considered in the evaluation of the law of 10 April 1990 regulating private and personal security.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u142	Thank you, Minister, for these answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u143	Debates of the European Parliament The next question by Mr Delannois is 3393. However, Mr Delannois is not present, has not indicated that he is attending another committee, nor has he asked for his question to be converted into a written question. I therefore make use of Rule 127 (10) of the Rules of Procedure and consider his question withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u144	Mr President, I know that we agreed earlier to debrief this Council. I will address only one aspect. Minister, at the plenary session on 19 March, following the attack at the Bardo National Museum in Tunis, I asked you about the national and European policy on combating terrorism and radicalism. In your reply, you referred me to the Committee on the Interior with regard to the European dimension. I would therefore like you to share with us the latest discussions you have had with your European counterparts. At the G11 meeting, you were asked to present the progress of the counter-propaganda project. What about it? Were any other topics discussed at the meeting? What were the conclusions of the Jal Council on 12 and 13 March? The discussions under the Latvian Presidency focused on the implementation of the measures contained in the recent declarations on the fight against terrorism following attacks in Europe. Four issues were at the centre of these discussions: strengthening the application of the Schengen framework and strengthening control at the external borders of the European Union; combating radicalisation on the Internet through the establishment of capacity to report illegal content, including the creation of a European reference unit; combating trafficking in firearms and the neutralisation of weapons; and increasing information exchange and operational cooperation. Have these meetings resulted in concrete decisions on the fight against terrorism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u145	Madam, on the conclusions of the JHA Council of March 12, I can provide you with the following information. As you yourself have pointed out, the Latvian Presidency wishes to discuss the following issues again, as it believes that these measures can be significantly advanced in the short term. Firstly, the use of the existing Schengen framework to strengthen and modernise control at the external borders of Europe. The Latvian Presidency urges the Commission to present common risk indicators by April at the latest. Secondly, the management of content with a terrorist or extremist vocation on the Internet by strengthening the Internet's capacity to referral. In this context, the Latvian Presidency stresses the need to draw up operating rules in close cooperation with the Member States. Thirdly, the strengthening of collaboration and the exchange of information in the fight against illegal trafficking in firearms and the priority management of the critical issue of dismantling and neutralization of firearms. The Latvian Presidency reiterates the call for the Commission to rapidly draw up binding rules for the neutralisation of firearms. Fourthly, the intensification of the exchange of information and the improvement of operational cooperation, inter alia via Europol and Eurojust. We have reached a compromise on the measures proposed by the Presidency. Concrete actions will be taken to achieve the following objectives together. Firstly, all persons and their documents will be systematically checked at Schengen border crossings on the basis of common risk indicators. The misuse of the Internet will have to be better addressed, among other things, by creating an EU Internet Reference Unit within Europol. At the same time, we are launching a bilateral technical working group between Belgium and the United Kingdom to further strengthen collaboration on information intercepted on the Internet. The first contacts were made. Thirdly, in the context of the problem of illegal trafficking in firearms, we are counting on the Commission's proposals. The operational approach will be optimised in collaboration with Europol. With regard to the exchange of information, it was decided that further efforts would be needed. Too few Member States make use of the possibilities offered by Europol. The Focal Point Travellers would thus be more successful through more active participation by the Member States. 80% of the information collected comes from four Member States, including Belgium. Next to the JHA Council, we also have the G11, the group of countries affected by foreign fighters. We introduced them to our counter-propaganda project. It has been very well accepted by the member countries. Nine countries have already requested the assistance of this Scan team to help them in their counter-propaganda. In Belgium, we have freed up funds to do so. At the next meeting with the federal level and the federated entities, I will present this Scan project. It must be implemented in collaboration with the Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u146	Thank you, Minister, for this information. You spoke of more systematic control at Schengen border crossings. When will it be implemented? Is it already operational? Otherwise, what is the deadline? The same question applies to the European unit that will work within Europol to detect infringements on the Internet. These are concrete measures, but there is no timetable. You say that we need to inform the federated entities about the counter-propaganda project, which is a good thing. Concrete actions are implemented but the question is: when?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u147	As I said, for the use of the Schengen framework, the Presidency urges the Commission to present risk indicators by the end of April. That is a concrete decision. By the end of April each Member State must present the common risk indicators. Then we'll see how to implement them. There are other things that are immediately being implemented, such as the initiatives requested by Europol. As regards the S4, the propaganda contract, I would first like to inform the Communities. Meetings are held on a monthly basis. At the next meeting, I will inform them because when we talk about preventive measures, I believe that this falls within the competence of the Communities. At the federal level, we play the role of presenting opportunities, giving opportunities that they may or may not take. It's their responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u148	Mr President, Minister, I would like to follow up on my written question on the implementation of the circular that organizes the research and prosecution policy on discrimination and hate crimes. The latter circular provides, inter alia, for local police chiefs to appoint a reference police officer with regard to discrimination and hate crimes. Despite the fact that the corps chiefs were invited by mail and circular to implement this recommendation in April 2014, the figures in your written response appear to show that it is not being respected in a majority of the Kingdom's police areas. Indeed, if I read correctly, 44 police zones have appointed a contact person, 11 police zones have appointed two contact persons and one police zone has appointed three contact persons. Thus, if I calculate correctly, 140 out of 195 police areas have not appointed a contact person for these hate crimes, whether homophobic or racist, to cite two examples. Minister, in your response, you indicate that 44 zones have designated their reference public servant, but in the table inserted in the response, there are 54 zones. What is the exact figure? Can you tell me if the reliability of the data collected is proven? What political reading do you make of these statistics which at least attest to the difficult implementation of the circular in the police areas? Is it not worrying that discrimination is not the subject of a more structured and systematic policy of listening and prosecution? Can the decrease in the number of recorded incidents not be explained more by the fact that the phenomenon is not taken into account at the local level than by a real decrease in the incidence of discrimination? What initiatives will be taken with respect to areas that have not yet designated their reference officer to improve the consideration of this type of incident? Should they not be re-aware of this phenomenon or should specific measures be put in place to require them to follow up on such facts and to provide sufficient resources for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u149	Mr Gilkinet, at the time of answering your question No. 37, the Federal Police Diversity Service was aware of 66 police areas that had designated one or more reference persons. Fifty-four police zones had designated one person. Eleven had designated two people. One area had designated three people. There was a typing error in the table attached to the response. This meant 54 areas, not 44. As for the reliability of the data collected, the Diversity Department of the Federal Police can only guarantee the figure for the units of the Federal Police, namely 38 reference persons. The Service is aware of 68 police areas that have designated one or more reference officers. This listing, continuously updated, is based on the responses given by the police areas, following the letter sent in April 2014 by my predecessor to the local police chiefs of corps. It is also based on the contacts that the Diversity Service has with the local police during meetings of the Community of Practice Diversity or during trainings as well as on the consultation of the deconcentrated coordination and support directorates. Your second question does not fall within my jurisdiction but rather within the purview of the Minister of Justice. However, I can assure you that this point is addressed in a structured and systematic way in the training of police reference persons. These training courses are organized by the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities in the various districts. The reference magistrates are present to optimize their collaboration with the police. Magistrates answer questions from police officers and focus on the correct qualifications of the facts and the essential elements to emerge from the minutes in the framework of Circular 13/2013. As far as your third question is concerned, in terms of security figures and crime, there is no reason to draw too hasty conclusions. In any case, police officers are bound by a legal obligation to draw up a report when they find an offence. They are obliged to act on complaints and are formed in this direction. There is therefore no reason to suspect that this is the case vis-à-vis the local police. While the figures for racist offences have actually decreased, those for homophobic offences, for example, have increased. The increase in the registration of homophobic facts can also be explained by recent awareness-raising campaigns on the subject. For the subjects covered by Circular 13/2013, files may also be submitted at the civil level to the Inter-federal Centre for Equal Opportunities. This may, in particular, explain a possible decrease in criminal charges. In response to your fourth question, I can reply that Circular 13/2013 does not provide for a sanction in the event of the non-appointment of a reference official. Nevertheless, within the police, various actions are planned within the framework of the International Day to Combat Homophobia on 17 May, the Diversity Department of the Federal Police will carry out an awareness campaign on Circular 13/2013 in general. A seminar will be organized. Posters will be produced and a new Info for all police officers will be written. The Diversity Service thus hopes to reach as many police officers as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u150	Minister, thank you for your answer. Unfortunately, she does not satisfy me more than the written answer to my written question. Either there is a problem with statistics, which are not an end in itself but a means of evaluating public policies, or there is a lack of interest and investment on the part of police areas in relation to these issues, which are fundamental if one wants a police force that, beyond ensuring security, works together. Of course, there is autonomy of the police zones, but to issue a circular that precedes you without ensuring that it will be implemented at its limits. It is the federal authority that must play a role in driving and increasing the attention of the police areas to these facts, which are quite serious. I would ask you to pay particular attention to this, possibly by re-issueing a new circular recalling the previous circular and adding forms of sanction, encouragement for police areas that would not play the game. It is useful for the police councils to question their advice on the subject, as it is an important dimension of the work of the community police. Thank you for paying attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u151	Debates of the European Parliament 3441 by Mrs Karin Temmerman has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u152	Mr.President, Minister, on March 18, 2015, a member of the Brussels regional government referred to possible situations of radicalisation within public companies. In view of the worrying public comments made by a minister responsible for regional public enterprises, I would like to ask you the following questions. Have any contacts already been made between the federal services and the Brussels radicalism, if any, but also with those of the other federated entities in order to exchange the necessary information on Belgian territory? Has an analysis of these situations been carried out by the federal services in charge of combating radicalism? Do these services confirm the statements made by the regional minister? Is there specific monitoring and screening, as is the case in the Department of National Defence? If so, how many cases of radicalisation have been registered in Belgian, federal or regional public enterprises in the last six months?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u153	Mr. Pivin, to my knowledge, there are many contacts between all political levels and federal authorities in the area of radicalisation. Federal authorities may transfer information on radicalization to all governments upon request or automatically. I do not know whether, in this specific case, a contact is organised, but in so far as it is a matter of state security, you must address your question to the Minister of Justice, who is competent in this matter. As far as your second question is concerned, a specific analysis on radicalism in Belgian public enterprises has not yet been made and we have no confirmation of the existence of radicalisation facts. In any case, radicalization is followed by the police and intelligence services, which meet regularly at meetings of local task forces where cases requiring further follow-up are discussed in order to take the necessary action. Finally, there is no specific monitoring and screening of radicalisation within public enterprises.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u154	Mr President, I have no comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u155	Minister, the issue of the division of labour in police work is, as you know, very important, since it makes it possible to optimize the effectiveness of police services. A first work was carried out under the previous legislature in the context of the identification of the tasks currently being carried out by police officers, which could be carried out by other public security actors. The government agreement also allows for measures to be taken to encourage a greater concentration of the police on its priority tasks. A working group has been set up at your initiative to identify specific mission proposals that should remain within the strict jurisdiction of the police. It was announced that this spring the conclusions of this ad hoc group would be communicated to the government. Here we go. Can you then tell us what the conclusions of the working group are? In this case, what is the list of specific tasks? Finally, within what time frame will the initiatives be taken to develop the new spheres of competence allowing police officers to focus on their basic tasks of security, protection and investigative work?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u156	Mr Pivin, you are right, the debate on the key tasks of police officers has been under way for about ten years. The Government has decided to close this debate and to take decisions. That is why I have set up a working group that has submitted its report. Now starts a round of consultations with a number of stakeholders in the field. Who is involved in the consultations? First, the Federal Police, the Standing Committee of the Local Police, the social partners, the three associations of cities and municipalities and my colleague from the Justice Department. Indeed, there is a great deal of connection between the duties of police officers and judicial proceedings. The report of the working group contains two parts. The first one contains all the tasks that can be quickly decided to define as key tasks or not. The second part contains a list of tasks for which procedures should be improved in order to save money or to better define the tasks of police officers. As I have always said, my ambition is to present to the government, before the summer, the conclusions of the working group and the outcome of the consultations with the various stakeholders I have just named. At present, we fully respect this timing. But before I publish the report and start the debate, I prefer to close the consultations. In this report, there is no taboo subject. It describes everything that is technically possible. But between the technical point of view and the reality, there is a difference. Consultations have already taken place with the Federal Police. Once the round of consultations has been completed, we can fully inform the Committee on the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u157	It's a thorough methodology. I hope that it will guarantee the success of the operation. I'll make sure I get back to you before the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u158	Question No 3450 by Mr Philippe Pivin is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u159	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to begin by apologizing for the error of referral that I raised; at the outset, I asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs my question. I am not going to redefine the well-known problem of the many European parties fighting alongside what I call not the Daesh, but the Nazis. That is the opposite phenomenon I would like to mention. Indeed, it seems that more and more Westerners are volunteering to join the army of the People's Protection Unit (YPG), an armed wing of the Kurdish Democratic Union Party. Some already have military experience. According to some sources and testimonies, in the armed opposition to the Nazi Islamists people are also responsible for recruiting in our Western countries. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, can we count the number of these Western fighters? Are Belgians involved? To what extent is this army structured and developed? On this subject, I have already had an element of reply, since we received the Kurdish representatives in the Committee on External Relations just a few days ago. What preventive measures have been put in place in Belgium for those who are trying to join both Kurdish and jihadist fighters, provided that preventive measures are required for those who want to join the Kurds? For the Belgian parties to support the resistance against the Nazi Islamists, is there a framework for their return to Belgium, as long as there are? Finally, regarding the Belgian parties to join the Nazi Islamists, is there any change in the number of fighters, especially as a result of your action in recent weeks and months?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u160	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, a number of cases have been relayed by the press from a number of Western countries, particularly European ones. While some difficultly verifiable sources refer to the presence, alongside the Kurdish forces of the PYD, of dozens of Western fighters, no reliable figures exist, a fortiori due to the limited access to reliable information from the combat zones concerned. You asked me if any Belgians were involved. Isolated cases have been reported, notably by the Belgian press. However, the phenomenon appears to remain marginal. As to whether this army is structured and developed, at this stage, any departure initiatives to combat zones seem to be taken primarily on an individual basis. As the initial initiatives are limited in number, they do not appear to require specific approaches at this stage. Western fighters returning to Europe offer, in any case, very few points of comparison with the potential threats embodied by foreign fighters driven by the ideology of a global jihad, such as those fighting alongside the Islamic State. As regards the evolution of the number of Belgians leaving for the Islamic State, there is always a steady flow in departures, i.e. from two to five per week. This is not negligible, but it remains constant.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u161	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for these answers. I'm just like you worried about the continuity of departures to Daesh. As for the anti-Islamic fighters, I would rather encourage them, but I wanted to know if you had any information about them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u162	The minister has to leave. Mrs Matz, I understood that the minister did not have sufficient information to give a complete answer to your question No. 3504. That is why I now close this meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-01-54-commissie-ic141x.u163	I'm not sure it's not complete...
