ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u1	Deputy Prime Minister, we have talked a lot about raising the level of risk to 3. We have talked a lot about the protection of a number of extremely fundamental sites. The measures taken with regard to police and law enforcement officers were indispensable and I welcome them. I will focus on a particular sector that I have experienced in a previous life and which is also close to my heart to be strategic and extremely important: nuclear power plants and critical infrastructure. My question is about energy-critical infrastructure. With regard to nuclear power plants, the Royal Decree of 17 October 2011 provides for all measures relating to the physical protection of nuclear power plants. Has any thought been given to this matter? In France, in particular, nuclear power plants are referred to as highly sensitive defence zones and gendarmes are allowed to use armed force there. With regard to other critical infrastructure, such as the refinery sector in Antwerp or all of our power generation facilities or all of our low-voltage, high-voltage, distribution or gas pipeline cables, it would be useful to increase protection based on the increased threat analysis. Minister, is the physical protection of nuclear installations and critical infrastructure sufficient in Belgium in view of the risks and the increase in threat analysis? Have the operators of nuclear facilities taken any further action following the crossing at Alert Level 3? In the context of the call for the army to ensure the security of sensitive sites, is the Government considering using it to provide physical protection for nuclear installations? Has the government ever used the help of the army to protect critical infrastructure? If not, is he considering using it, as he could do for nuclear facilities? Have you worked with the operators of these facilities on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u2	Mr President, Mr Wathelet, thank you for this question. The security of nuclear sites is assessed and, if necessary, staggered according to security threats and risks. In particular, AFCN has regular contacts with nuclear operators. Currently, on the basis of an OCAM investigation, there is no evidence of a specific terrorist threat to nuclear sites in Belgium. Due to level 3 of general threat, there is increased vigilance of nuclear facilities, but there are currently no military personnel deployed to protect nuclear sites or other critical infrastructure. Monitoring, if necessary, of threatened points is currently being carried out by the police. The army is deployed on the most threatened points. In this way, police personnel are released so that the police can focus on the essential tasks that only the police can perform or for which they are most capable. When the level of threat is 3, there will never be any military at strategic facility sites, such as those in the energy sector. Military personnel are deployed to static positions, such as in front of buildings, etc. A "static" protection is never suitable for this type of installation. However, as military personnel are employed for "static" tasks, police officers are released for other tasks, such as the protection of nuclear installations or other energy production facilities. The implementation of surveillance operations is therefore also part of the debate on the key tasks of the police. The outcome of this debate is expected in spring 2015. The Government and the services concerned are closely monitoring the situation and, if necessary, additional security measures will be taken in consultation with the local authorities to provide them with adequate additional protection. I repeat that for facilities as strategic as nuclear facilities, police should be used, not defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u3	I would like to thank the minister for his clear and forward-thinking response. I would note the need to systematically inform operators of these various facilities, which may be different: some are more linked to the public sector, others are linked to the private sector. There is a need for transparency with the operators. I am pleased that special attention is being paid to these facilities, and I am counting on the minister to maintain his benevolence for these facilities, because they are overly strategic and so important!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u4	Mr President, Minister, the sale of bulletproof vests is booming, so we read and see everywhere. According to figures, it would be a fivefold increase in sales. A salesman states that not only police forces, but also individual agents who don't get bulletproof vests, buy there. Police officers are responsible for, among other things, traffic orders, law enforcement and community services. However, many of them do not get a gun or a bulletproof vest. The CIPAL police union has called on all police officers to refuse all public appearances, as long as they were not allowed to wear a gun or a bulletproof vest. According to CIPAL, the agents should also be trained to use a firearm. I have a few specific questions, Minister. How many police officers are in the police force today? Do you think there's a need to provide bulletproof vests for the agents everywhere? Should certain police areas, for example faced with higher levels of threat, provide better protection for the entire corps? If you have any plans, have you already calculated them? What costs would this possibly entail?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u5	Mr President, Mr Demon, your first question is a question of precise figures, and I can answer you that at the beginning of this year there were 1 719 police officers, including 1 689 local police officers and 30 federal police officers. The law does not provide for a bulletproof vest for the personal equipment package of agents. However, at the level of the federal police, we have made an exception, due to the threat level 3, for 16 agents employed at Zaventem airport. So 16 out of 30 federal police officers got a bulletproof vest. You then ask whether or not it is necessary to provide all agents with a bulletproof vest, but I cannot answer that question with a yes or no. It depends on their specific tasks. You know that agents are being deployed for a very diverse range of tasks. That question is linked to the question of arming police officers, as CIPAL also asks. I'm absolutely prepared to talk about that. However, we are now at threat level 3 and you must understand that this is a very exceptional situation. When we talk about arms and security, I think we should always make up for that distinction in those talks. Officers who go out on the street today, under threat level 3, have always been escorted. You used to have two cops together sometimes, now that's a cop with an inspector, and the last one is armed. With regard to the protection of police personnel, I refer to the Royal Decree of June 2007 on the armament of the integrated police. It is the local chiefs who are responsible for the safety of their personnel in carrying out the police duties. Whether or not to wear bulletproof vests is the responsibility of the local chief of police. Most police commissaries, as provided for by law, have a number of bulletproof vests: they are part of the so-called collective equipment. There are individual vests and a number of vests are also provided as collective equipment. These may be carried by agents when they are entrusted with an assignment. You also know that police officers are generally given the directive not to wear uniforms in commuting. After Verviers, we all know that police officers are generally a target. We have given the directive not to do commuting in uniform. When police officers have to do their work in uniform, bullet-proof vests are available in every commissioner and always do so together with an inspector. Your fourth question concerns the actual cost, and I can answer that as well. The federal police have made a purchase worth 355,4 euros, excluding VAT. That is for the basic model, because there are also differences. The basic model costs 355.4 euros. Multiply this by 1 689 agents, then you get to 600 270 euros. In addition, 21 % VAT, or a cost of 726 326 euros. I am well aware of the problem, but giving weapons to people who have not been trained for it, I suspect that no one in this hemisphere will make a plea for it. I hope threat level 3 can be kept shorter than the time it takes to train cops to be able to carry a weapon. The problem is therefore slightly more complex and linked to threat level 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u6	May I assume, then, that once the storm is down, you will consider what is possible in the area of bulletproof vests for these people, and will take additional measures on this matter and, if necessary, draw up laws? [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u7	A few weeks ago, I asked you a question about the number of illegal immigrants in the port of Zeebrugge. You gave me the amazing answer that the number was falling. There has been a controversy about this: it was impossible for the number of illegal immigrants to have fallen. The shipping police also made their voices heard from them. She has a scanner, with which she does very good work in the harbor, but she mainly asks for dogs. With a dog, the police can detect illegals or drugs much more efficiently. It also calls for the funds made available to the port of Ostend, but no longer being used because of no traffic, to be allocated to Zeebrugge. Do you intend to respond to the shipping police's request to deploy more trained detective dogs? Is it possible to allocate the funds made available to the port of Ostend to Zeebrugge?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u8	Two dog guides and two migration control dogs are currently operationally deployed with the maritime police on the coast. A third migration control dog is currently being trained and can be operationally deployed from mid-2015 onwards. It is true that these are very efficient means in the fight against illegal migration. Within the new organic table of the shipping police a third dog guide with migration control dog on the coast was registered. In the foreseeable future, the additional capacity will be made available in conjunction with the use of all other technical means of detection by the shipping police, in which, moreover, investments are made on a permanent basis. In my view, this has met the specific demand of the shipping police. The port of Ostend is still an official Schengen border post. All the technical means of border control of the Ostend shipping police are permanently available to the integrated police and its partners. The shipping police of Ostend provides its expertise, knowledge and resources as a specialised support service to the federal police to all entities of the police wishing to rely on them, including Jabbeke's Federal Road Police. The live scanner for fingerprinting is already in Zeebrugge's shipping police. That too is a Schengen crossing point. It is not very easy to move such a device to Jabbeke. This requires expensive technical intervention. I understand that the road police, as illegals and smugglers are found along the E40, also want to have such a device, because it would make it unnecessary to move to another unit for fingerprinting and thus save a huge amount of time. But such a device is not quickly moved to another location. We must therefore consider whether we can incorporate this into an investment programme. After all, I am aware of the compelling problem of the illegals in Jabbeke and along the E40.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed and, above all, understanding reply. The coastal corps are doing everything possible with man and power to apprehend smugglers on the one hand and, on the other hand, to receive the victims of trafficking in human beings in a humane manner, for which it provides proper procedures. The third dog will therefore be a very grateful tool for them to work on. I fully agree with your view that resources should be shared. Minister, we will certainly convey your message to the corps on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u10	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Temmerman's 1648 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u11	Mr President, Minister, I shall begin with an example, and then go more concretely and more generally. At the station in Bruges there was an incident a while ago in which two boys were threatened by a man with a knife. After a two-hour arrest, the man was released. I went into this a little bit and came up rather quickly that at that time there was no exchange of information between the railway police services and the local police. That was very formally reported to me by the Chief Constable. Is there a structural exchange of information between the railway police services and the local police areas on the facts that have taken place in the police area? I suppose there is a system, but it is certainly not waterproof. How can we really improve the exchange of information between the railway police and the local areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u12	Mr President, Mr Demon, we are familiar with the fact that you described the situation in Bruges, in which a person with a knife threatened young people. I can tell you what the arrangements are and what they should be like in that case. When such facts occur, the CIC, the communication and information centre, both the local police and the federal police, in this case the railway police, warns abbreviated SPC. As you know, Bruges is one of the ten stations where the railway police have to provide reinforced support. So a call comes in to the CIC and goes to the local police and to the railroad police. Then it is the shift coordinators in the field who make the necessary arrangements between the two services. I cannot comment on this specific fact, but I can give the protocol. Since 1 September 2003, there has been a protocol agreement between the Bruges railway police and the Bruges local police zone. This agreement provides, inter alia, for the exchange of information among themselves. For example, the Bruges railway police sends daily an activity report to the police department concerned and to the district information crossroads, the AIK. There is also weekly consultation between the DirCo West Flanders and the various field units of the federal police, including the SPC. Since the beginning of this year, the SPC has made full use of the ISLP IT tool to record its records. The AIK has access to this and thus has a real-time view of all the determinations of the SPC Bruges. In this respect, therefore, a number of things were foreseen, but the question is how things are going in practice. Both the local police and the SPC can be captured to see if the information exchange is done in the manner intended. In addition to the planned exchange of information as just described, the railway police have taken a number of initiatives to make themselves even more known in the different police zones and to raise awareness of the dangers associated with action on the railway domain. The railway police also offer information sessions at the police areas that ask for them. There's no way the railroad police can delineate her area of work. We don't think that's gonna happen either. It offers information and training sessions to local police to identify the specific problems and issues to be prepared for when operating in the vicinity of stations. Since two years, the railway police also have a knowledge and information centre, in particular Centrex Rail, consisting of some experienced experts. Technical or legal questions from the police zones relating to railway matter are answered by this service, in cooperation with other federal police services. It is true that the exchange of information between the various actors is important and necessary and remains necessary for the optimum functioning of our police services. I am therefore pleased that you have indicated such matters to me. In this way we can find out where there might have been a bad exchange or what went wrong. The agreement actually provides for everything, as well as the offer from the railway police to the local zones. Also in Bruges have been information sessions. The police were alerted to certain points of interest in the station. The hardware is there, the software is in the minds of the local people.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u13	Minister, you have convinced me that the agreements are there. When I hear the Chief Constable of our city centre, it's not an isolated fact. In response to this question, perhaps you can remind people in the field of this matter in a very specific way. In this case, two weeks after a deadly stabbing on the market, it is not understandable that such a fact is happening again. I would be pleased if you could repeat this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u14	Mr. Minister, after the tifo-rel during the Standard-Anderlecht match, the Football Cell decided to identify and banish anyone who was behind or right next to the banner at the time of the facts. As we have heard from the newspapers, it is estimated that there are 3 000 fans. The identification, a huzarenwerk, was done by the three parties: the club, the police and the Interior. Some people were wondering why the police didn't file a police report on the scene. The Football League will now change its rules so that such banners will be banned in the future. I would like to ask you a few specific questions about this. What preventive measures can be taken to avoid such incidents? Why didn't the match lead to fiscalisation? Will the Football League also be addressed by you on its responsibility for such incidents? Have any concrete steps been taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u15	Mr Minister, Mr Demon has just asked a question about this tifo, and I understand that Mr Vermeulen also asked a question about it two weeks ago. So I will not repeat myself. For us, too, this tifo was, of course, completely unacceptable. He was distasteful and crossed a certain line. Two weeks ago, you answered our original question, namely what rules were violated and what penalties were possible. You then referred to Article 23 of the football law, which provides that anyone who incites hatred or anger may face multiple punishments. My question today is, above all, whether you agree that the main aim should be to punish the real people responsible for this tifo and not the thousands of people who were under the banner and who were probably put on the wrong foot like the club itself or who did not know what would be on the banner. Do you share the view that thousands of people cannot be allowed to be banned from the stadium? Perhaps you can also answer Mr Vermeulen's question, which could not be answered 14 days ago, namely whether those responsible have already been identified or detected. Do you know who cooperated yet? Were the makers of this tifo also present in the stadium? Apparently, that's one of the conditions for being punished. In short, what is the state of play? Apparently, the criminal law is supposed to apply here. Will it be punished on the basis of the football law or has the court now taken the matter into consideration? There was a month for that. I don't know if you have any more information on that and if the court has done anything yet? Can you tell us how many supporters have been punished in recent years for bringing in or unfolding a banner or tipofo inciting hatred or anger?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u16	Mr President, with regard to the interplay or the verbalisation of the stadium itself, the policemen in the stadium judge. Will there be an intervention, will there be an interview or will there be a report? Is it appropriate, or is it even more appropriate, to stir up the moods? This is something that belongs to the professionalism of the policemen themselves. This is called the opportunity principle: the police officer judges whether a violation of the football law is being committed and whether or not the case should be interplayed or not made worse. There is no legal obligation to act at that time. I.D.'s in progress in the Liege Police Zone. It is a long and precise work that is carried out on the basis of video performances of the stadium. Those identifications shall be followed by minutes. When these records are delivered to the Football Cell, an administrative procedure is initiated by the Football Cell services. During that procedure, any supporter against whom the proceedings were initiated may make his defences available in writing and/or orally. At the end of the individual examination of each file, only the persons against whom the facts were considered to have been proven may be sentenced to a penalty as provided for in the football law. This is either an administrative fine of between EUR 250 and 5 000 and/or a stadium ban of three months to five years. An administrative decision shall be taken within six months of the event. So we have six months to go through the procedure. The supporter may make any clarifications he wishes in his defences. The administrative decision, taken in accordance with the rights of the defence, will take into account the elements mentioned in the file. Since the creation of the Football Cell, no administrative decision has been taken imposing an administrative fine of EUR 5 000 and a five-year ban on stadiums. The prosecutions will be initiated on the basis of Article 23 which provides for a penalty against one or more persons who alone or in group in the stadium incite beatings and injuries, hatred or anger towards one or more persons. It is therefore not possible to prosecute the persons who made the banner without being present at the stadium on the day of the game. This is not possible under football law. In addition, many supporters have participated in unrolling the banner without knowing its contents. In this case, I assume it will be difficult to show that those people have provoked hatred or anger. The 90% that it means well should not be punished for the creators or initiators of this banner. Preventive measures can be taken by the football world. In this case, it is up to the club to take action, taking into account its own rules. Standard has also done so or has announced it. Standard has already taken sanctions by abolishing the various advantages that support groups can enjoy for the relevant support group Ultras Inferno. They will also be prohibited from attending the movements. As regards the liability of the Royal Football Association, it is not up to the Minister of Security to decide on this matter. Questions about possible legal procedures should be put to my colleague, None. I am solely responsible for the football law and its application.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u17	Minister, you say that the agents on the ground must judge whether or not to act. May I infer from that that the officers have decided not to do this? So that's what happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u18	Minister, it is clear to us that we need to focus on the creators of this banner and not on those who happened to be under it. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u19	Mrs. Matz is not here at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u20	Minister, the use of military personnel is not good for everyone, and the army in the street scene seems to make some citizens a little anxious. We also received complaints from some self-employed people from the station district and the Jewish neighborhood in Antwerp, that the presence of soldiers for their business would drive customers away. There is therefore a call for the military to be withdrawn from the streets as soon as possible. Our group can certainly live with the temporary deployment of military forces as a solution at threat level 3. As a possible solution it was suggested to have the military patrolling in police uniforms. Certain special police units are already difficult to identify by the citizens, because of their specific equipment. On the other hand, a police uniform allows people to clearly recognise a police officer and to derive prerogatives from his or her duties. Moreover, wearing a police uniform is protected. Minister, what is your position as Minister of the Interior? Minister Reynders left a balloon on this subject, on which the trade union VSOA reacted directly with the announcement to oppose it. On the contrary, the trade union asked for more resources and policemen to be able to carry out the tasks themselves. Have you yourself been victorious for the idea of having military personnel patrol in police uniforms, if that is legally possible, or do you think it is advisable that there is still a clear distinction between the police and the military in the street?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u21	Mrs Gabriels, the proposal put forward by Minister Reynders was more extensive. His plea is actually that, in the case of the Defense Department, the right name escapes me now, to create custom uniforms, not necessarily police uniforms. You could, in a manner of speaking, compare that corps with the Military Police here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u22	And the members of that corps would be deployed in specific places?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u23	That's right. I'm not in favour of giving police uniforms to military personnel. In the event of a disaster, for example in the event of a dike breach, soldiers sometimes strengthen the fire department or civil security, but they do not wear a firefighter's uniform or a civil security uniform. So I am absolutely not in favour of that. However, a department with its own uniform can be set up at the Department of Defense. In my opinion, this can be discussed. Moreover, as you yourself said, the military involved are assigned very specific tasks, which are at the same time very limited. Police inspectors have more powers. We can use them then. To respond specifically to your question, I am not in favour of putting soldiers in a police uniform, but we can talk about the creation of an adapted unit in the Defense Department. That proposal is open for debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u24	Minister, that was very clear. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u25	Mr President, please excuse me, several committees dealing with several issues are held in several places at the same time. Mr Minister, following the anti-terrorist operation which was carried out, notably in Verviers on 15 January, the local authorities sent a letter to the federal government, the Walloon Region government and the Wallonia-Brussels federation in order to ask for their support in the fight against radicalism. The City states that it is aware that its police capabilities, as well as its preventive and awareness-raising capacity, are insufficient and need to be strengthened. The mayor of the municipality of Woluwé-Saint-Pierre also considers that, in the context of the fight against terrorism, the workload for the local police is untenable in a municipality like his. Since then, other mayors have expressed themselves in this direction. These interventions show the concern of the local authorities, who feel poor and insufficiently equipped to carry out an effective policy against radicalism. It is through comprehensive action at all levels of power, combining prevention and law enforcement, that we will be able to pursue an effective policy in this area. Therefore, my questions are as follows. To what extent does the federal authority support local authorities in the fight against radicalism and terrorism? How can you respond to requests for support from these local authorities? How to link actions at the local level with those at the federal level? The crossing at alert level 3 involves many security measures that have a cost to local authorities. I am thinking in particular of the larger number of police officers in the field, and the wearing of bulletproof vests. Does the federal state provide financial support to local authorities to meet these additional costs?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u26	Mrs Matz, this is the application on the ground of the Radicalism Plan, the famous R Plan, drawn up by the Minister whom you are particularly familiar with. At the operational level, the plan provides for the federal level to participate in the various local task forces, where local police are represented. With some exceptions, local police receive all information about potentially dangerous individuals within their jurisdiction. Exceptions are, for example, judicial embargoes. If an investigation is on its way, you know what I mean. I learned that the different local task forces sometimes work differently. I am told that, in some areas, it is very open: we receive a lot of information; in other places, on the other hand, it is more difficult. Assessments of the situation vary: some say on the one hand that everything is fine, on the other much less. I'm looking at how to look at this. That's for the operational level. At the prevention level, regular contacts are held with the local administrative authorities most concerned. In these contacts, OCAM suggests, among other things, the administrative measures applicable at local level. This is how the R Plan provides for today.Let us note, however, that one of the twelve measures taken by the government on 16 January concerns precisely the updating of the R Plan in preparation. A key element of this reform will be strengthening the integrated approach at the local level, with more balanced collaboration between local and central services. What does that mean? Too much weight now weighs on the local level. With the circular being drafted and the updating of the R plan, the balance between local and federal responsibilities will be restored. We are currently working with local levels to improve this balance. Secondly, we believe that it is at the level of the local task force that this articulation must be carried out. It is the ideal meeting point between the local and the federal services for the exchange of information and proposals for measures. Finally, the support of the military is financially borne by the interior. This is aid to the areas, and I thank my Defence colleague for that. We will see, at the forthcoming budgetary control, what margins could possibly be allocated to security aspects. This is one of the topics that will be discussed during the budgetary control in March.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u27	Minister, thank you. You see that your predecessor has not done nothing but bad things. I would just like to point out something that has not yet been reported. I think that, within the framework of prevention and security contracts – this is the generic term, even if they are no longer called – particular means had been found, in particular to combat radicalism in the cities that had the security contract. Of course, coordination is important. You've pointed it out, it's important to want to focus it on strengthening. Some communes, as you said, have the impression of being sufficiently provided with information and others do not. They do not always provide all the information either. However, the call for relief also concerns financial resources. The support of the military is one thing, but there are still resources for the local police. I hear you're going to make it a point of budgetary control. I'm glad to hear that, since it's at this level that the pack hurts. We will be attentive to this essential aspect for the correct application of the fight against radicalism at all levels of power.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u28	Mr President, Minister, Mr Demon also just had a question about the aid agents. My questions may overlap slightly with that. In recent weeks, additional security measures have been taken in response to the increased terrorist threat to police officers. Among other things, they received permission from a number of police chiefs to temporarily take home their service weapon. That does not seem to me to be the best measure, because the risk at home may be too great. I think it would be better to oblige them not to come to work in uniform, as we have done in our area. That seems more obvious to me than sending everyone with their guns home. Once again, it is a good thing that this is done under the permission of the Chief Constable and that they bear the responsibility for it. Another measure, which is now also being taken for auxiliary agents, is that they have to go on the job with two, i.e. a cop and an inspector, so that the inspector is armed. Police officers are indeed not police officers; they have limited competence and have limited training. We believe that it is not the intention to arm all these people because they have not received training to do so. I therefore fully agree with what you have just said in that regard. My question is will you take any more measures to respond to the fear of some police officers? The paramedics are asking for extra armament. I repeat, we are not in favour of this. Are there gonna be any extra round letters? Or are you sticking to the measures that have already been taken? Do you see any other measures specifically to protect police officers? You've already said you're thinking about the bulletproof vests.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u29	Mr President, Minister, the fight is not new. A few years ago, this debate on the arming of police officers was already on the table. Indeed, in 2010, SLFP Police had requested from the then Minister of the Interior, Annemie Turtelboom, that police officers could be armed, as well as police inspectors and commissioners, in view of the almost identical risks they face in the performance of their duties. Police officers only possess a pair of handcuffs and a small tear gas bomb. At the time, the Standing Committee of the Local Police (CPPL) considered that the use of a weapon required technical, psychological and legal training, which was quite logical and that these justifications were not called into question. However, training can be ordered. The aim of this weaponry is the security of the police officer and obviously involves training in the handling of firearms. It is not a question of a change of status or a salary increase, but simply of recognition of the duties performed by these officers and of their necessary security, in the same way as the inspectors and police commissioners. The demands for the arming of police officers are therefore not new, but simply revived by the latest events, since the police forces are directly targeted and threatened by terrorist networks. Moreover, it appears that, since the attacks and threats to our police services, certain police areas have taken the decision to confine their police officers within the police stations. Minister, given the current situation, the level of alert in our country and the specific threats to our police services, what do you have to do with the idea that these police officers can use a weapon, like any other inspector and commissioner? At present, they are not allowed to do so and therefore have no defence in case of an attack. Do you intend to legislate on this issue? I repeat that we consider the need for training and not a willingness to arm everything tomorrow that wishes to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u30	Mr President, I believe that most of the answers have already been given to Mr Demon's question. Mrs Gabriels, I also said earlier that the measure whereby people do not work in uniform is the most appropriate. I do understand some territorially very extensive areas with rather few police stations, where, for example, a district police officer or district inspector must first go to the office in the morning, for which he is on his way for half an hour, to change there and then return. In certain circumstances, for example in the Ardennes, a police zone sometimes extends over extensive territories. I can therefore imagine certain circumstances, and of course one should not be an idiot either. The questions for the arms of police officers are perfectly understandable in the current circumstances and threat situation. I understand the concerns of the agents, but I believe that the government, you, the legislator and we, should protect the executive authority from reacting very quickly and hastily and taking decisions that undermine existing legislation. In the past, the legislator has, on the basis of well-founded and still valid grounds, decided to treat police officers as a particular category in police personnel. This intrinsic distinction has had consequences in various fields (recruitment, selection, training, status, skills, armaments). Police officers therefore have no general administrative or judicial police competence in opposition to police officers. This essential distinction continues to form the basis of differentiated weapons equipment. I am well aware that a terrorist or someone with bad plans will not take into account the status of an agent and an inspector at all. I know that, but those categories are set for a reason. At federal and local level, we have made the necessary organisational arrangements to maximise security within existing legislation and within the existing police organisation. I've listed a number of things. There are others, but for understandable reasons I do not go into more detail. After all, if we make its entire security strategy known, it is no longer a security strategy. The debate on the adapted arms of police officers is something I would like to discuss, and I do not say in advance, in principle, 'no'. We can easily enter into this debate. I will also ask my advisers to examine it and consult with the trade unions on the matter in order to see what is reasonable and desirable in the debate. I hope that we can move away from the current threat level as soon as possible, because that means that circumstances change. I don't want to evolve very quickly under the influence of the current threat and maybe make mistakes. That wouldn't be wise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u31	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we must not act hastily. We will perhaps have the debate at a later date. Apart from the question, we hope, together with you, that the extended terrorist threat level 3 should not last too long, because it places a heavy burden on the corps, which cannot carry out other tasks properly. I suppose there are certainly good reasons to keep the threat level at level 3 for 14 days.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u32	Minister, thank you for your answer. There is no question of acting in haste. This debate had already taken place in 2010. At the time, he had not been conclusive. Today there is a particular level of alert which, I hope, will be lowered as soon as possible. In the meantime, it lasts and we hear a large number of calls for help at the local level – you must also receive them from your side – from some who do not feel safe. Exceptional regime as we know it now, with level 3 alert and the army in the streets, exceptional measures. Maybe it's not arms, it's something else. In any case, it is necessary to be able to hear people who do not feel safe. As you say, the terrorist will not embarrass himself with the status. I repeat, I have received several testimonies. It is in this sense that I asked you the question. What can be considered in particular for these individuals?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u33	At the end of January, there were again IS threats, first via video messages and then also in writing to the country, but also clearly to the Kurdish leader in Iraq. In Denderleeuw there is a Kurdish television station Roj TV. Six months ago, they already received a threat from a possible Syrian fighter. That's what the local police let you know at the time. Meanwhile, we're six months later and we've reached threat level 3. There's a real scare in these people. A few weeks ago, they made an emotional call on the local TV OOST. My question is whether you know of any new threats to the Kurdish channel or its staff? Is there any special consultation with the federal and local police? Does that happen on a regular basis? Are additional measures taken to protect employees and local residents? I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u34	When a threat comes in, it is always transferred to the OCAD that evaluates the threat. The threat to which you refer is that of September 2014. The OCAD was informed of this, but the person who reported the threat to the police, and who himself was the subject of the threat, withdrew his statements afterwards and did not want personal protection. The story's a little weird. The OCAD has no knowledge of any other threat to the television channel or its employees. With each threat, OCAD makes an analysis. On this basis, a level of protection is provided. That's the procedure. The Kurdistan issue is dealt with in Asia Minor in the framework of the Radicalism Action Plan. The plan distinguishes a number of axes because it is about a varied data. Syria and Iraq, for example, are completely different from Boko Haram. This is regularly followed up, also by the local task force under which Denderleeuw falls. In this task force, both federal and local police are represented. The information we find out at the federal level and the local task force is being exchanged within the framework of the local task force. There are no concrete threats now. What is being done on the radio and the surrounding area becomes a decision of the local police. The local police will decide on the basis of the analysis they get from the federal level. It is quite clear that, when it comes to a very high level of threat, there will be support from the federal level. If the threat level is low, it is a responsibility of the local police. I assume, however, that it is not buying with what it will do, if necessary, specifically. After all, that works counter-productively.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u35	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I assume that when there is a concrete threat, the analysis will be done through OCAD and the whole procedure will be initiated. Since there is now a threat level 3, I was wondering if there would be locations, such as locations in the Jewish community, which, without a specific threat, would receive additional surveillance anyway? After all, as I have already mentioned, the employees of the transmitter in question have asked for additional surveillance themselves. Furthermore, the studios and offices of that station are located in a residential area, 200 metres from a high school, which is next to a supermarket. So the neighborhood residents are also very concerned about the situation. However, I conclude from your reply that threat level 3 does not imply additional measures being taken by the federal level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u36	Mr President, Mrs Pas, that is because, on the basis of the information we have and which we exchange with the local level, there is no reason to provide for additional monitoring in this particular case. I can still tell you that if we are to be able to work immediately with the greatest resources for anyone who feels worried and asks for additional surveillance, we will be able to continue to do so. Fortunately, every situation is analysed by our services to determine whether the demand is justified. In the other case, the fence would be completely of the dam and it would not be possible to follow. Of course, this involves risk derivatives, because such an analysis is never 100% certain.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u37	Minister, the House's Committee on the Interior heard representatives of the College of Experts responsible for monitoring the automated voting and counting system on January 6. It was very interesting. They confirmed the overwhelming finding regarding the manner in which the voting and counting operations carried out by Stesud were carried out, under a public contract linking it to the Internal SPF. Your department's spokesperson said to the newspaper L'Echo on 28 May 2014: "We will now analyse the problem in view of the extent of the damage suffered. One thing is certain today, the promised benefits have not been achieved. We could ask them for compensation." We also learned, in response to a question that I asked you in the Committee of the Interior on 21 January, that "the PwC certificater was indeed to verify the "source code" of the voting software JITES and CODl counting designed by Stésud, under the various royal decrees and specifications that organize the electronic voting". However, on 6 January, the members of the College of Experts confirmed to us that the problems experienced by the JITES system during the last elections are linked to errors present in "two lines of the source code". Thus, while Stesud clearly lacked efficiency in the design of its software, PwC also seriously failed its certification task by not repeating these errors in the source code. Minister, in view of the very serious damage suffered by the Internal FPS in the general election on 25 May 2014, has the Internal FPS properly claimed compensation and compensation for repairs in Stesud? If so, how much? If not, why? Does the contract between Stesud and the Inland FPS provide for this type of compensation in the event of an operator's failure? Given the serious deficiencies identified by PwC's head in his audit engagement, is the Inland FPS considering withdrawing PwC's approval to continue to be selected as an auditor in the future? Indeed, at the last commission, you told me that PwC was one of those four companies validated by the Home SPF.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u38	Mr Hellings, I can indeed confirm to you that compensation has been requested from the company Stesud following the bug known in the elections of 25 May last. In fact, the Internal FPS considered that the responsibility of the company Stesud was incurred as a result of this bug. Following an assessment of the injury suffered and an examination of the arguments of each party, an agreement was reached with Stesud in early October. This agreement provides for compensation to the Internal SPF for a total amount of €405,900. This agreement concluded between the Internal SPF and Stesud was the subject of a favourable opinion before it was concluded by the Finance Inspectorate, which was accredited as a neutral party to my department. For your second question, like any contract involving the State, the contract concluded with Stesud for the programming of the software at issue falls within the general framework of the execution of public contracts, for which compensation may be sought in the event of poor performance. It is therefore the general rule that is applied. As regards the accreditation bodies for electronic voting software, experience has shown that their scope of control of these bodies must be very clearly defined in order to enhance the quality and completeness of these controls. The procedure for selecting accreditation bodies for the control of electoral software must also be considered in order to make it as independent and efficient as possible. Once these conditions have been established, a new call to control companies may be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u39	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am pleased to learn that compensation has indeed been required and obtained. You're talking about 450,000 euros. That's good, but it's to the extent of the injury suffered. Indeed, we stayed for several days without knowing who was elected. As far as the auditing company is concerned, as I understand it, a new tender will be launched for audit companies. In any case, I would like to draw your attention to the failure of PwC twice: in the general elections on 25 May, but also in the previous elections. Therefore, the Internal FPS must measure with the utmost caution any possible application of this company. We will therefore pay close attention to the new procedure that you will implement to make all this as transparent as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u40	Questions Nos 1831 and 1832 by Mrs Temmerman have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u41	Minister, since Saturday 17 January, military forces have been deployed in response to the increased level of threat. For the time being, this level will be maintained until 23 February, bringing the entire period of that threat to seven weeks. It was agreed that the variable costs of military deployment would be borne by the FPS Interior. A provisional budget was also allocated for this purpose. Of course, no one knows how long the threat level will be maintained, so we cannot fully estimate that budget either. The military will receive a premium depending on the situation in which they operate. The allocation shall be made on the basis of coefficients laid down in their Staff Regulations. If my information is correct, they would get about EUR 32 gross per day for this. My question is very simple: how many are the variable costs so far? Last weekend, we read in De Morgen that these would be EUR 340 000 per week. If we talk in seven weeks, we will get EUR 2.3 million. Can you confirm that amount?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u42	Mrs Gabriels, I can answer your question very specifically. The estimate of the variable costs in the period from 17 to 30 January of 14 days of the calendar year shall be a total of EUR 634 845. Of these, EUR 515 905 goes to staff and EUR 118 940 to operation, i.e. deployment of resources and equipment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u44	Mr President, Minister, you will remember that about a month ago, I asked you about Doel 4. You promised me that your collaborators would send me additional documents, but I haven't received anything yet. I would like to have these documents available quite quickly. Minister, the Tihange 1 reactor suddenly broke down on the evening of January 20th. Can you tell us the origin of this judgment and whether it concerned the nuclear part of the plant? Can you explain to us the measures that have been implemented to manage the incident and prevent its recurrence? Can you also tell us if the risk of a similar incident on other power stations is likely and if any action is taken on these other power stations to avoid such incidents?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u45	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Nollet, you are right about your question about Doel 4. As you said, on January 20, 2015, the Tihange 1 reactor automatically stopped because a valve in the steam generator water supply system was not working properly. This valve is located in the secondary circuit, outside the containment enclosure. A diagnosis revealed a defect on a coil of an electrovan that intervenes in the valve control, which caused its closure. A risk of a similar incident, i.e. a defect on a coil of an electrovane, cannot be excluded. To reduce the likelihood, the operator replaced all such solenoid valves after a similar incident in May 2008. The operator is considering whether it can make the criteria for acceptability of the tests even more stringent in order to detect as soon as possible the onset of degradation of these solenoid valves. The condition of the solenoid valve was considered acceptable until the incident, but a defect can never be ruled out, which is why the valves are designed to be in a safe position, i.e. in a closed position, if this type of incident occurs. Other reactor protection systems designed for this type of event worked perfectly by shutting down the reactor and cooling the core. This anomaly has no effect on workers, the population or the environment. After replacement of the necessary elements, the unit was safely restarted the day after. This difference is, however, an anomaly that has been classified at level 1 of the INES scale with seven. It is obvious that if the measures for Tihange 1 are also applicable to the other units, they will be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u46	Mr President, I want to be sure that I understand. Were all valves replaced in 2008 or were they replaced recently as a result of this incident?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u47	Yes, in 2008.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u48	Were they only in Tihange 1 or everywhere? [[Acquiescence]] All right. And now it is found that despite this replacement, there has been an incident. We'll check if more severe tests are not to be performed. That's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u49	Mr Minister, this article provides for the possibility for the mayor, following a reasoned request from the President of the OCMW Council and following a warning from the owner, to claim and make available to homeless persons any building that has been abandoned for at least six months. The right to claim may be exercised only within a period of six months from the day on which the mayor informed the owner and, of course, subject to fair remuneration. Is this being applied? How many times has this article been used in the last five years? Can you split up according to the Region to which the municipality belongs?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u50	Mrs Lanjri, this matter falls within the exclusive competence of the Regions. I do not have any information on this and cannot therefore say anything about it. Mr President, I know that the Rules of Procedure provide for such an answer. If you will allow me, I would like my services to inform the questioner immediately in the future if we receive such a question and evacuate them here. The Rules of Procedure provide otherwise, but if I may, we will do so in the future, because this is annoying for the Member concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u51	I could have had this question put by my fellow Members in the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u52	Mr Minister, this question is about a problem which is indeed our responsibility. In June 2013, we created a new law on marriages of convenience and cohabitation. In this way it is also possible to better deal with bogus cohabitation. People who set up a false relationship in order to obtain a residence permit can therefore be checked more strictly, both in advance and after living together, as has already been done in the case of marriages of convenience. The problem was that people shop and try to marry in different municipalities. Very often, one municipality was not aware of an attempt at marriage in another municipality. Sometimes it wasn't even about an attempted marriage of convenience, but there was already a conviction for marriage of convenience. We have decided that there should be a database which can only be consulted by competent officials. In particular, it concerns civil servants, DVZ and the public prosecutors. The previous government has chosen not to create a separate database for this purpose, but to work with a certain code in the National Register. In this way, officials can obtain the necessary information for persons at risk of marriage or marriage through the National Register. In December 2013, the texts of the relevant KB were on the table and were sent to the Council of State for advice. In the meantime, has the National Register been adapted so that it can be used as a means of recording in the fight against sham marriages and bogus cohabitation. If not, why isn't that all right? If so, is the system often used? In the meantime, how many cases of marriage, cohabitation or attempts were registered using that database?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u53	The Royal Decree of 28 February 2014 supplements the data entered in the population registers with the two new information data, which you have just described. This decision was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 24 March 2014. On 1 February 2015, 802 files containing information relating to a sham marriage and 926 files containing information relating to a bogus legal cohabitation were registered in the population registers. The National Register is therefore used. The data is registered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for the clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u55	Minister, at the beginning of February, the Spanish press revealed a network of about 250 businesses, ranging from telephone shops to butchers, collecting money for terrorist organisations such as IS and Al-Nusra. These small businesses use the so-called Hawala money transfer systems. In Spain, this system is also used by 150,000 Muslims to send money to their homeland. This system is located outside the regular banking system, making it particularly difficult to control it. They recruit jihadists in Spain, as in Belgium, but at the same time they also provide funding. The network in Spain would still be growing. Since both recruitment and financing of terrorism and radicalisation are included in the measures designed to combat radicalisation, I believe that this issue should also be examined in Belgium. Is there a similar network in Belgium, Minister? If so, do you have any idea its size? What concrete actions will you take to detect, expose and tackle this network?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u56	Unfortunately, the Hawala money transfer system is also known in our country. This form of underground banking is not permitted by law because the funds are transferred outside the regulatory system, such as Western Union or Moneytrans. Underground banking systems are often centuries old and historically developed in countries where there was no extensive banking network. The Hawala system is just one of them. Often they are based on ethnic or family ties and the basis on which such a system can thrive is a basis of mutual trust. The money is handed over in cash at a support point, after which the same amount can be collected in a contact, by telephone, by fax or by e-mail, anywhere in the world. Membership or accounts are not required. These systems are interesting for people with less honorable intentions because they can circumvent the preventive money laundering system. The exact size of the money circulating in underground banking is very difficult to estimate. Nor is it the case that the funds discovered by police and customs always have a criminal origin or serve criminal purposes. They're on an illegal circuit, but that doesn't mean that the money itself came from criminal purposes. Moreover, there is no link between users of such systems and religion. Underground banking occurs in Asia, the Middle East, Africa, Europe and Latin America. So it's a global phenomenon. Now I come to your second question. The cash transports are known to the police and customs and enjoy their full attention. The National Security Plan 2012-2015 includes the attention to such cash checks in three programme files, namely a programme file on money laundering, terrorism and migration. Police and customs services regularly carry out seizures, but of course they do not discover all the illegal money flows. The efforts of the police and customs services to deal with this so-called underground banking are therefore continuing. Something in me says that they will also be continued in the National Security Plan after 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u57	Minister, that last remark is very satisfactory. From your answer, I conclude that we do not know directly how many businesses are involved in such procedures or in that carousel. We encourage you to continue to make efforts in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u58	Mr President, Minister, security services are calling for more powers to deal with aggression in hospitals. The trade union asks permission to verify identity and the consent to captivate aggressive people. How many times a year does the police have to be called in to skirmish in a hospital? Is it already being prepared by your services to extend the powers? If it is not yet prepared, what is your vision? The use of handcuffs can now only be made by the special surveillance company of the public transport companies. Do you consider an extension to the other surveillance companies necessary? Do you also envisage an extension to internal surveillance services, which are subject to lower conditions in the field of training and so on?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u59	Mr President, Mr Demon, the private security services trade unions in hospitals have also mentioned this, and the press also paid attention to it last week, and so my attention was drawn to this problem. With regard to your question for figures, I regret to disappoint you, because there are no statistics on this, there is no search function in the hospital intervention database. The problem of violence in hospitals is a fact but at the same time complex and delicate. That is not something in which one can just take the right position. The aggression caused by patients occurs mainly in emergency services and psychiatric wards of hospitals. Certain hospitals already take precautions such as limiting the number of people a patient can accompany at the emergency service. However, the demand for additional security measures and additional powers for the security services remains. The law on private security will be reviewed for this legislature. This also calls on the sector, including internal surveillance services, to identify their needs. The dossier is also related to the key tasks debate currently under way in the police services. The question is how far a private security service can go in this regard. You know what the law says. I explained it in the press. The private security services in hospitals are allowed to do nothing more than what you and I can do when we are confronted with it on the streets, i.e. when someone comes in who is aggressive or threatening. We can stop someone, any citizen can. The private security service shouldn't go beyond that either. It is true that these people are better trained for such actions than I am for you, I do not know. I assume that they can respond more appropriately in this area, but they should not be more than one citizen. We will have a debate within the framework of the key tasks debate, but I do not wish to express my opinion in advance on whether or not additional powers will be conferred on those private security services. However, if these private security services were to be given additional powers, this could only be done under very strict conditions and under police control. I am open to that debate. We will also do so in the context of the key tasks debate. You know that this will take place in the very near future. However, I am reluctant to speak on this issue too vigorously.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u60	So, Minister, your immediate vision does not yet give you. You said in December that the core tasks debate would take place at the end of February and that you would come up with a number of things. Am I wrong about that? What's the timing of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u61	That timing of the core task debate is still valid. The Task Force will present a report at the end of February. Then we start consulting, for example with the VVSG, with the local police zones, with other stakeholders. It is my ambition to conclude this debate at government level before the summer, and then we can come to Parliament with this. I'd like to maintain that timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u62	I will probably have misunderstood that this would take place at the end of February.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u63	The task force must complete its report by the end of this month.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u64	Mr President, Minister, since 2012, important substantive work has been done by your predecessor, again, in order to boost the implementation of the law of 15 May 2007 on civil security reform. The adoption of the Royal Decrees on the administrative and financial status of operational personnel in the relief zones has, among other things, clarified the ranks by defining the function, combined with a corresponding baraemic scale. Emergency zone personnel are essential links for the safety of citizens. It is therefore essential to ensure that operational staff are trained to meet the needs of the field. In this sense, the previous government had begun a thorough work, in consultation with the administration and the actors on the ground, in order to reform the training of the operational members of the relief zones. In particular, it provided for each grade to be associated with specific training and an accreditation system for fire schools. The Royal Decree on the reform of the training of operational staff would appear to have been agreed within the previous government and approved by the Finance Inspectorate. We are therefore surprised that it has not yet been published in the Moniteur belge. Field actors are working hard on the establishment of relief zones, and training reform is particularly expected, particularly with regard to the promotion, retraining and training of new staff. We must inform them and accompany them at best in this work. Predictability and organization are the key words. Minister, to what extent have you continued the work undertaken under the previous Parliament? Do you make any changes to what was envisaged at the time? If so, which ones? What is the timetable followed by the Government for the adoption of the Royal Decree on the reform of the training of operational personnel in relief areas (trade union negotiations, political negotiations, Council of State opinion, publication in the Belgian Monitor)? When can it come into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u65	Mr President, Mrs Matz, since the new statute refers to the Royal Decree on the reform of training, it is clear that this issue is a priority in the finalization of civil security reform. That is why my services are working intensively on this issue. I can tell you that the work undertaken under the previous legislature is well taken into account. However, the draft royal decree has undergone some adaptations in order to better take into account the specificities of volunteer firefighters. In my view, the Royal Decree as drafted by the previous government involved the balance between work and private life for volunteer firefighters. Professional obligations were too heavy. We refer to the October 2014 statement by the current government that we attach paramount importance to the status and responsibilities of volunteer firefighters. We want to maintain an acceptable balance with them. It is in this sense that we have made some adjustments. We are not changing the level of training: it is changing and it is unthinkable that firefighters will be trained differently, to the detriment of volunteer firefighters. On the other hand, we will take this balance into account for the time spent on training. The project is currently being finalized. Discussions will begin during this month of February between the various partners, including fire brigades, fire schools, urban and municipal organizations, and trade union organizations. The draft text will then be submitted to the Council of Ministers and then sent to the Council of State. Following the advice of the Council of State, if necessary, the text will be adapted to any comments. The final version will then be published in the Belgian Monitor. In order to prevent zones from promoting or hiring firefighters, it is preferable for the Royal Decree to enter into force as soon as possible. In the meantime, a circular has been distributed to instruct that it is still possible to continue the training of firefighters under the former regime.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u66	Mr President, Minister, I thank you for your answer and for taking this matter to heart. I admit I was afraid to hear you talk about adaptation: I thought you were considering training with varying geometry according to the status of professional or volunteer, which would have been illogical given that this is the same job. Of course, they are professionally occupied elsewhere, privately. As for the spread of training over time, I understand that they will have more time to upgrade. For the short enough time, perhaps we can hope for the end of April, with one month of negotiations and the transition to the Council of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u67	It'll be as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u68	Minister, we support the government's willingness to move quickly. There is a real expectation of land, you have no doubt, concerning these texts. The fact that you have been able to take a circular that reassures you about the old arrangements is quite significant.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u69	Mr President, Minister, last week the French government launched the website www.stop-jihadism.gouv.fr to fight jihadist radicalism on the Internet. We have already discussed this a great deal. This site aims to inform all citizens in an educational way, through infographics, videos and testimonials. It is divided into several headings, including "understanding the terrorist threat", "decrypting jihadist propaganda", "acting and mobilizing". The site opens with a two-minute film featuring photos and excerpts of propaganda films designed to encourage young people to travel to Syria or Iraq to join the ranks of the Islamic State. They are then deconstructed, point by point, by new images showing the reality of jihad. The platform also redirects to other sites or contacts and offers deradicalization paths. This site strengthens the national system of assistance to families and relatives, including a green number and an Internet reporting form. Under the previous legislature, Minister Milquet also created a centralized contact point, via the address syrie@ibz.fgov.be, aimed in particular at families affected by the departure of a relative to Syria, who wish to obtain information, help or provide information on specific cases. Minister, we know that the Internet is a key element in the dissemination of jihadist propaganda and the recruitment of combatants. Combating radicalism and terrorism requires comprehensive action in the area of prevention, law enforcement and law enforcement. There is no one-size-fits-all solution or easy response. It is by acting on these three aspects, through various measures, that results can be produced. Minister, can you explain to us what measures are being put in place in Belgium to combat jihadist propaganda on the Internet, on the one hand, and to support families and relatives, on the other? Is the email address syrie@ibz.fgov.be still used by your services? Does the government plan to create a site similar to French "stop-jihadism"? You will certainly tell me that you will make some of the decisions in Washington on February 17, 2015. It is known, however, that special measures must be taken here in Belgium. Two days ago, there was the broadcast on the RTBF of a French report on a group of people working on the deradicalization of young people. There was the testimony of some young people who explained how they had been "harassed" by these groups, whether by gsm, via Facebook or other channels. This group was multidisciplinary. Among other things, there was a specialist in deradicalization and a specialist in sects, since it is a sectarian phenomenon. It was interesting to see how this group managed to help young people, especially through social networks. My question is no malice. I think that is one of the crucial points on which we have no vision. What does a family do if they feel that they're going to leave? We are following you on the removals of travel documents, but what about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u70	Mr President, Madam, with regard to the measures put in place in Belgium to combat jihadist propaganda on the Internet, it seems to me appropriate to put the problem in context. The term 'jihadism' may not be the best chosen in this context, since strategic communication goes beyond that. It is about communicating to counter and prevent violent extremism, terrorism and the support they can find. My services have been busy on this subject for a while. Thus, a scientific study was carried out in 2013 and 2014 to allow a better understanding of social networks and their influence on young people and on the process of radicalisation. Extremist groups such as the Islamic State or Al-Qaeda are effectively using social networks to radicalize, recruit and incite European citizens to take part in the armed conflict in Syria. Given the important role of communication in undermining the attractiveness of these groups, we have made the necessary efforts to achieve results. With financial support from the European Commission, it was decided to create a Syria Strategic Communication Advisory Team (SSCAT) and a dedicated network at European level as part of a project led by Belgium. Based on this project, a strategic communications structure will be developed to serve local and regional entities as well as the federal level. The aim is to advise the Member States in the field of their strategic communication, the State is then free to implement these opinions, depending on the appropriate communication instruments. With regard to measures to support families and relatives, the fight against extremist violence and terrorism requires a comprehensive and integrated approach by all actors in the security chain and at all levels of government concerned. In addition to the security work carried out by the national police and intelligence services, support for the families of those who have gone to fight or who have returned is mainly a matter of local and community policy. The local level is clearly separate and does not have a ready-made solution. For this reason, it is necessary for the current aid structures to collaborate with all relevant local actors, with the aim of establishing appropriate individual collaboration. The address syrie@ibz.fgov.be is always active. The e-mails that are sent are received by the crisis centre that reads and processes them. In addition, there is currently no website similar to the French site. It is important to stress that the initiative is useful for informing local authorities or professionals. That is why my services are considering the possibility of creating such a website. This site should be part of a comprehensive communication strategy. Having said that, I've seen the French government's film that we're talking about so much. I am not convinced that this style is the best to convince young people. In my view, this initiative should not come from state institutions. On the other hand, it seems to me that another tone should be used. But this is a personal assessment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u71	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. During its presentation, the French site met with many critics. It is mocked by young people and not necessarily taken into account by them. A clip other than the French clip can be made. What is important, in my view, is to have information at the federal level. As regards the address syrie@ibz.fgov.be, if, as parliamentarians, we do not know if it still exists, what about the citizens? What is the anchor point? If it does exist and allows people to report departures or ask questions, etc., it may be of some interest. But how do I know? However, the idea of having a comprehensive platform at national level is interesting, particularly in that it would make it possible to inform people who are currently relatively poor and who do not know who to address, what to do, what to say, etc. In my view, this should be addressed as part of a comprehensive strategy with the objective of having a reference tool for people who are lost in terms of everything they hear and who do not know very well how to proceed. Consideration could also be given to using the services of communication professionals, psychology professionals, as well as all professionals who can intervene when it comes to radicalization.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u72	Mr President, Minister, the European Refugee Fund (ERF), which is responsible for co-financing projects related to the reception and integration of refugees, is coming to an end. Some 30 Belgian projects that were part of this fund will now have to meet the conditions of the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund (FAMI) in order to obtain similar aid. The call for projects had not been launched on 29 January, causing concern for some ERF beneficiaries. They cannot foresee the future and some fear that they will have to close shop, with the waiting time causing them cash flow problems. This is particularly the case of INTACT, a young ASBL in charge of protecting women and girls from genital mutilation, who is dependent on the assistance of the FER at 75%. Minister, will the criteria for admission of the new fund be different from those of the ERF? Is it planned to include all ERF projects in the FAMI and if not, will the projects not selected be able to turn to other sources of funding? Will the budget allocated to the FAMI be the same as that allocated to the ERF? When will the call for projects be launched and how long will the transition from one fund to another take? What steps or assistance are possible during this period for organizations in cash flow difficulties as cited in the case of INTACT?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u73	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, the criteria for admission of the new FAMI/AMIF fund will essentially be the same as those of the old fund. Access to the means will be through an open call for projects. Not all projects of the former European Refugee Fund will automatically be included in the new FAMI fund. As I have just indicated, access to the fund will be through an open call for projects procedure whereby bidders who best meet the financial and content criteria will be allocated the means for a project. Unsuccessful projects will be able to find another possible source of subsidy from Fedasil, known as the "specific agreement". Secondly, the FAMI budget is not the same as the ERF budget. The new FAMI is not comparable, as it brings together three old funds: refugees, integration and return. The former European Refugee Fund will end on 30 June. It covers projects up to that date. The implementation of the new FAMI will make it possible to finance projects from 1 July. A first call for projects will be launched during this semester. It will be widely distributed to all potential stakeholders. At its launch, an information session will be organized in collaboration with Fedasil. In addition, in the context of the implementation of the FAMI, opportunities to cover actions whose continuity would be threatened are under consideration. A call for projects will soon be published.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u74	Minister, thank you for your fairly comprehensive answer. As you mentioned the merger of three funds, it would be interesting to know whether their total is lower or not than that dedicated to FAMI. I have appreciated your response element, which can solve cash flow problems similar to those of the INTACT ASBL. So I'll pay attention to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u75	Mr. Chair, Minister, the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (FCCA) waited until Friday, January 30, 2015 to make public an incident that occurred on November 17, 2014 at IBA in Fleurus, which produces radioisotopes. According to the information published, this would be a level 2 incident on the INES (International Scale of Nuclear Events). During a period of production, it would have been the operators who would have found that the safety controller, supposed to check that all safety devices were available, was not working well. As the appropriate minister, could you tell us more about the causes of this incident? Why was it classified at level 2 of the INES scale? Could you indicate why the AFCN waited so long – almost three months – before making the incident public? Would it not have been better to communicate earlier with the surrounding population to avoid any risk of suspicion about the seriousness of the incident? Could you reassure the residents about the consequences of the incident and the steps taken to prevent it from happening again in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u76	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Thiébaut, the INES scale classification is done by means of the INES manual prepared by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)). The purpose of this manual is to work with the most consistent possible classification of incidents on the scale within the country using it. AFCN has imposed the use of the INES scale and manual on all Belgian operators. The classification of an incident depends on the actual consequences of the incident, such as the number of people irradiated and the severity of the irradiation; it can also be based on the potential maximum consequences that could have occurred in the event of a failure of the safety system, even if no significant effects have occurred. This makes the INES scale a rigorous tool. The incident referred to for IBA Fleurus falls into the second category. There are a number of safety provisions in this type of facility, ensuring that every worker will not be exposed beyond the regulatory limits. This is usually a combination of technical and administrative provisions. The malfunctioning safety controller manages the safety system that prevents the start of the cyclotron if the bunker door is not locked and/or the door locking procedure has not been correctly applied, or prevents the bunker door from being opened if the cyclotron is in operation and/or the dose flow inside the bunker is too high. Where a failure occurs in the safety system set up to protect workers, as in the present case, the maximum potential consequences of such failure should be assessed and the number of safety barriers remaining effective determined. This reasoning, in accordance with the INES manual, gives a level 2 INES classification corresponding, according to the terminology of the INES manual, to a significant failure of the safety provisions without real consequences. This is the review that the AFCN has done. In order to properly classify the incident, it was necessary to determine the number of safety barriers that remained effective. As the anomaly was related to a failure of the safety controller, the operator called on the controller supplier for independent expertise. The latter did not demonstrate that there remained operational security barriers at the automaton level at the time of the anomaly. The time required for the organization and completion of the expertise explains the delay prior to the publication of the incident. The AFCN learns that at a similar next event, the INES level must be announced more quickly, even if the level is only a preliminary estimate. This type of anomaly reduces the level of safety within the facility, but does not result in any possible consequences for residents and/or anyone present in the facility but not in the cyclotron bunker. As a reminder, this incident had no effect on the health of workers, the population, or the environment and did not cause any damage to the facilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u77	Minister, thank you for this very detailed and comprehensive answer. I note that there is no threat to staff or the population near the site. I also note that the Agency recognizes that it would be preferable in the future to communicate earlier on the INES level of an incident in such an institution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u78	The Coordination Body for Threat Analysis OCAD scans possible risks for carnival in Aalst, we have heard. Given that many carnival tours and other events are still being organised in the coming weeks, we wonder whether risk analyses are always being carried out for this purpose. Are other events being investigated for possible threats? Can local authorities or police zones contact a specific department if they have questions about the security of a planned event in their municipality? Is there automatic contact from the federal level with the municipal authorities and police zones? To what extent can local authorities rely on specific support from the federal government and the federal police? If I'm well informed, the federal police intervention force consists of five hundred agents who are meant to support, not derogatoryly, as a man-of-all such matters. Have specific steps been taken in the coming weeks, or is that premature?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u79	Luckily, they're not the man-of-all: before the federal dishwashing, you can't ask for the support services. The OCAD has no knowledge of specific threats to the various festivities during the carnival period. You know that threat level 3 currently applies to the whole country. In this context, it was specified that events at which many people are present, such as most carnival events, are certainly sensitive to the level of security. This does not apply specifically to carnival, but to all the events on which many people are present. Therefore, the OCAD recommends vigilance for the carnival celebrations. Local authorities make their own analysis and take measures that seem proportionate and important. OCAD therefore does not have a specific message for carnival celebrations, but says that we are in general threat level 3 and therefore need to watch out for events where many people meet: keep an eye on that and make your analysis. When local police areas have concerns, they can always request a specific evaluation from the OCAD. People know that, too. That's not news. When local police areas have specific concerns, they can always request an evaluation from the OCAD. The OCAD will also make that evaluation. Each week at 8:00 a.m. on Friday morning, the crisis center will meet to review the evaluations. The major events that are taking place are also listed and additional measures are specifically considered. That system is pretty well under control. If the local authorities wish to call on specific support from the local government in this case, for example, support in organising an event like a carnival procession, the local zone will contact the DirCo, the director-coordinator of the federal police. That is also the normal procedure. The DirCo then looks further at the contacts with the federal police for the analysis of the support requested to determine which means can be used. However, this is also known in the zones, in such a case they must contact the DirCo which then makes an additional analysis. If he believes that there should indeed be additional aid, it will be decided, in consultation with the local area, what that aid should be.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u80	That's obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u81	Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Groote's 1975 question is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u82	Minister, the Doel 4 nuclear reactor has restarted since December 19th. Since the causes of the incident that damaged the plant's steam turbine last August are still not established, the AFCN has imposed additional safety measures to allow the reboot of this reactor. One of these additional measures concerned the introduction of the "four-eye principle", which provides that workers at the plant may operate in certain areas only in teams of two. Another measure imposed by the AFCN is the installation of additional cameras. More than a month after Doel 4 is restarted, it is necessary to ensure that these measures are applied correctly. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr Minister, the following questions: has AFCN carried out specific inspections to assess whether the complementary security measures, following the Doel 4 incident, are properly implemented in the Doel and Tihange power stations? Are the additional cameras requested by AFCN installed and operational at Doel and Tihange sites? As far as the "four eyes" policy is concerned, what are the professional qualifications required of the attendants? Indeed, it is not enough to set up teams of two to ensure safety. Each of the two individuals must be able to control the actions of the other. This implies that they have the same level of technical knowledge of the tasks to be performed. For example, one cannot imagine that a chemist is able to control the actions of a welder, and vice versa. Therefore, what conditions are imposed by the Agency in this respect? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u83	Mr. Chairman, following the steam turbine incident on August 5, AFCN immediately imposed additional security measures on the Doel and Tihange sites. These were evaluated and completed following the restart of the Doel 4 nuclear reactor. Some additional protective and safety-related measures, such as the installation of additional cameras, the four-eye principle, had already been put in place at the time the Doel 4 nuclear reactor was restarted. However, they are part of a much broader programme of complementary security measures gradually implemented at all nuclear power plant sites in Belgium. The implementation of these is carried out according to the established schedule. The cameras are already installed as well as the principle of the 4 eyes. The implementation of these complementary safety measures was closely monitored by the AFCN through contacts with the operator and on-site inspections. The four-eye principle actually implies that both people are able to control each other's activities. It is therefore necessary for both persons to have the necessary knowledge of the tasks to be carried out in order to be able to intervene in a preventive manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u84	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u85	Mr President, Minister, you gave an interview in Le Soir on Saturday, January 24. In this interview, you explain that it is a pity to have cancelled the Ramdam festival in Tournai. You say that is to say that it is enough to brandish threats so that society censors itself. You conclude by saying that we must defend ourselves against threats, but not by self-censorship. For your information, the Ramdam team, the first involved in the measure, agrees with this decision. In a press release, the team said there was no doubt that the exceptional measure that struck its event was for well-founded reasons. I personally took this closure decision after consultation with the federal police, the zonal police and the King's prosecutor. Indeed, I have been informed by the judicial authority of serious evidence of a risk of attack at the place where the Ramdam was being held. On this basis, the judicial and police authorities defined the level of risk at a particularly high level that could not be underestimated. Can you tell me, minister, if you had the same level of intelligence as I did when you made your point? Can you also remind us of the level of personal responsibility of the mayors if an incident was to take place and that they had not taken the appropriate measures to prevent it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u86	Mr Delannois, first of all, I think I said in an interview that it was a shame. This does not mean that it was not justified. I was asked a question; the content of my answer was that what I find unfortunate is self-censorship because of the current situation. For the federal level, when a risk event is announced, the procedure involves collecting available information in order to ask the OCAM and the federal police for an assessment of the threat to this event based on the collected elements. In addition, there is also an operational evaluation to be carried out by field services. As regards the question of the responsibility of the mayors, the question can be summarized as follows: Articles 133, 134 and 135 of the new communal law make the mayor the authority responsible for administrative police in the territory of his municipality, authorize him to issue police orders and give him the duty to act and take the measures required to ensure security and public order in the territory of his municipality. Generally speaking, the mayor's lack of knowledge of his obligations constitutes a fault within the meaning of articles 1382 and 1383 of the Civil Code. The public authorities may, in the exercise of their duties, commit acts or omissions which constitute a breach of the duty of prudence and security imposed by the above-mentioned article 1382. In general, case law recognizes that the obligation to ensure public safety is an obligation of means in the head of public authorities. The wrongful behaviour of the authority and its agents is appreciated in the light of concrete facts, depending on the elements known at the time of its adoption. It follows that, in the event of a dispute, the court will assess, on the basis of the facts, whether the authority acted like any normally careful and prudent person placed under the same conditions. The authority is obliged to make every effort to ensure optimal protection of persons and property. The judge will assess whether, in the light of the evidence available to him, the authority has reasonably exercised the legal means to which it should have resorted. With regard to the prevention of a terrorist attack, the Brussels Court of First Instance held: "The State and, where appropriate, the City of Brussels are bound by an obligation of means in terms of the prevention of terrorism, their responsibility having to be assessed according to the concrete circumstances of the space and the time according to the criteria of the normally careful and prudent person, placed in the same circumstances. The security obligation cannot therefore go so far as to prevent any risk to the Belgian citizen or resident, even in the event of a serious terrorist threat, under penalty of turning this obligation of means into an obligation of results". The mayor may also incur criminal liability if the fault or omission attributed to him constitutes an offence. Criminal responsibility is personal and individual. Therefore, only the person who committed the offence must be held accountable. It should be noted, however, that article 5 of the Criminal Code, which was re-established by the Act of 4 May 1999 establishing the criminal liability of legal persons, provides as follows: "The federal State, the Regions, the Communities, the provinces, the Brussels agglomeration and the municipalities may not be regarded as criminally liable for the application of this article." Consequently, the federal State and the municipalities cannot be criminally responsible, and it is for the judge to determine the natural persons, organs or servants through whom the legal person acted. For local events such as the Ramdam festival, there is no question for the federal level to substitute for the role of the mayor, who remains in this respect the only final person responsible for the maintenance or not of an event in the territory of his commune, as explained above.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u87	Minister, thank you. I am very happy with your answer for a whole series of reasons. First of all, you will have understood that it was more the mayor than the deputy who asked you. Excuse me for using this double cap. Thank you for reminding us of the importance of the acts committed by the mayors. On the other hand, I have heard that you find it a pity, like me, that the Ramdam is being removed. Although freedom of expression must be taken into account, the safety of people must always take precedence. I heard in your answer that you were not questioning the decision made and that it was entirely justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u88	Minister, over the last few months we have had an exchange of views on the pension dossier. The first time, at the end of 2014, you put the deadline first. We all understand that this is not an obvious file, but this deadline was not met. At the beginning of January, you indicated that you would test some of the compromise proposals bilaterally and that you absolutely wanted to conclude this by the end of January, either with an agreement with the syndicated partners or without agreement. What is the state of play with regard to the negotiations on the police pension? I understand that no agreement has yet been reached, otherwise, of course, that would have been great news. Why are the negotiations dragging on much longer than anticipated? In what areas does the government's view differ from the views of the various interlocutors? Is it intended to sit around the table again or will the government simply decide? Do you hold on to the bilateral negotiations? I understand that you are negotiating separately with a number of syndicated partners and not with others. My question is therefore whether all the syndicated partners will be involved in the negotiations or whether you will remain selective? What time limit do you impose on yourself to reach an agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u89	Minister, I can be brief because much has already been said. I, too, would have liked to have had a state of affairs. You have said that you want to solve the problem in the short term in order to remove the uncertainty among many policemen. I would like to see a state of affairs and possibly an explanation of what is still blocking an agreement today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u90	This is yet another proof that it is very, very unwise in politics to mention a date. Congratulations. You set me up with a date last time. You won't be able to do that anymore. It is clear that we did not reach the deadline. I also said at the time that we would have an agreement with the social partners or else the government would decide unilaterally. Why haven't we done that yet? At the moment, I believe that an agreement is still feasible. So the conversations are still going on. It is clear that the conclusion of the process will take place with the four social organisations. I have now taken this matter on Friday in the nuclear cabinet to try to bring the positions of the social partners and the government closer together at that level. In that sense, I believe that we can reach a decision within a few weeks, and not just within a few months. I will not make the points yet, because that would not be wise. I really hope to be able to reach an agreement with the social partners, not least because the police people currently have a very important social responsibility. At a threat level 3 I hope that we will not be in a situation of confrontation with the police, but that together we will be able to resolve this sensitive issue. I had hoped to be able to go faster, but since I still think the chance to reach a comparison is real, I think that is more important than getting a date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u91	Minister, I fully agree with your two final points. It is very clear that policemen are currently under enormous pressure and are knocking for a lot of hours and overtime. It's not the time to confront them. It's never really that. I remember two positive points. First of all, you are striving to reach an agreement. That is better than the government is going to impose things unilaterally. Secondly, you want an agreement with the four partners. Indeed, it is important that the talks should not be with just a few syndicated partners but with all of them. After all, I have a small deadline for you, and you said it's going to be weeks and not months, so you can expect me to ask you about the state of affairs in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u92	Minister, I have no reply. I wish you every success in reaching the proposed agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u93	Mr Minister, in the recent BOB campaign, a good end result was put: only 2.8 % of the controlled drivers blew positively. This is the best result since the start of the PDO campaigns. Although the number of checks decreased slightly, the number of checks exceeded the proposed figure of 250 000. BOB has done an enormous amount of good work over the past 20 years, but every campaign calls into question the effectiveness of PDO. Again, despite the good figures, there are critical comments. The first observation is that if one drinks and drives, one drinks firmly. One is not just above the limit, but a whole percentage. Two out of three positive drivers have an alcohol percentage of more than 0.8 promille in the blood. That's not small. The second observation is that there are very clear differences between the provinces as regards the number of alcohol tests carried out. The number of positive directors in a province is inversely proportional to the number of controls. When the objective and subjective opportunity increases, the driver will adjust his behavior. That is obvious, but it has also been demonstrated. The third observation is that the number of night checks during the last PDO campaign has fallen significantly. The BIVV showed a decrease of 20%. However, a previous behavioral measurement carried out by the BIVV shows that nocturnal checks result in more positive breath tests. That is something we must bear in mind in the future. Major accidents also occur more frequently at night than during the day. The Federal Road Police also admits that there is a link between the number of night checks and the number of positive cases. What is the exact and relative number of nocturnal checks carried out during the past PDO campaign? How many drivers were caught driving drunk at night? Is there a statistical difference with the number of positive cases during the day? What are the exact figures? To what extent does a lower number of night checks give a distorted picture of the number of positive cases? What's the margin of error? I refer to what the critics say about this. Why are there major differences between the different provinces as regards the number of checks? Are those in line with the number of checks at more risky times? Can we indicate something objective in that, or is it just that? In what way do you want local police forces to carry out more checks at the risky moments? How will you ensure that quantitative objectives remain compatible with the quality of controls? It is not possible, when it is found that there are more positive controls at night, but that it is a little easier to check during the day, to carry out more checks during the day than at night. Finally, how do you see the PDO campaigns in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u94	That's a lot of questions. As for your first question, out of 321 156 registered alcohol controls, 71 939 were carried out during the night. That's 22.4% of all tests. However, I would like to explain how we define night checks and day checks, because that is necessary in order to interpret the figures correctly. Night checks are recorded as such when the starting time of the check is 22h 00 or later. That means that a check that starts at 21:30 is not a night check. The end hour doesn't matter. That can be discussed, but it is the case. The night ends for the statistics at 6:00. That is, if we compare day and night, then we compare two thirds of the time, namely sixteen hours, to one third of the time, namely eight hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u95	How long will most checks take?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u96	I can't answer that immediately. However, this year we have opted to move the controls more often. I therefore believe that this year's controls are relatively shorter and that the night controls, as you and I understand, are closer to reality than before. This also has to do with threat level 3, as a result of which the recommendation was made not to stay in the same place for six hours, but to stay three times two hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u97	So, Minister, if the check starts at 20:30 and ends at 23:00, that's not a night check, but if the same policemen on the street next door start checking at 23:00, is that a night check?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u98	Yes. That's a matter of registration. Also the other way around, but I don't know if that happens often, a check that starts at 5:30 is a night check, even though it runs until noon. The latter will be less common than the former. I will deal with your second and third questions at the same time. On weekdays, 1.4 % of the audited is reduced. 2.5 % is reduced during the weekend day checks. I see you writing down, but I will also give you the written impact of my answer. During the night checks in the week, 7 % is reduced, and 6.5 % at the weekend. The figure for the night checks is therefore slightly lower than in the week. In order to answer your question correctly, more in-depth research is needed. It is not enough to compare the exact figures of the checks. The relocation of control posts also has to do with this. With regard to the supply of traffic during the checks, it is at least as important to study whether the night checks follow the supply. There are many parameters that play a role. What would be the alternative? The question whether the night checks combined with the night supply of vehicles should lead to lower or higher percentages should be investigated. There has been no scientific research, but we are empirically finding that more and more drivers take their precautions and spend the night near the parties or organise alternative transport. The effective supply of vehicles to be checked decreases according to the perception of the operational controllers. In order to objectify that, a much more in-depth study is needed. That hasn't happened yet. As far as your fourth question is concerned, we are effectively identifying large differences between the different provinces. The press didn't miss that either. I have had to answer that question a number of times. One of the possible explanations may be the use of pretests using the sampler. Only when there is an indication of intoxication will the real device be used. That goes much faster, because with the ordinary machine the straws in which is blown have to be replaced each time. With a presampling, we can do a lot more. Not every zone has bought them and used them. However, we have little to say about whether these were directed towards the most risky moments. I don't have that information. There, too, a thorough analysis and monitoring of the accident rate is necessary. I come to the question of possible elements that can explain the difference between the provinces. The tests are done by the federal and local authorities. Federally, we've run the same number of tests in every province. So the differences are in the local zones. What can explain the differences between the provinces? There are more police zones and therefore more police personnel in Flanders than in Wallonia. Certain provinces have been very active for years on the issue of driving under the influence. In Antwerp there are the WODCA controls and in Limburg the SLim action - Safe Limburg. For many years there has been a systematic approach to this and I think that they are gradually having a deterrent effect. Furthermore, the priorities of local authorities may also differ. I can imagine a city or a zone with a lot of dancing looking at it differently than a rural zone. These are priorities that local authorities themselves set out. As you know, these priorities are discussed and validated at the zonal Security Council, in the presence of the judicial and administrative authorities. That is the so-called enforcement chain. They have a certain degree of autonomy to determine that. Your fifth question, when distributing the circular for the PDO campaigns, is asked to focus the actions on the more risky moments. The police zones have a fairly large autonomy in this because they can draw on their own analyses. As in previous years and this year, we can provide the overview of risk moments on the basis of the national data available. We've got that data and we're transferring it to the police zones. Then it is up to the individual chiefs of police to determine how they wish to use this information when organising their actions. I am very much in favour of asking questions in the various police colleges and municipal councils. That's already the case in my city council. It is therefore the task of local managers to ensure that this is done. Your sixth question, what is being done to increase not only the quantity but also the quality of controls? I don't really have an answer to that. Recent figures from the PDO campaign show a clearly inversely proportional relationship between the number of controls and the number of positive tests. You pointed that out, too. 217 000 tests were carried out in Flanders, of which 2.5% were positive. In Wallonia 88 500 tests were conducted, of which 3.3 % were positive, and in Brussels 15 000, of which 3.3 % were positive. The more tests are taken, the lower the number of positive tests. In the part of the answer I give you on paper, you can see the evolution. In the campaigns in Flanders from 2005-2006 to the present, there is a strongly decreasing trend in the percentage of positive tests. That's how I got to your seventh question. Despite the terrorist threat that severely burdened police capacity in January 2015, which reduced the use of the PDO campaign, we note a positive evolution in the number of positive tests. Nevertheless, special attention will have to be paid to night work in a subsequent campaign. I think I've answered most of the questions with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u99	Thank you, Minister, for your very full answer. In your answer there are some elements that I did not know, including the night checks. I think it is useful that we continue to focus on this, given the number of major accidents. There are two causes for major accidents: speeding up driving and the use of alcohol. We must therefore continue to monitor this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u100	Mr President, Minister, I have seen a number of studies that really shocked me. Everyone knows, of course, that the profession of firefighter is not an obvious profession and that firefighters have to live in dangerous conditions every day. However, the greatest danger comes from a completely different angle, namely the threat to health, which would be caused by the poor or less well-cleaned fire suits. There are several investigations. The first investigation took place in the United States. Following 9/11, all firefighters involved in the 9/11 operation were followed for years. The researchers have found that there were a lot of deaths. They then investigated how that happened. They not only looked at the fact that they were people who had experienced the 9/11 events, but also looked at the profession of firefighter. Maybe 9/11 had something to do with that high number of deaths. The researchers found that firefighters live on average less long than the rest of the population. There have been two other investigations. There has been an investigation in Denmark, where about 15,000 firefighters have been followed across several Scandinavian countries. The researchers found that there was a difference in life expectancy of eight years, which is quite a lot. There's been research after research. A number of studies have also been carried out in Belgium. In doing so, the researchers noted that one of the possible causes could be the following. When firefighters put out a fire, toxic substances are released that tie themselves to the suits. If these suits are not thoroughly cleaned, these toxic substances could attach to the skin through the suits and thus cause cancer. That's an appalling observation. That is why I have the following questions. Do the fire zones themselves or not determine how they clean the fire suits? There has also been an investigation showing the following. I know very little about matter and I'm certainly not a chemist. However, the only good cleaning would be a CO2 cleaning. Such a cleaning will of course cost a little more than other cleanings. Can we therefore not impose on all zones that much better CO2 cleaning of the suits is being used? In any case, a sensitization campaign on the issue is absolutely necessary. Finally, there is the fire reform. You know that many areas are concerned about the financing of the reform. A firefighter's life can't be underneath that. I therefore call for the necessary resources to be made available in this reform so that the local authorities can carry out this fire-fighting reform in a proper way. The first thing one will save will be material. In the light of the latest investigations, we really cannot afford to do this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u101	Mr President, Minister, I have similar questions. In the latest issue of the trade magazine De Brandweerman, firefighters are called upon to be more hygienic and to remove dangerous carcinogenic substances as soon as possible after interventions. Belgian firefighters vote to introduce a high-tech firefighter's suit more quickly. The suit, which was made in Austria, would have already been thoroughly tested by the Home Office and would be better to clean than the current suits. Unfortunately, the price wouldn't be low. The Director of General Civil Security states that the government is planning a campaign with tips to reduce the risk of cancer. I have a few questions on the subject. What safety regulations currently exist for firefighters who go to intervention? Do you have any idea of the occupational accidents in 2014 that would be due to non-compliance with safety regulations? In the future, do you provide adapted work clothes for firefighters? Is the proposed technological suit an option for this? If so, do you have any insight into the cost? For the possible purchase of these suits from the FOD, do we envisage a common purchasing programme in which the zones could register? When will the sensitization campaign start? What thematic features would be highlighted?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u102	Mr President, I am aware of the problem. I've already spoken to a number of zone commanders about it. They tell me that the greatest risk of intoxication is not carried out during the operation, but after the operation if one stays in the suits. I will answer your questions in concrete terms, because it is quite clear that action must be taken if we are to hear about this. The first question concerns safety regulations. At present, there are only safety regulations concerning the proper wearing of personal protective equipment during the various interventions. They are described in the Royal Decree of 30 August 2013 laying down the minimum standards on personal protective equipment and additional equipment made available to their operational personnel by the relief zones and pre-zones. There are no prescriptive requirements for cleaning, decontaminating and/or personal hygiene following such interventions. In accordance with the Royal Decree of 13 June 2005 on the use of personal protective equipment, the employer, in this case the zone, is responsible for adequate cleaning and, where necessary, replacement of the intervention clothing. However, the above mentioned KB refers to the modalities laid down in the manufacturer's instructions for use, which may lead to some uniformity. In its reports, the fire department always points to these common standards. We do not have information on occupational accidents in 2014 due to non-compliance with safety regulations. When we talk specifically about cancer, of course, the symptoms are only expressed much later. However, we do not have those figures for 2014. Which cleaning techniques are currently being applied? In almost all corps the intervention clothing is cleaned in washing machines using water and detergents. Reports from the fire department show that in the meantime many corps have made a catch-up in recent years and have switched to industrial washing machines with dosimeters. This made it possible to use the detergents carefully. Only in exceptional cases shall the washing process be outsourced to a specialised firm, namely the Antwerp zone and the Brussels fire department. Almost all zones have their own washing machines, fortunately mostly industrial, which only work with soap and water. I find it more worrying that the survey has shown that in most areas very limited or not even washed. For those who already regularly clean the intervention bins, we arrive at a cleaning frequency of about two to three cleaning sessions on an annual basis. I'm sure we're gonna need a change of direction here. I come to the question of whether I am considering sensitization campaigns. That goes without saying. In the meantime, I have commissioned a working group of experience experts, including the delegation of the syndicates, to be set up with the task of drawing up an appropriate standard operating procedure for cleaning and after-care in operations. This standard operating procedure will therefore be shortened to SOP. Once the working group has reached a final conclusion, it will be sent to the zones in the form of a ministerial letter. Another question was whether we are considering guidelines for decontaminating CO2. Research has shown that there is currently no company in our country that offers this service. After consultation with the sector, as we have already done, it appears that this service can be provided in three months at the earliest. We therefore need time to create even an offer in this area. In view of the hallucinatory figures on cancer and the mortality rates of the aid workers, it seems clear to me that a single directive on CO2 cleaning is insisting. But the offer has to be there. The estimated cost of decontaminating a fire suit would be €45. This cost was calculated by the laundry sector on the basis of the current purchase value of the CO2 machines, which is currently quite high. In the longer term, this cost will undoubtedly decrease and hopefully approach the current cost of EUR 35. Personally, I believe that the difference between EUR 45 and EUR 35 can be closed in a fairly short time, especially if we know that it is not yet mandatory. Cost cannot, however, be the argument not to do so. However, taking into account the procedure to be worked out, which will develop the frequency and further modalities, it is not possible at present to make an overall estimate. We are only at the beginning of implementation. I can tell you that the implementation of this procedure, which includes CO2 cleaning, will become a rule in the future. This CO2 cleaning will also have a positive effect on the lifespan of the suits, which is also nicely included, cleaning with CO2 is better for the lifespan of the suits than with water and soap. We also need to examine how much, under what conditions and within what time frame to make spare suits available. A good directive, I believe, also requires an independent PPE inspection on an annual basis. PPE stands for personal protective equipment. I therefore believe that we should also provide for a review of the procedures in this directive. I asked the experts to include these elements in the procedure to be worked out. As soon as their conclusions are in my possession, I can make an estimate in this respect. However, the process has been initiated. I come to the question of whether the necessary resources will be made available to the fire department and whether I will provide suitable work clothes. I undertake to ensure that the planned material subsidies, which amount to more than EUR 12 million for 2015, are also used to purchase the new high-quality intervention clothing and to clean it with CO2 machines. Is the technological suit an option for this? Experts have determined that the new high-tech and durable suit is the best solution for this. Does a common purchasing programme exist? We have already organised a general request for an offer, with the result that the Austrian suit is the best. It is foreseen that all zones, including the fire department of Brussels, can register. So we've done a survey. The cost of such a suit is 899 euros including VAT.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u103	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Thank you in particular for working on this directive. I think the numbers speak for themselves. If research shows that a firefighter lives eight years less, not because he died in a fire, but because his suit has not been sufficiently cleaned, it is obvious that we must act. Research shows that only 57% of PAHs, the whole of cancer processing substances, poly-aromatics, are removed. In some areas one does not even immediately clean. However, a CO2 cleaning removes 98 % of the PAHs. I think we should encourage all fire zones to do this. Another positive thing is that we will not save on this. I hope that this will be maintained in the future, because it is about human lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u104	I'm following Mrs. Temmerman. It is positive that action will be taken in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u105	Mr President, Minister, I come back to a matter on which I have asked your predecessor Mrs Milquet several times. This is the case of the Jumet cell or Polfin cell, made up of investigators seconded from several police services but also from the SPF Finances, located geographically in Jumet (the city of Charleroi) and charged with investigating politico-financial issues, with more than significant success in updating complex files also involving political agents. Following a decision to proceed with the investigation dated February 6, 2012, this cell experienced difficulties with an ongoing investigation of its members with respect to a costing issue. This investigation resulted in an order of the Chamber of the Charleroi Council of 20 November 2013 on a dismissal, which means, in other words, that the officials concerned were cleared of the charges made against them for obtaining unsubstantiated reimbursements of costs. The fees they charged were justified on the basis of the existing regulations in their service. These events have had a very serious impact on the functioning of the Unit and are being followed up with judicial information available to the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office on the investigation itself, which is, I think, still under way. You can confirm that. I would like to ask you about the outcome of this case, and in particular about the agreements that could be reached with the investigators concerned, on the basis of the November 2013 judgment on the reimbursement of their costs. As soon as they have been cleared of the charges against them, it is now a matter of paying them the sums due. On January 22, 2014, Ms.Milquet replied: "The Federal Police Legal Service analyses the content of this order, which made a great deal of noise and is well known to all. On the basis of this order, this service will have to make refunds in accordance with established practice. This service always executes judicial decisions, whatever they may be." I had come to the conclusion that very quickly an agreement could be reached with those concerned, which I would like you to confirm. That's why I'm asking you, Minister. Can you provide me with an update on the file, more than a year after my last question to Ms. Milquet? In particular, could an amicable agreement be reached with the parties concerned with respect to the reimbursement of their actual expense notes due on the basis of the November 2013 judgment? If so, in what form? If not, why? What's the status? Is a new judicial procedure under way to determine the amounts owed to the persons concerned? If so, what stage is it at? Has a lawyer's office been designated to defend the Internal FPS in this case? What is he? How much is his fee? With regard to the investigation, do you have any information on its status? Can you communicate them to me? Here are my questions, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u106	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, dated 20 November 2013, the Chamber of the Charleroi Council issued an order dismissing the case in the Polfin Jumet case. Following the issuance of this order, a meeting was held on 22 April 2014 with representatives of the federal police and members of the Polfin Jumet cell, assisted by their councils and the councils of the non-present members. The purpose of the meeting was to bring to the attention of the staff councils the solutions to find a favourable solution to this issue. Yes, an amicable agreement has been reached. The Federal Police has undertaken to regularize the undisputed liability for travel and meal allowances for the period from 1 June 2011 to November 2011, depending on the individual situation. This adjustment took place no later than 30 April 2014. Regularization has been calculated on the basis of the rules on duty travel instead of the rules on letters rogatory. This decision is also based on the order of 24 May 2012 of the Brussels Court of First Instance, following a summons issued against the Belgian State which states, inter alia, in its statement of reasons: "It follows from this that the applicant cannot rely on Form F007 for sure and that it is for him to file his claim with his hierarchy on the regulatory basis indicated to him." Form F007 concerns letters rogatory. Despite this proposal, some applicants interviewed my predecessor, Ms.Milquet, and a letter from her was sent to these applicants on May 14, 2014. As part of the proceedings currently pending before the Courts of First Instance in Brussels and Hainaut, some of these proceedings have been referred to the Courts of First Instance. A new citation was issued against the Belgian State at the end of 2014. Stibbe's law firm has been appointed to defend the interests of the Belgian State. As with fees, as with any other litigation, be reassured that the case is being handled as a good father. Finally, with regard to the inquiry into the investigation, I can tell you that the Chamber of the Council of the Court of First Instance of Brussels met on 5 February 2015 following a complaint with the formation of a civil party. However, as this procedure is in progress, I am not in a position to provide further clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u107	Minister, thank you for your answer. However, you provide me with contradictory answers. Indeed, on the one hand, you are telling me that an amicable agreement has been reached. Amicable agreement implies the agreement of both parties. On the other hand, you are telling me that a procedure concerning the amount of the costs to be reimbursed to the persons concerned is under way at the level of the court of first instance. Either there's an amicable agreement or there's a case in court. I note that there is a case in court, since you are announcing to me the identity of the office of lawyers representing the Belgian State, without informing me of the amount of its fees. The law office is relatively well known. I don't think he's working for nothing or for low amounts. I am surprised that in other cases there are no means to defend the interests of the Belgian State, but when the Belgian State defends itself against officials who have been dismissed and have been the victims of false accusations, it is surprising! Furthermore, I note that the investigation into the investigation is still under way. I'm curious to know the result. I found it very difficult to obtain satisfactory answers from Mrs Milquet on this matter. I cannot understand that there are accusations, false in this case, against sharp investigators, recognized for their work. All this created a lot of excitement and affected their ability to work. I note that the case is not settled despite an explicit judgement. I am hopeful that the arrival of another minister, who has a blank look at the issue, will be able to make sure that an agreement is reached and that a bad report is completed with regard to the persons concerned, but that it is also problematic as to the functioning of the police on the matters I have mentioned and which are essential to us. Financial matters are sometimes complex.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u108	We found this regularization, but despite this proposal, some applicants were questioned. As I understand it, some investigators have agreed to regularization, others have not. If, for many of them, we have reached an agreement, others have preferred to continue their action.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u109	Minister, thank you for that clarification. There is an amicable agreement only with some of the investigators. I don't know the substance of the disagreement. I can only say that I regret it, especially with regard to Mrs Milquet's commitment to pay the sums due. As the case is still pending, I will not decide here who is right or wrong. I simply note that I regret that a solution could not be found and that I hope that, within the limits of your ability to intervene in this type of case as Minister of the Interior, you will contribute to the end of this bad story.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u110	Minister, the police are one of the major pillars of our country's security, which is necessary when we see the tragedy that has just occurred in France. You know, like me, minister, that to enter the police, you have to meet tests, selections. Unless I'm wrong, there are five of them for the candidate agents and inspectors. If success is achieved after the five events, the candidate will be invited to start his career with police training. The basic feature of this training is that it is common to all police personnel, be it the local police or the federal police. In police jargon, training is also referred to as basic training. Basic training is organised up to three times a year in one or more police schools. Here are my questions, Minister. Have you had any contact with the various police schools? Can you provide me with the start dates of the trainings for French-speaking police schools? Can you tell me what is the time frame for a candidate between the certification of successful completion of the selection tests and entry into training? How many trainings did there take place during 2014? Have you planned for 2015? If I ask you this question, it is because, according to my sources, there would not really have been any basic training in 2014 or 2015. There are candidates waiting, and I would like clarification on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u111	Mrs Cassart, I have already had the opportunity to visit some police schools, such as the police academy in Jurbise with a delegation of trade unions in Bruges, and the Vesta campus in Antwerp, which I already knew for a long time. In addition, I am regularly made aware of the discussions held at the federal level with the various police schools. The Directorate of Federal Police Personnel regularly organizes consultations with the approved police schools and the National Police Academy in the form of a College of Police School Directors. In 2014, five colleges were held; in 2015, six colleges will be planned. At the College of Directors, federal police and police schools can discuss various topics, including recruitment and selection, training and career management. In 2015, two dates of incorporation are envisaged, notably in October and December. The time frame for the winners varies according to the timing of the selection of the chosen school and the need for winners in the various schools. For this reason, there is no fixed time limit. Of course, the procedures are well followed in order to maintain the shortest time frame. It is true that for 2015, the winners will have to wait at least a few months since the first basic training for 2015 will only begin in October. In 2014, taking into account those who have completed or started their training, 1,724 new inspectors were trained in 36 basic training sessions of the basic framework in the nine accredited police schools and in the National Police Academy. Moreover, it is always possible for an area or for several areas to take the initiative themselves to organise training in one of the schools. For example, the largest Antwerp area has, in addition to the planned training, organised its own basic training for new inspectors in Antwerp. It is always possible that one or more areas may take the initiative themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u112	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer. In fact, if I asked this question, I know people who attended this school and, after information, realized that there was no training until October 2015, as you just said. So I'll relay your information. It seems to me that the date of October is rather late: those who passed their exams at the end of 2014 wait almost a year. I guess there's an underlying reason.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u113	Minister, Secretary of State Théo Francken has expressed the wish to refuse the issue of residence permits on our territory to imams preaching Salafism, considered an ideological land of Islamist terrorism. Currently, the management of this procedure is entrusted to the Sûreté de l'Etat and is questioned by your Secretary of State. He called for screening to be carried out in the future by the OCAM – Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis – for imams from Qatar and Saudi Arabia. My questions are pretty simple. What are the elements at the disposal of the State Security or the OCAM that allow you to target these two countries? Do you also consider that the OCAM can be more able to carry out this mission? Does the OCAM currently have the means to complete it? The question arises, since the budgets of the OCAM have indeed been planed by 17 per cent in operation and 20 per cent in staff by the present government. Are additional means therefore envisaged to carry out this task if it were to be entrusted to them? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u114	Mr Kir, the security services and the OCAM do not specifically target imams from Qatar and Saudi Arabia, but are interested in any threat emanating from the activities of the radical and Salafist imams, regardless of their origin. Then I realized that the Secretary of State did not want to criticize the work of the State Security in this area. In particular, he stressed that, in the light of national and international developments, the screening of imams should be optimised. In his view, the contribution of the OCAM, which receives, as part of its mission of assessing the threat, information from the RMS regarding, for example, the international situation, would be an added value in the approach to this problem. I believe that any initiative to optimize this screening should be taken into account. Finally, with regard to the resources allocated to the OCAM, they will be evaluated in the light of budgetary control. Additional resources are requested by our security officials, of which OCAM is a member. The Prime Minister and I have already responded several times that we were aware of this request and that we were prepared to meet it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u115	Minister, thank you. You're taking your secretary of state a little bit and you're reshaping the job a little bit. He had openly targeted two countries and explained that there was a need to change service and that it was the OCAM that had to screen. You reframe it by explaining that there is no country that is more targeted than others but that a job is done in general, work that you want to optimize. Does that mean that you are going to find ways to adjust the budget for State Security?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u116	As you know, we never know what can emerge from budgetary control. I told you the position I was going to defend at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u117	Mr President, Minister, paradoxically, voices are beginning to rise against a consequence of raising the threat to level 3. My question was prior to the decision of the National Security Council on which I will have the opportunity to question the Prime Minister tomorrow in plenary. For example, the Chief of Corps of the Montgomery area in Brussels explained that the cycling brigades were no longer out and that informal contacts with the population were discouraged, in order to prevent the police being recognizable. In the same vein, our colleague Stefaan Van Hecke expressed concern in the committee about the arrest of school supervision by the local police in Destelbergen. In some communes, the chiefs of corps advise the municipal authority to close the Home function on certain days of the week, in order to comply with enhanced security measures. Without multiplying the examples, it can be recognised that there is a tension between the fulfilment of the security requirements received from the Ministry of the Interior and the maintenance of a good community police. In Liège, we try to maintain a good level of proximity. We have made the necessary investments, investments claimed by the trade unions. I have also personally wanted the use of the army in such a way as to increase the security capacity on the ground. However, investments are not always and everywhere possible. Disinvesting the land is then the easiest way to adapt. This paradox threatens the CoPPRa approach, privileged during the previous legislature, where the objective was to operate together community policing and fight against radicalism. It also reveals a contradiction with the government agreement, which announced more blue on the street. Minister, do you believe that there are ways to maintain a high level of threat? How can the security needs of police officers be reconciled with the local police? What are the government's incentives to reconcile these two aspects? What assistance has the government provided to local police in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u118	Mrs. Ben Hamou is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u119	Mr President, Mr Demeyer, it is our duty to protect all the citizens of this country as best as possible. That is why we have taken steps in radicalism following the analysis of the competent service, the OCAM, and we have found the necessary measures and means. I will come back later to the community policing missions. The instructions we have given are a means of achieving this objective. We have only taken internal measures at the level of the police services, with a view to increasing the possibility of police implementation. As I said in plenary, police vacations are likely to be postponed. The government also called on Defence support for "static" protection tasks, with the police in support. Thus, we free up capacity at the police level, in order to be more effective. Due to differences at the local level, we use two lists, one applicable to all areas and the other subject to an assessment of the appropriateness and proportionality of the local police. For security reasons, I cannot communicate to you the measures imposed in case of alert level 3. Several instructions were given to the various police forces following the triggering of alert level 3. A first list of instructions must be followed in the case of Level 3. It is mandatory and applicable to all Belgian police services. There is also a second list of instructions, with local police forces being free to select and implement the measures which they consider proportional. It is therefore up to the mayor of the commune and the local chief of staff to determine which measures from the second list will be implemented. For security reasons vis-à-vis all police officers, I cannot specify the exact content of the instructions on these two lists. For the proximity of the local police, you must go to your local administration. To do so, please contact the mayor. I can repeat my answer to another oral question asked to me. The way in which the police act through these specific measures due to the threat of terrorism demonstrates the flexibility they must demonstrate. I am satisfied that basic service is provided, even in times of threat at level 3. The less urgent tasks are then left to the advantage of the priority tasks. In any case, the basic service is guaranteed in our police areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u120	Mr President, Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u121	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Peel's 2126 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u122	Mr President, Minister, as you know, the Act of 31 December 1963 establishing 250 regional fire departments (84 of which were in Wallonia) was amended in 2007. This reform, only in force from 2015, completely changes the basic scheme. Indeed, the operation of the fire services will be based on zonal structures, with much larger territory than originally planned. There will be 34 rescue zones throughout the country, 14 of which will be in Wallonia. The aim of this reform is in particular to offer better service to citizens, to reduce costs, I hope, and to pool as many services as possible. In terms of services, some relief areas offer much more specific services than others. This is the case, in particular, for frogmen, but I could cite other examples. However, in case of need, the emergency zone without specific services may use an area with such services or civil protection. The problem is that if all emergency areas without specific services are to rely on civil protection, it is necessary to ensure that civil protection is able to take over everything and thus avoid overflowing in the event of an emergency. I must admit that I am concerned about the subject of conventions with civil protection. Indeed, given the number of current areas, these agreements, sometimes free of charge – as has already been mentioned in a previous committee – will, in my view, strengthen civil protection and prevent mergers or contracts between zones. This is due to the fact that some areas can remain in derisory budgets, keep control of local firefighters and find all possible solutions to stay in this situation. In this regard, Minister, I would like to ask you a few questions. Can you tell me whether emergency areas without specific services must sign agreements with other areas or whether this is not necessary? If they do not now sign a convention with other areas, do they have to sign a convention with civil protection? Is that so essential? If all emergency areas use civil protection, can you make sure that it will be able to carry out its entire mission? Have you met with the officials in charge of the various zones or civil protection? What does it show? What about the payment? I assume that the areas that benefit from civil protection will have to bear the cost, or not? I would like clarification on these issues. Even I who are part of a small area and who will be ready, with my commune, at the beginning of July, these questions question me. If an area like ours can do a lot of services, our cost is obviously higher. At that price, I have no problem signing a convention with civil protection, but we should all be on an equal footing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u123	Mr President, Mrs Cassart, with regard to your first two questions, the Royal Decree of 10 June 2014 determining the tasks and tasks of civil security carried out by the relief zones and the operational units of civil protection allocates, on the one hand, the tasks which fall within the competence of the relief zones and, on the other hand, the tasks which fall exclusively within the scope of civil protection. Agreements must be concluded by an area with another area or with civil protection where the execution of the tasks entrusted to that area requires the means it does not have. If a rescue zone finds that it does not have the means to carry out its missions, it can reach an agreement with another area or with civil security. As far as your third question is concerned, civil protection will take place in accordance with the arrangements laid down in the cooperation agreement and according to the means and staff available. In an extraordinary and highly unlikely situation in which all emergency areas would appeal at the same time to civil protection, I should trigger the federal phase of federal crisis management. In this case, the provisions of the Royal Decree of 16 February 2006 would determine where and how many resources and personnel should be engaged. With regard to your fourth question, the heads of civil protection operational units are currently visiting the relief areas to meet officials and negotiate collaborative agreements. One agreement has already been concluded with the Luxembourg relief zone, another is in the process of being concluded with the West Flanders relief zone 1 and others are being finalized. As far as your last question is concerned, as regards the cost of civil protection intervention, in principle only consumables are charged to the emergency zone. However, if civil protection provides the first fire departure in place of the relief zone, a lump sum will be claimed from the relief zone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u124	I thank the minister for his answers. My first thought is about civil protection and cost. If they go to a fire, it's just a flat fee. On the other hand, if it is for other services, a tariff will have to be put in place at some point in time. I'm bringing a single flat to the answers you gave me, and I've already talked about it. You have areas that will offer an important service and the cost will be high. Next to that, you will have other areas, without all these services, that will use civil protection at some point. A drift is therefore foreseeable. Soon, many areas will say that it is over, that they give up specific services, so as to lower the cost, although there are risks. I wanted to let you know. Mr President, you said that in this committee, once a quarter or every two months, there would be a special commission on fire zones; this idea must be put on the agenda. This drift will occur quickly. I know of areas that have little service but have no desire to conclude agreements because they don't want to pay. They say they will turn to civil protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Cassart-Mailleux. We will resume the order of business in two weeks' time in order to settle what revolves around the fire zones and the reforms on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u126	Minister, I have a question on a subject on which we have already discussed a number of times in this committee, including when discussing the policy paper, in particular the outsourcing of police duties, the task force. Last Thursday, on a study day in Ghent on the future of the police, you noted that by the end of this month, at the beginning of March, you would like to come to Parliament with your first text on the core tasks of the police. That's why I have a follow-up question here. What is the status of the work of the working group? Have the core tasks been listed in the meantime? When will that list be available to us? Do you stick to the timing I have just mentioned?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u127	Mr President, Minister, the caretaker sector represents around 15 000 workers in Belgium and a turnover of more or less 700 million euros. It is an extremely competitive and difficult sector to regulate. It is an euphemism to say that the attention of customers does not always focus on compliance with the collective labour agreements of Joint Committee 317 or on possession of compulsory authorizations or insurance guarantees. On the contrary, price often determines the choice of service providers alone, so that service providers are obliged, in order to maintain their economic position or conquer markets, to develop strategies for lowering wage standards. In its White Paper on Best Custody Value, the APEG refers to the introduction of a quality label, namely the APEG Secure Quality to counter this trend, and provides quality advice to the customer and recommendations on pricing for companies. These good intentions are, however, insufficient to effectively counter downward pressure on prices. Workers face this pressure and struggle to oppose it. Guardianship is therefore a very critical sector in terms of social dumping. Minister, the privatisation of entire parts of the public service of the police is included in the government agreement. The working group on key tasks of the police is currently meeting. In the debate on the kerntaken in the House during the previous legislature, the trade unions have clearly expressed the following concern: if you transfer powers, make sure that this does not lead to social dumping and endangering the physical and material safety of workers! How is this concern reflected in the work currently being carried out? Are trade union organisations consulted? Do you work in cooperation with the offices of the Minister of Employment and the Secretary of State for the Fight against Social Fraud? Will regulatory action be taken? Are you considering enhanced monitoring of compliance with regulations through the Social Inspectorate and the Directorate-General for Security and Prevention? If so, with what budgets?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u128	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, as I said in Ghent and in this committee on the key tasks debate, is that the task force that first met on 18 December 2014 should submit a report at the end of February. Then we will start with a round of consultations from other stakeholders in this debate. For example, I am thinking of the Association of Flemish Cities and Municipalities and the syndicated partners. It's my ambition to get the case on the government table before the summer. Then I can come to Parliament. This is the timing I've always set out for. Mr Demeyer, as regards the approach to infringements of social legislation in the caretaker sector, for specific information, I refer you to my colleagues in charge of employment and the fight against tax fraud. The working group that is currently examining core missions is examining police tasks that are essential and those that are not. It will then be necessary to examine who will eventually be asked to perform tasks that are not essential, because they do not necessarily require the exercise of policing skills. Custody companies are one of the possible avenues. For the time being, the caretaker sector is experiencing falling price competition, which may have an impact on the quality of the services provided. The Secure Quality GPA applies only to the members of this professional association and only a small minority of the total number of licensed babysitting companies is affiliated with the GPA. My administration is preparing an implementing order, which sets the minimum standards that a caretaker must meet in order to be authorized. These standards have not been changed in the last 20 years. Their updating will have a positive impact on the quality of services. Since last year, it has been possible to withdraw a company's authorisation in the event of social or tax debts. In practice, this measure is a means of exerting pressure on companies to pay their social and tax debts. When circumstances permit, my administration is working with other inspection services to ensure control of the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u129	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u130	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u131	Questions Nos 2186 and 2188 by Mrs Ben Hamou have been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u132	Mr President, Minister, following the events that everyone is experiencing, the OCAM decided on 15 January last to raise the level of terrorist alert to 3 on the scale of 1 to 4, that is to say to a serious level. This decision and immediate responsibility are obviously to be welcomed, given the threats to our country and, in particular, to police stations and judicial institutions. This decision involves a series of additional security measures such as the special closure of certain police stations, the establishment of security perimeters in front of police stations and certain public administrative buildings, the change of certain weapons, the replacement of police equipment or the doubling of patrolling personnel. For many years, we have been aware that the terrorist threat is growing in our country as elsewhere in Europe. In recent years, we have also had to deal with new phenomena, such as turning back, which forces us to adapt our responses, our devices and the security of the population. That is why I am pleased to see the army supporting the police forces in particular, considering the nature of terrorist threats and their weapons. Of course, all that said, we must address the capacity of the operational and legitimately ask ourselves whether we can take these necessary measures, how and how long. I would therefore like to ask you several questions on two aspects, a rather material and human aspect and a financial aspect. As regards the material aspect, in relation to the rotation of police and military personnel, how many people must be counted to meet the current level 3? Have there been any lessons learned from the deployment of military personnel at this time? Is there any benefit in the deployment of police officers? Little parenthesis on this subject - I have just seen the statement, I think it is to Huy - of a Chief of Corps who is very pleased since the presence of the military allows him to release men for other missions. So this has already had a positive impact apparently in some police areas, and I think it is to be welcomed. I also wanted to ask the question of the possible negative aspect. Are there any drawbacks? For example, will the federal reserve be maintained at its level or will it undermine the operational capacity of the federal reserve? I would like to have a comment on this from you. This is then the financial means. It is necessary to anticipate them, in order to avoid being caught short. We know from government statements that military salaries will be borne by the Defence and that the additional costs will be borne by the federal police. I would like to ask you to reassure us that this will not affect the means available to the zonal police. If I ask you with insistence, it is because we have lived, in a not so distant past, an unpleasant experience with Copernicus. You know the problem. Your predecessor had assured that the 2009 and 2010 bonuses would be paid by the federal police. We have just seen a few weeks ago that this would undermine the means available to the zonal police. That is why I would like you to confirm that the premiums paid to the military will be borne by the federal police. In short, it is a matter of appeasement, in view of a situation which is already not financially easy. But, all of this, you know it very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u133	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. To answer the first, we will have a more concrete view as soon as the first invoices are sent to us by the army. I have already answered another question this afternoon and communicated the estimated amounts for the first two weeks. I no longer have the exact figures in memory, but it is in the order of 640,000 euros, of which about 520,000 for staff and the balance for the use of the equipment. It goes without saying that their help is more than valuable and that it will have enabled the police services – you confirmed it – to reorient their own police duties, both on weekdays and on weekends, nights, 24 hours a day. I assume your second question is about the benefits paid by the military. In this regard, I can reassure you and refer to the protocol which has been concluded and which provides for the assumption by the Interior of the variable costs associated with the reinforcement of the military. These are night hours, during weekends and overtime. If, on the other hand, you refer to the services provided by the local police, there will be no source of funding other than that available. I am therefore very clear that the fixed costs of the military are for Defence and the variable costs for the federal police budget, at threat level 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u134	Minister, thank you for your full and clear response. I would like to ask you a further question about the consultations with the Regions. We hear various statements from the Regions on what is being put in place. Are you really in consultation, particularly with the Brussels Region and with the Minister-President, given the transfer of certain powers? Are operations coordinated?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u135	Yes, a meeting is planned with the minister-president and the 19 mayors. With the possible contribution of the Regions, efforts are currently being made mainly by the integrated police services and by the Defence. I have not had a proposal for a financial contribution from the Regions. However, I have learned that each Region and each Community takes responsibility for preventive action.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u136	Mr. President, Minister, unfortunately, the Walloon Brabant is currently the only province that does not have its centre 112. This poses a lot of organizational problems since depending on where you are located, you come across different centers 112. Some municipalities in the West of Walloon Brabant such as Tubize, Braine-l'Alleud, Braine-le-Château, Waterloo, La Hulpe and Lasne depend on Brussels, while the municipalities of Orp-Jauche and Hélecine depend on Liège. The other municipalities of Walloon Brabant are covered by centre 112 of Mons. This is a temporary situation, but it has been going on for years! We are promised a 112 centre, a location was planned in Wavre, on the premises of the old post, but unfortunately nothing is still to be seen, even though recruitment has already taken place. Minister, can you give us an idea of the timetable and tell us when the Walloon Brabant will finally have its center 112?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u137	Mr Crusnière, thank you for this question, because as soon as yesterday I visited the Federal Police Centre in Nivelles. I was asked the same question. In Wavre, everything is in order, the technique works well, etc. However, agents are placed in Brussels and Namur, while they are planned for the Walloon Brabant. I replied that it was normal for the latter to also have a 112 centre. There's no discussion about that. In addition, there are still seven collaborators to be able to organize this service in Wavre. They must therefore still be recruited to complete the framework. A new selection procedure has been under way since the end of November. You know that it always depends on the number of candidates. Once recruited, a minimum of six months will be required to acquire the necessary operational knowledge. So, in mid-2016, the center will be operational in Walloon Brabant.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u138	Minister, it's been over a year. You're talking about six months of training. The equipment is ready and available. I thought there was still work going on and that this was more a technical problem than a staff one. This delay is therefore very long. Is it not possible to reduce the number of staff at other centres by one staff member 112? The province has existed for 20 years. Governor Marie-Josée Laloy had made this one of her priorities. In short, this delay is really amazing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u139	Mr President, Minister, I would like to question you following an article in the press last January concerning the equipment made available to the police officers of the Nivelles-Genappe area, whom you visited yesterday, when they came to guarantee security at the Nivelles courthouse. Six police officers from the Nivelles-Genappe Police Area are assigned to this task on a daily basis. However, the equipment available to them has been reduced as a result of budgetary restrictions in the Ministries of Justice and the Interior. For example, these agents now have only two bulletproof vests. According to the article, every day, a draw must be made to determine who will wear the bulletproof vest. This is quite surprising, if not unacceptable in the current context. I suspect you had a long conversation yesterday with the mayor, the dirco and the head of the Nivelles-Genappe police zone. Minister, do you find it normal for people whose profession is to maintain public order, in some cases at the risk of their lives, to be obliged to exercise their profession under such conditions? Have you taken any steps to remedy this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u140	Mr President, my colleague, the equipment of local police officers is the responsibility of the local authorities. In addition, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the federal authority has ensured that all candidates who have completed their studies and who have been assigned to an area are fully equipped, including a bulletproof vest, all funded by the federal authority. With regard to possible past failures, the respective employers are, in accordance with the Welfare Act, responsible. I recommend that everyone take this into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u141	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. In the latter's eyes, I'll call the mayor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u142	Mr. President, Minister, The Last Hour of February 4th announced that a forty-year-old man had been found hanging with his shirt around 11:30 in a degreasing cell at the Anderlecht Central Police Station, located on Demosthenes Street, where he had been driven earlier for public drunkenness. His condition was most critical when the rescues intervened. Internal control went down on the spot. According to the spokesman of the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office, the first results of the investigation describe the following sequence. The man of African origin presented himself to the police station for the declaration of a robbery. Since this person's behaviour and attitude did not allow him to take his statement, he was deprived of his administrative liberty and placed in a cell. At approximately 11.30 a.m., the police found that this person had attempted to hang himself in the cell. She was transferred urgently to the hospital and her days are in danger. Then the lab and the prosecution went down to the scene. The medical examiner was also requisitioned. It follows from the initial findings that no third party intervention has taken place. In accordance with the usual procedures, two cases are opened as a result of the facts. A first investigation was initiated into the circumstances of the tragedy, and a second was conducted by the police internal control service. Unfortunately, the victim, Dieumerci Kanda, died in the hospital and the funeral was organized by the deceased's family this week. Minister, can you give us more information on the circumstances of the tragedy? When will the first results of the survey be available? Can you tell us what measures the police have put in place to prevent this kind of tragedy from happening again in the future? In view of the situations experienced in the past and without wishing to anticipate the results of the survey, what about the willingness to further secure the cells? If human error is not entirely to be called into question in this case, what is foreseen at the level of psychological accompaniment of the family of the deceased, knowing that he also participates in the safety of persons?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u143	Mr President, Mr Kir, the police services must scrupulously comply with certain directives in the context of housing and the treatment of persons deprived of their liberty. Articles 31 to 33 of the Police Function Act provide for the execution of police services following detention and imprisonment, as well as the rights of persons deprived of their liberty. In addition, there are a number of guidelines on the infrastructure to be complied with, which must comply with minimum standards, the establishment and use of places of detention used by the police services, as defined in the Royal Decree of 4 September 2007. Since a judicial investigation and an investigation by the internal control department are under way, you will understand that I am not taking any comments. I will come back to that as soon as these investigations are completed to discuss it: it is clear that certain behaviours are regrettable. As for the psychological support of the family facing such a painful situation, the family is assisted by a person responsible for the reception of victims and specially trained for this purpose. Care for psychological assistance is also one of the basic features of the local police area. As far as the substance of your question is concerned, I suggest that you come back to it when the investigations are completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic088x.u144	Mr President, of course I understand the minister's caution. We are dealing with an ongoing investigation at the prosecutorial level and an internal investigation. Minister, I will therefore come back to this issue in the coming weeks or months.
