ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u1	A statement from the Secretary of Defense will follow. I propose that we make this a mini-actual debate and that the questions put by Mr Dallemagne and Mr Yüksel are also linked to this, since they concern Belgium's support for France. I propose that Open Vld and MR, who have not submitted any questions, should be able to join and ask questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning's Council of Ministers confirmed the decision of the Council of Ministers of 30 October 2015. The frigate Leopold I will be used as escort of the aircraft carrier Charles de Gaulle within the groupe aéronaval. The bloody terrorist attacks in Paris on Friday 13 November fundamentally changed the situation initially foreseen by the decision of 30 October. France has stepped up its fight against Daesh in response to the cowardly attacks. The French actions fall within their right to self-defense. It cannot therefore be excluded that France will launch additional air operations from the Charles de Gaulle. At the EU Council of 17 November, the French Minister for Defence, Jean-Yves Le Drian, activated Article 42.7 of the Treaty of Lisbon. It has launched a call for Member States to provide maximum support in the bilateral framework. Mrs Mogherini and the entire Council agreed. I can tell you that each individual country has offered to help where it can. We regard the use of the Leopold I as an immediate and concrete interpretation by Belgium of this request for assistance. The escort mission is clearly a purely defensive task and therefore does not involve the intervention of our own troops in or above Syrian territory. It is also important to mention that Belgium continues to argue, in particular the Foreign Minister and myself, for a real mandate from the UN or an international coalition to allow possible military intervention in Syria. Here are some explanations of the evolution of the mission: at the end of July this year, France expressed its wish to intensify cooperation with Belgium in the maritime field. In this context, the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces has proposed to his Belgian counterpart to integrate a Belgian navy ship into an avalaval group comprising among other things the aircraft carrier Charles de Gaulle. The Council of Ministers of 30 October approved the participation of the Leopold I in this groupe aéronaval, according to this initial demand. This morning's Council of Ministers confirmed that Leopold 1st would escort the French aircraft carrier Charles de Gaulle from today until the beginning of January 2016. Its crew consists of approximately 150 military personnel. Both the crew and the ship are ready for the assigned mission. The gross cost of this operation is estimated at EUR 10 million, which is fully in line with the initial operational budget. This is, for the time being, a purely defensive mission. The ships which constitute the escort of the Charles de Gaulle ensure the safety of navigation and the operations of the carrier and its aircraft group. The mission of the Leopold 1st will be to detect and identify possible underwater, surface or aerial threats approaching the aircraft carrier. In the event of a clear threat, Leopold 1 may have to use force, in accordance with the rules of engagement you will understand that they are confidential. Staff shall be deployed in the operational operational mode, deployed outside the deployment zone. I'll answer any questions I can later. I can also confirm that we have asked the President of the Commission for the follow-up of the foreign missions to quickly convene a committee to provide more technical and substantive details behind closed doors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u3	Madam President, Minister, as we have now become accustomed, we have learned through the press that the government has entrusted the national navy - Leopold 1st - with a new escort mission for the Charles de Gaulle aircraft carrier. Despite the imminent start of this operation, Parliament was not really informed of the contours of the operation. I don't want to argue. I give a position here. Another habit is related to the frequency of meetings of this commission. There are far too few. Some oral questions are sometimes several months old and have not yet been dealt with when they concern important issues. Personally, I had already asked questions about our engagement in Syria. Since we are a great democracy, having a measured debate with perhaps different points of view is no problem. We are not forced to fall into controversy, but I think it is essential that we, between the majority and the opposition, be able to debate a number of points, particularly when it comes to military intervention. We had also made a request for a joint Defence-International Relations meeting because I believe that beyond the security discourse that I can understand, it seems to me that a comprehensive approach would allow us to nuance things. And I am not saying that we should not intervene militarily in Syria; I have no concern about that. We are currently in a form of hysteria and paranoia that is well maintained by some people, and we all know that military intervention alone is not enough, even if Daesh is destroyed. If we do not also deal with other aspects such as impoverishment, training and social integration of suffering populations, other people will take over instead of Daesh. We cannot therefore be content with an exclusively military debate. I wanted to stress that. We must not repeat the same mistakes as the Bush administration because we must recognize that today we are paying for a military intervention in the early 2000s that had no strategic political vision and, if Daesh has made progress in Syria, Iraq and Libya, it is because at some point there has been a collapse of the state structures that existed in those countries. Since you have already answered a number of questions, particularly in terms of the budget and the contours of the mission – if I understood it purely defensively – Mr.Minister, I would just like to know if you believe that this new mission falls within the clear framework of the resolution adopted by the House on 26 September 2014. How do you explain that the House has not been informed a priori of this decision, even in the Military Operations Monitoring Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u4	Madam President, Minister, you remember that just ten days ago, in a closed committee, I asked you the question of the rules of engagement for Leopold 1er. We were far from doubting the horrors that were to take place a few days later in Paris. You know my obsession with Daesh. I am one of the few colleagues here to come back every time to Daesh's causes to fight them better. You will never be able to fail us, on the Green side, in the will to fight against these terrorists. Of course, the situation has changed with the attacks in Paris. Today, Daesh, our enemy since the intervention in Iraq of six Belgian F-16s, far from being weakened, is able to reach our populations in the heart of Europe, and above all, more worryingly, to recruit eight young people born and raised in Europe. That's the new deal. You know my justified obsession with the cause of this conflict, both in Iraq and in Syria: it is the Sunni problem. Today, before we take a decision as serious as going to war again, we ask two questions. First, how does a sectarian terrorist group manage to make eight young people raised in Europe want to end their lives by using an explosive belt in Paris? Secondly, what powerful narrative did Daesh's terrorists manage to write in order to make our young people fanatic? There is a question: won't an umpteenth military intervention in the region fuel Daesh's propaganda? This proved ineffective in the case of Iraq. As we have seen, this has not diminished Daesh's strength either on the military level or above all on the symbolic and political level. Daesh says, "Look, you Sunni Arabs are the victims of a Crusader plot." I quote them, unfortunately. I obviously do not share that view. But we come to the story of Daesh for years to these young fanatics: "Sunnis are victims of a plot of crusaders"; namely that there will be a coalition of Russians, Americans and Western Europeans against "Sunnis". The question to be asked is efficiency. I would like to recall that the actions taken by the Americans in the aftermath of the September 11 attacks, fifteen years ago, led the Americans, quite logically at the time, to retaliate against the Taliban who were hosting Osama Bin Laden, in the mountains, on the border with Pakistan. At the time, everyone found it normal for us to avenge the attacks in New York, as everyone now finds it normal for us to intervene to avenge the attacks in Paris. I would just like to point out that the United States is still in Afghanistan 15 years later and that the Taliban are still there too. Before making the decision to put the finger in the gear, one must think about the military, diplomatic, political and intelligence actions that have worked and those that have not worked. Minister, yes, I am extremely troubled today. I am not against war a priori but I wonder. Are we going to put our finger in the gear now? With what consequences for later? If the consequence is to increase the strike force of our enemies and the attraction force, especially for our young people, in our neighbourhoods, then we really need to reconsider our position.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u5	Mr Minister, it is true that you do not always come to Parliament, but I am glad that this time you have come quite quickly since the Council of Ministers has just concluded. I think it is important to have this debate because, indeed, following these terrifying attacks in Paris, important strategic developments are taking place and some concern us. I believe that the best way to stand in solidarity with France today is to stand by it, as it demands through the activation of Article 42.7 of the Treaty of the European Union, which is a binding article, even more binding than Article 5 of the NATO Treaty. Belgium is right to be present, of course, because it is a party and in particular because it has responsibilities in the evolution of this conflict. Today we know how much Belgium plays a role in sending jihadists to the field, jihadists from here who terrorize local populations and who make up the most motivated troops on the ground compared to Sunni Arab fighters linked by their clans and families. Foreign fighters are the most motivated and come to terrorize and sponsor attacks in our country. It should also be stressed that there is a political and strategic context that has just evolved. I think this is the first time since the Second World War that Russians and Americans have been allies in a military operation. This situation has been unprecedented for 70 years. This is an extremely important element. We have in fact moved from a global threat to a direct attack on both Russia, which finally realized that its primary enemy was our enemy, the Islamic State; both against Lebanon, both against Egypt - since the attack on Russia is also an attack on Egypt - and against Europe and France in particular. We know that we too could be subjected to such attacks. I therefore welcome the fact that Belgium is associated with France and with a very broad international coalition. It is understood that many Arab countries also support this coalition today. I think they must be at the forefront of such a coalition. It must be part of a political strategy and I welcome the last two meetings, the Vienna meeting and the G20, which are outlining what could be a political solution, because all of this can only be part of a political framework. The lesson to be learned from previous failures in Libya and Iraq is that there was no political strategy in support of a military operation. I do not believe that any military intervention is effective. I totally disagree with my colleague from Ecolo. It has been seen that Kobane and Sinjar were able to be recaptured through coalition interventions. Of course, we need a joint with troops on the ground. This is what is missing today in Syria in most cases. It is clear that we must be able to intervene and recover this territory from these terrorists. It is unbearable that the international community has allowed the development of a terrorist territory that is intended to terrorize the entire planet. On the other hand, Belgium's position is ambiguous because the Leopold 1st is of course a link in an offensive chain. It is said that it is a defensive element; it is one of the elements that allows Charles de Gaulle to carry out offensive strikes. So it's part of an offensive chain and I think it's better to say things clearly. We must avoid pretending that we are not directly associated with what is going to happen on the ground in Syria. Of course, the ideal is for the Security Council to adopt a resolution. We all hope that the new political climate will allow this in the coming days and that this text will have two parts: political and military. You said it yourself: we are in a state of self-defence, since we were directly attacked. These are people with a Belgian passport, who left here to join Syria. We have all seen him, including our children: they threaten places such as schools and hospitals. If we do not get this resolution from the Security Council, we are right to recall the legal basis of Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations. I would like to see full clarity in this regard. We joined an offensive operation. France will triple its strike force, as it will have 36 aircraft in the theatre of operations. Another aspect seems important to me. What are the sequels? You didn't mention it. Leopold 1st will be there until the beginning of January. You mentioned contacts with France, but what are the other proposals that Belgium is submitting for a diplomatic and military operation in northern Iraq, Syria and neighbouring countries? In addition, we know that the Islamic State has considerable resources, as it boasts a budget of more than $2 billion and profits of more than $2,100 million. These resources are derived, inter alia, from oil. At the military level, are we going to try to control borders and financial resources through strikes? It is clear that the Islamic State is extremely determined. I saw that the government had raised the level of the threat. What, in your opinion, are the risks taken by Belgium in connection with such an operation? We know that this organization is particularly targeted at those countries that have engaged in this intervention. What are the protective measures? What measures will be taken in general in relation to this threat, which also weighs on our territory, since Defence is also engaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u6	Mr Minister, France and enlargement affected the West and the whole world last Friday by barbarians. Daesh is the common enemy of the West, of the Muslim world, of all continents and of all countries. A global strategy is therefore necessary. The government has always said that only a military approach will never suffice, but that diplomatic efforts must also be made and a political strategy must be put in place to make progress in the conflict. Our group therefore calls for all these avenues to be dealt with and for you, as Minister of Defence, to use the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister all the contacts and fora to be able to take concrete steps in the fight against Daesh. You announced last week, together with the Prime Minister, at the frigate Leopold I himself, that it will participate in a preventive mission today you call it a defensive mission to escort the ship Charles de Gaulle. What is the exact mission of the frigate Leopold I? The decision to deploy the frigate to escort the ship Charles de Gaulle was taken before the attacks of Paris. Will the mission remain unchanged in the aftermath of the attacks in Paris and the military actions carried out by France, in Syria? Paris would also provide certain specifications on the contract over time and on the basis of the situation on the ground. Do you have any new and concrete information on this? The situation has changed considerably in the meantime, Minister. France is at war with Daesh. All means are deployed to combat IS. You said last week you'd wait and see, but if there were any questions, you'd look into it. Yesterday there was a meeting of the Foreign Ministers which supported a very specific question. At present there is no international and clear mandate for a military operation in Syria; I am referring to a UN Security Council resolution. We think there's a need for that. When we escort the Charles de Gaulle, who is bombing Syria and targets of IS, and when French planes are bombing Raqqa, what is our position, in what story do we participate in? You say it's a defensive mission. Minister, the attacks in Paris were claimed by IS, which gives up the French bombing of Syrian targets. If we are involved in a military operation, a military intervention, are you not afraid that ISIS will retaliate against Belgian targets abroad and for attacks or incidents on our territory? Are we sufficiently prepared politically, politically and militaryly? Minister, is an international mandate to act in Syria a requirement for you? Finally, in relation to the political and diplomatic solution, there has also been a conference in Vienna on Syria. So there is talk, and I think that is good, but concrete results are still lacking. Do you have any specific information on this, Minister? Of course, the Foreign Minister is more closely involved, but perhaps you have information from your contacts with your colleagues in the defence sector, because there has also been a NATO meeting. Are there any concrete steps to be expected? I'd like to conclude with the following suggestion. The frigate Leopold I will participate in a defensive mission until January. I hope that, if the situation changes, you will come to Parliament immediately and quickly to inform us of the changed situation. I think we should follow the situation around the frigate Leopold I day after day. Our committee and Parliament must be sufficiently involved in this. [[The sound of a mobile phone resounds]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u7	We're gonna suspend the meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u8	Minister, I have one more question. The threat level was raised, from level 2 to level 3. What does that mean for military deployment? In the meantime, we know that 520 soldiers are being deployed to guard strategic positions. Are there any other measures being taken by the Defense Department?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u9	Mr President, in view of the current circumstances and developments in the last week, I naturally understand the assistance of the Leopold I frigate in the aircraft carrier Charles de Gaulle and the measure proposed by the Council of Ministers. However, the current crisis situation is leading to a kind of tunnel vision. We are committed to measures which have an influence or effect in the short term. I am not expressing my opinion on the short-term positive or negative outcome, but we must also bear in mind the longer-term complications. The support for your plea for obtaining a UN mandate will probably never have been so great, given the meeting of a number of members of the UN Security Council, namely Russia, the United States, Great Britain and France, even before the attacks, to arrive at a mandate for intervention in Syria. I call for a commitment to a UN mandate. Pleading for a UN mandate for armed intervention in Syria is one thing, but there is also a need for a greater political solution. The circumstances today mean that we have to look far beyond the next few weeks or months. We must learn from all our interventions in recent years. Let me list them: Libya, Iraq and Afghanistan. The situation there today is not what we wanted. The time has come to plead internationally for a long-term UN mandate, not just in the short term, with a view to real peace, not only in Syria but in all the surrounding countries. I do not agree with your chairman, who is mayor in Antwerp. He said yesterday in an interview: 'We can go to war' but if we are to intervene in the military, we must know what comes next. He confirmed my intervention here or the other way around. At last, he has the light of day to seek a much greater political solution in that area. With regard to the escort of the Leopold I, I understand that there is a defensive mission, in particular to accompany the aircraft carrier Charles de Gaulle. You explain that as a defensive mission. I would have liked to know the precise decision taken by the Council of Ministers this morning. You have said that it cannot be ruled out that France is bombing Syria from the Charles de Gaulle. Is this part of the decision or not? If this is the case, I wonder if this is still a defensive mission. Shouldn't we make a new decision? I also understand that a meeting of the Defence Ministers took place yesterday. In several press articles it was stated that France asked a number of questions to its partners. Belgium has also been asked for guidance from the Charles de Gaulle. Were any other questions put to us outside the military aspect, for example with regard to border surveillance? Were those questions asked to other partners? What questions have been asked and what deadline should they be filled in? Finally, I come to the situation in Belgium itself. The threat level was raised to level 3. We have already heard the message of the 520 military forces. Are there any other measures that affect the defense? My final question concerns the investigations and interventions that are being carried out following the attacks in Paris and which have a link with Belgium. Have orders been given or additional cases requested from the military intelligence service ADIV?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u10	Madam President, Minister, the attacks in Paris have fundamentally changed the context. Those terrorist attacks were nothing to be afraid of. It would not be correct to say that IS has shifted its field of action abroad, because it has been doing so effectively for a while. Think of Beirut or Egypt. But now they are hitting the heart of Europe, very close and very brutal. We have always had two objections in the past to ill-thought-out military interventions. The first objection was international law. What's the mandate? We have insisted on a UN mandate and continue to do so. I think it is important to work with as many countries as possible, and certainly with the great powers. France's right to self-defense is, of course, legitimate. Nevertheless, there is also a lot of legal discussion on this issue. In the Netherlands, the debate is very far-reaching and there have been parliamentary letters between the government and Parliament to explore exactly what that right to self-defense means. One of the issues on which there is consensus is that, before using the right to self-defense on its own, a country should first go to the UN Security Council to try to get a collective mandate out of the fire. So much for my introductory remarks. I want to talk about three things. Firstly, security is our priority. ISIS is clearly the enemy. We must take out IS, but I would like to call for a moment to think about how we do it best. That will be a military part, but anyone who thinks this is enough is naive. There is no military quick fix. We've had that illusion in the past with Al-Qaeda and then IS came. If we do this again unthinkingly, who will be next? All the more so because there is now a very fragile political agreement for Syria as the Russians are at the table, which is not to be underestimated in terms of progress because it is an important step in the political process. It is crucial for us that any military action does not brutalise this fragile political agreement or this fragile diplomatic progress. Mr Minister, do the current actions of France and Belgium fall within that political diplomatic process? Are the countries that are now at the table aware of these actions and accept them? If they were to oppose it or if the protest against self-righteous military action were to increase, we would have a major problem, because then we would have to start from scratch again. However, a UN resolution is certainly one of the possibilities, and we must not lose that opportunity. Secondly, I also think it is very important that it does not become a crusade of the West against the Muslim world. We must avoid this image, because it is the dreamed recruitment basis for Muslim extremistism to put that image clearly on the market. The involvement of Islamic countries in that region therefore seems very important to me for the acceptance and credibility of any action we take. We have made many mistakes in the past, as in Iraq in 2003 and Afghanistan. As a reminder, the fact that we are now dealing with IS is largely the result of our action in Iraq. We have allowed a Shia government to settle there, with the approval of the Americans. The Sunnis were discriminated against and radicalized to IS, of course with partial involvement of Saudi Arabia. Nevertheless, I believe that this is a rudimentary sketch of the situation. It would be crazy to make those mistakes over and over again. Without a good political strategy, we will only exacerbate the problems. I find it strange that in recent days many experts in the press have actually stated that we have done things wrong in Iraq and Afghanistan. I do not want to be too flattered on our party political hat, but Green was one of the parties that warned here years ago, together with the Socialists, about the mistakes that were made in Afghanistan. The majority parties did not want to follow us in that reasoning. I can still understand that, because there is consensus on the international stage, as in NATO, and it requires a great deal of courage and a great deal of resistance to it, to argue with that consensus and to say to my fellow Members that perhaps we are not doing well. If Lieutenant General Compernol also said in the press a few weeks ago that the political part was totally neglected, then we must learn lessons from the past. Let us hope that we are dealing with this in a more sensible way. I would also like to appeal to you, Minister, to convey the message of common sense as far as possible in international fora, so that the same mistakes are not made as in the past. Finally, I would like to get an overview of the other European and NATO countries currently operating in military operations in Syria or which are planning such operations. The solidarity clause has now entered into force, an appeal to the European Union. I can imagine that not only Belgium offers a certain amount of support. Which countries are they talking about? What can we expect?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, the last time we went to war, if I may put it that way, there was always a government of current affairs: first in Libya, then in Iraq. At that time we arranged it with resolutions which were supported by the House. This time we do have a government and the decision has been taken by the nuclear cabinet. I was told that the meeting was late last night. The government has taken the decision to carry out only a defensive protection mission. There was a meeting last night about it. I do not think it is possible to inform Parliament even more quickly. You immediately placed the item on our agenda, Minister. I believe that the government has acted quite correctly in this regard. France is now relying on the law on self-defense and is also asking our country for solidarity. That is a very fair question, certainly knowing that some of the perpetrators are from Molenbeek. In my view, therefore, it is certainly legitimate to help our ally with a defensive protection mission. It is very important that we show solidarity and in the fight against ISIS I want to be guildy by suppicion. Next, I remember that more details about the rules of engagement in the committee will be explained behind closed doors. I hope that committee will be convened as soon as possible. I will address my colleague on that. Mr De Vriendt, you say that we must learn lessons from the past. I totally agree with that. It must not be a matter of military intervention alone. That is what our group has always said. We also need reconstruction. We need a stable country, but we cannot only hold defence responsible for that. Defence is doing a military operation and making the country more stable, but then also putting the whole reconstruction and stability of the country in the shoes of defence, seems to me to be very far-reaching. I would also like to talk about something completely different. I would like to appeal to the coalition partners. At the borders of Europe, in Ukraine, it is war. In the interior, we are faced with IS terror. There is also IS terror abroad. We've had an attack at the Jewish Museum. In Verviers, an attack was foiled. The threat level is now at 3, all over the country. This means that airports, sporting events, Christmas markets, courts and so on are protected. The world is on fire and we still do not have a strategic plan with a budget attached to it. The five scenarios have been on the table for seven months. The Minister has done his job. Meanwhile, the budget for the operations is almost exhausted. The intelligence services are also looking for oxygen. So I'm gonna put in a call to cut that knot as a matter of urgency. For the rest, I have no further questions, because they were all answered during the Minister's explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u12	Madam President, I wanted to thank the Minister, on behalf of my group, for his clear statement which allows for this exchange of views and which, as has been said, comes directly after the Council of Ministers. I don't think we could make it any faster. On behalf of my group, I would like to congratulate the minister and the government on the work already done by our men with the frigate Léopold 1er in international waters facing the Libyan coasts, in the framework of Operation Sophia, both in humanitarian and refugee aid as well as in the fight against smugglers. With regard to Operation Sophia precisely, after the observation phase 1 and the mission phase 2 in international waters, phase 3 of the operation will consist of missions to Libyan waters and territories and will be launched in 2016, following a decision by the Council. Minister, will Defence participate in this third phase of the mission? If so, with what means? Or what other countries will they take over? We also welcome the involvement and work of the three components of Belgian Defence in Iraq, namely for the ground component, the training missions of Iraqi troops, for the air component, the bombardment missions and, lastly, for the sea component, the security mission of the Charles de Gaulle aircraft carrier, of which we have just spoken. We particularly welcome this new responsibility for our ship and we stand in solidarity with our French allies by being at their side. In addition, the frigate will carry out its mission alongside a French submarine and a British frigate, which is also a symbol of the construction of a European defence. In conclusion, Minister, I would have a few questions about this last security mission. You talked about January 2016 for this mission. Is an extension possible and already envisaged at this stage? You mentioned an overall cost of EUR 10 million. Can you confirm that this budget is fully provided for in the original budget at Opex 2015? Finally, this mission of the frigate Léopold 1er is a purely defensive mission. You said it in your presentation. This has been repeated by many colleagues. "There is no question at this stage that the frigate is undertaking attack missions in Iraq or Syria where Belgium is not involved, unlike France." Minister, will the Charles de Gaulle aircraft carrier conduct operations in Syria, yes or no, during the Leopold 1er security mission? If missions are carried out in Syria by Charles de Gaulle, will the French government notify us and will the parliament be informed soon?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your statement. Sometimes it's good to be the last to mention it. A lot of questions have been asked. That allows me to ask a few questions in some niche domains. I find our situation with regard to the Leopold I very clear, contrary to what some people are saying here. The ship was already on the Charles de Gaulle. In these changed circumstances, our mission remains the same: defending the ship. That is not ambigue, as some fellow Members say. Covering the ship under water, from the sea and from the air, I've heard you say. Can you confirm this is our mission? If our mission, not that of France, has changed, will you come to Parliament before a decision is taken? I hear Mr De Vriendt saying that we have made mistakes in Iraq. I hope you do not mean Belgium, because we were not there in 1992 and the beginning of 2000. I hope you mean the international community, especially the Americans and the British who invaded it on the basis of false intelligence and did not treat the aftercare properly or at all. I agree with many here that if there is a UN mandate, which is also our preference, we will immediately look at what we are going to do next. Going to war is like knee surgery. The knee must be opened, it must be sewn up, it must be prevented from getting infected and it must be sent to the kinesis so that one can walk back. There the international community has failed in several wars. If that's what we're all talking about, we're on the same page. Mrs Grosemans, you are right that the strategic plan must be put in place. That's what the coalition agreement says. That is a reform plan and not just a budgetary one. We are asking that the government, under the leadership of the Minister, come to a decision and come to Parliament to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u14	I want to suspend for ten minutes now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the serenity of this debate and I will try to answer your questions as fully as possible. I hope you will understand that I cannot disclose all the details of the operation. That is why we will be holding a closed session as soon as possible. I've detected five large blocks in the questions. With regard to Parliament's involvement in the decision-making process of a mission, I want to be clear: the Constitution says that it is up to the King to decide on the nature of the operations. The King decides, according to our Constitution, so I must listen to the King. To be very clear, the procedure of decision is the following. The Council of Ministers will decide whether or not to take part in an operation and at that time Parliament will be informed. I would just like to give you the history; I touched those little lights in my introduction, but I would like to say how the operation came about. At the end of July, the French asked us to do something together. For the Navy, that was an interesting opportunity, because it was a mission written to fit a frigate and it's been at least 20 years since that kind of mission or training happened. The initial mission was the escort of the Charles de Gaulle, who, at the request of the Americans, would guarantee a presence in the Gulf. You know that or you don't know that, we have a continuous Western presence of an aircraft carrier in the Gulf. The Americans have asked the French to relieve them there for a while. Our initial assignment was, more like training than anything else, to escort the Charles de Gaulle and all its ships, submarines, destroyers, supply ships, to the Gulf. There are two or three bottlenecks on that route, where there is a risk. That was essentially the mission, more training than surgery. To this end, the Council of Ministers decided on 30 October 2015. That was not communicated at the time, because that is the way the French work. The transmission of the Charles de Gaulle is a specific competence of the French President and we were asked not to communicate before the French President himself announced that the Charles de Gaulle would be deployed. That's what he did on November 5th. So far there was actually no problem: the mission stood until last weekend. The next meeting was at the Council of Ministers. Some of you ask to be kept informed of operational changes. Yesterday morning we heard from the French that itinerary was changed for a piece. The palmed relocation to the Gulf was changed. There is a possibility that the Charles de Gaulle will be operationally deployed in Syria. That possibility exists. We were informed of this and, as agreed in the Council of Ministers, I contacted the Prime Minister to explain to him what was happening. The nuclear cabinet sat together last night and decided to continue the operation. We see them as a response to France's question, which everyone here said was a reasonable question. We're going on the defensive mission of the Charles de Gaulle. You will understand that last week, when the decision was taken, I asked the chairman of the committee to arrange a discussion on this, but at that time it was only a little more than a pure training mission and therefore its urgency was less than is currently the case with the possible operational deployment of the Charles de Gaulle. So much for the decision-making. As to whether we are kept informed, we have two liaison officers, one in Paris and one on the Charles de Gaulle. These will keep us informed of the actions, minute by minute. Today, it is clear that our mission is limited to the protection of the aircraft carrier. There's no other mission on the side. If the fleet were to be attacked, we will have to do what we have to do. The rules of engagement are here: the right to self-defence, etc. I hope to have a decision as soon as possible. The Council of Ministers was held at 9.45 a.m. and I was here in committee at 10.05 a.m., instead of 10:00 a.m. because of the media. I don't know how to go much faster. If we are going to make a military commitment, then we must know that something must be done afterwards. Ladies and gentlemen, you confirm what I have always said here. You will never catch me from that, not even in the media. That is what I have always said, with regard to the current conflict, but also with regard to other conflicts. In the analysis of the strategic plan - which was approved - we are very clear and honest to say that mistakes have been made in Libya. There was no thought about the next steps. In that sense, I am genuinely concerned about the 3D-LO approach (Diplomacy, Defense, Development, Law and Order): diplomacy is important, as is development, but also Defence has its role. If we look at the overall conflict, the first steps taken in Vienna are encouraging. There were a number of partners who were not present before but were directly or indirectly part of the conflict. I am thinking, for example, of Iran. It is important that we give these initiatives every opportunity. In addition, like many others, we must continue to seek a mandate to allow a covered operation in Syria. That seems obvious to me. In this respect, it is encouraging that the French, the Russians and the Americans are already prepared to work together on something. The British will not be a major problem, but the question is what China will do. If those five can agree, I suspect that there are possibilities for this, then there could eventually be an effective mandate, whether limited or not. I do not need to speak for the French President, but President Hollande has also made a very clear announcement that he would involve the UN Security Council, this week. What is happening today is happening under the right to self-defense, as the French call it. That is not being fought at international level. If two lawyers were to be put together this afternoon and this evening in the media, they would probably get three opinions, but no solution. I myself am convinced that we should go 100 percent for a broad mandate and a 3D approach. So we also need to think about what should happen afterwards. At the same time, I am convinced that I want to be clear on this and I have already said it in the media a number of times this week that Daesh must be forced to his knees in his own right. There's just no other choice. That is a group of terrorists, which we cannot recognise as a state and which we should not sit at the table to negotiate with. That is certainly my view on this, which I continue to support. In that sense, I am not only saying that Article 42.7 (Lisbon Treaty) gives us a duty to support France, but I also think that it is our moral duty, in defence of our own Western values, to contribute where we can. Then I would like to say a few words about the risks to ourselves by sending the frigate. The question is whether the stakes we are showing now, together with the French fleet, will increase the risk we are running. It seems clear to me that by raising the overall level of risk from two to three, it is clear to me that Defence has also taken the measures that Defence must take. I am not going to communicate very extensively about this, because when all the measures are thrown out, people also show where the weaknesses are. Let me be clear: we are taking the measures we need to take. Now we're gonna be a much bigger target than we were before? The world knows that, from the first minute of the existence of an international coalition against Daesh, Belgium will be part of it. The deployment of our F-16s in Iraq is well known, so Daesh knows that we are involved in the conflict. Having said that, are we a target? I think we're a target, like all Western countries are targets today. When we look at what happened in France last week, it turns out that Daesh is aiming for easy targets, targets that are not expected. Actually, it could happen anywhere at any time. We can only hope that our security measures and the hard work of the security services to apprehend all concerned and any accomplices will be sufficient to prevent worse. When I read today that there are arrests in Germany, that there are continuous actions in France and that actions have taken place here last night, I do not think we are yet at the end of the problems. I do hope that the great efforts that are being made today will also be effective in some of the solutions that need to be found. Has the risk increased much by using the frigate? If you want a real risk analysis, we will ask the OCAD, but my personal assessment is that this will bring us a little higher in the Belgian news today, but also other countries. Then I come to the question raised yesterday in the EU Council by Mr Jean-Yves le Drian. How does Article 42 work? 7 of the Treaty of Lisbon? France invokes Article 42. 7 of the Treaty. It shall therefore enter into force. The big difference, for example, with Article 5 of the NATO Treaty, where an attack on one of us is seen as an attack on all of us, is that at that time NATO command takes over the business. We all have a duty to contribute when the Central Command asks us to do so. Under Rule 42. 7 of the Treaty of Lisbon, an EU Treaty, remains primarily Europe's initiative. That's one of the things that goes with it. In addition, France can ask partners bilaterally on this basis. I have just said outside that we regard the current operation as a direct answer to the question that was launched yesterday, but I expect other questions as well. What could those other questions be? We can philosophize about this, but I expect them to continue to take the actions they are taking directly against Daesh, and in particular to ask for reinforcement in other areas. As you know, France is very interested in the situation in the region of the Sahel and the region of Central Africa, for historical reasons. I can tell you that, in the preparation of the 2016 operations plan, we discussed with the French, among other things, how we can strengthen each other in the specific regions on which we want to focus. It concerns, for example, the region of the Sahel. I have just been asked: will Mali be included in the plan that you will propose to the government? Well, I can confirm that. Belgium is already active in Mali and I want to continue with this because I believe that this is an important contribution to the creation of more stable states in that region. Further details of the actions have been requested. I have already said that we will be aware of the initiatives they will take. Our liaison officers are well aware of the limitations of the mandate we have been given, and they will inform us if we step outside that mandate. What's my assessment today? I just said it in the media. One has to imagine portavions like an airport with a tank building, a restaurant building and so on. The fleet has been assembled. It is possible that at some point we may be asked not to secure the Charles de Gaulle itself but to secure the supply ships. Do you understand? Such a groupe aéronaval is an impressive fact in its entirety. That's not nothing. Such development can count. I can give you more data. I'm gonna take a look at my counselors. I can tell you a little bit more about this behind closed doors, but I think I have told you the heart of the matter here. There's really not much to hide. The fact is that if we work together internationally, at least bilaterally, with the French, we must take account of their way of communicating. The French have a way of communicating about military operations quite different from ours. In terms of communication, everything is centralized and Parliament is little involved, even if it is the latter who mandates it. But I repeat that from a technical and military point of view, communication is really limited. Mr Hellings, unlike you, I believe that Daesh is not the strongest in the region. Indeed, results have already been achieved. So, while still six months ago there were thousands of foreign fighters, now there are tens or hundreds a day.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u16	Now they're at our house.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u17	It is clear that being less strong there, they have called for action to be taken at home. But, in my view, this is just confirmation that the fight must be conducted here and there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u18	Previously, they did not attack us and did not reach us in our hearts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u19	What you're saying is not correct. There was the killing of the Jewish Museum. In addition, numerous attacks have been prevented. Still, we have had evidence in the past that a movement did exist. Today, the events took place in Paris, a city even closer to our country than Madrid. England is also further away. But we must be aware that they are everywhere and that we must fight them in every possible way. Mr Dallemagne, you said that our position was ambiguous. However, we have been very clear. We are in solidarity with France. We support the latter. You also asked a question about the resolution voted by Parliament in 2014. The mission that is being organised today is part of this resolution. I made it clear that we would not intervene directly in Syria. By helping France, we simply make our contribution within the framework of the international coalition. As far as France's other proposals are concerned, or what proposals will France make? It still has to be decided, but I believe that it will be mainly Africa. France will ask for support in Africa. Madam President, unless my fellow Members tell me that it is not, I think I have answered the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u20	Madam President, I wanted to thank the Minister or the King's General. Minister, I did not know this monarchistic sensibility within the N-VA. I'm glad. More seriously, with regard to the question of information, I would like to clarify things. I said that I did not find it normal that in this committee the questions I tabled in early September and early October on specific issues such as Syria and Afghanistan have not yet been dealt with. I prefer a calm parliamentary debate in committee rather than finding different points of view on the public square with media auctions on both sides that do not move things forward. I really insist that these issues be dealt with much more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u21	It is Parliament that regulates its own work!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u22	Madam President, rightly so, we cannot settle this only in terms of defence. I would like to remind you that we have made a request for a joint Defence and External Relations meeting because I believe that the problem needs to be dealt with in a comprehensive manner. That said, yes, there is solidarity with France and with Europe in the fight against radicalisation. I do not agree with Mr Hellings at all! When you have a suicide bomber ministry in front of you, you need military intervention! An exclusively security discourse is not enough, so we must adopt a comprehensive approach, also in terms of diplomacy and development. I recall that we have made many mistakes towards certain Western powers, in particular by underestimating Russia's interests in Syria. It is well known that Syria is the only port of call for the Russian fleet in the Mediterranean. We have underestimated the interest of Iranians, who have Syria and Lebanon as the only market in the Mediterranean. If we want to eradicate this threat, we will have to deal with these countries! I would like to say that the post-Assad must be done without this one! Finally, I do not believe in a war speech that would bury them under tons of bombs and eradicate them. It is well known that the problem is much more complex than that. Homes of poverty must be treated both in Belgium and abroad. Vilvoorde or Antwerp are also concerned with the export of jihadists. The problem is global. Consideration should also be given to training and mentoring of imams in some Salafist mosques. What they are looking for is the communitarization, the withdrawal of people from themselves so that they can radicalize them. In any case, I hope that in the coming months we will be able to discuss this whole issue calmly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u23	The questions in this committee will be dealt with as soon as possible. This committee meets all the time. There are very few questions open, compared to other committees we score very well. By the end of the year, all questions will be resolved, don't worry. With regard to the current questions, the Committee on the Succession of Foreign Shipments, behind closed doors, also meets very often and all the groups are represented in that committee. Those current questions can also be asked there. Finally, you are asking for a joint meeting of the Defence and External Relations Committees. That meeting is scheduled, as was agreed at the time of the work at the previous committee meeting. However, it is not so easy to get two ministers together in one committee; especially for the foreign minister, who is very much abroad, it is difficult. As I said, it has been agreed and we are doing our best to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u24	Madam Chair, I know you're not very used to what an ecologist is talking about in the first, but there's a change of deal. About changing things, and to stay in a light register before attacking the heart of the problem, at least, in all this horror, the N-VA is much more comfortable with the King. We must never despair. With regard to a session in camera, I asked long before the Paris attacks that such a meeting be held on 12 November. Mr Delperée, the Chairman of the Monitoring Committee for Missions Abroad, replied that he was waiting for your dates. I hope that you will give them to him quickly so that we can discuss them in camera, respecting the safety of our military and above all with respect for Parliament. Of course, something has to be done. Should we do anything? You're talking about risks to our frigate. They must be measured, we will measure them in detail in closed committee. But what concerns me the most here is the risk to our country and our people. We're back to the bottom. Daesh's motivation, his emergence in Syria, is guided by the opposition to Bashar al-Assad. Tomorrow, indirectly, we will, by the presence of Leopold 1st on the side of Charles de Gaulle, join the regime of Bashar al-Assad. However, the sectarian discourse among the Sunni population, which accounts for 80 per cent of the population in Syria – it is not Iraq, the majority is Sunni in Syria – is exactly the opposition to Bashar al-Assad. It is because Daesh appears as the main opponent of this bloodthirsty tyrant that the Sunnis will join Daesh in mass. However, we will indirectly participate in strikes against Daesh. That has been said by colleagues, which has been said on a number of occasions in the Monitoring Committee and in this committee: strikes are ineffective if they are not followed by an army on the ground. What armed forces on the ground are available in Syria today? Bashar al-Assad's army, essentially Alawite Shiite, Kurds and Hezbollah Shiite militias. Today, there is no Sunni army or armed force, paramilitary or otherwise, Sunni, which can take over Sunni areas of Syria. Now, and this has been said many times, there is no point in bombing if there is no army on the ground. My fear is not based on a priori opposition to military intervention, but on military experience in Afghanistan and Iraq. I fear that these measures will be ineffective or even counterproductive. Even after our country's indirect intervention alongside the aircraft carrier, more radicalised Belgians associated with Daesh will be found in Syria than Belgians serving in our army. Minister, like all the Democrats, you fight and we fight a sectarian criminal army, but what we are going to do will have a symbolic and therefore strategic impact. The terror that struck Paris last Friday pushes us to react with our guts against Daesh, and that is quite legitimate. However, in this struggle, we must be able to act as our enemy, that is, with our brains. It is in this way that we, the Democrats, will win the battle against these terrorists.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u25	To hear Mr. Hellings, there are environmentalists who have a brain and others who don't!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u26	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u27	It's still the caricature you brushed. You will be able to react after my intervention. On the contrary, I believe that what caused the terrifying situation we are experiencing today is not our intervention, Mr Hellings, but rather the fact that we did not act. People like you who have been traumatized by the operation in Libya have learned as the only lesson that should no longer be done and that it is appropriate to stay on the bench. It's systematic: you never propose anything! With regard to Syria, the international community, and Europe in the first place, preferred not to intervene on the grounds that it might complicate the situation and create the conditions for radicalisation, because initially there were none. I remember very well that your group had been opposed from the beginning to any intervention against Bashar al-Assad. For my part, I pleaded for an action against him at a time when the situation was far less complicated than today. No one wanted to do it. The second thing we wanted to avoid is the so-called bloodbath. But this bloodbath is unprecedented: 250,000 dead, hundreds of thousands injured and millions of people who fled their homes, about one in two. We allowed this horror to be done at our doors, looking, impassive! We reacted when these people started arriving in our countries, on our coasts, because it was starting to be unpleasant for us. That's why we started to react. The third thing we tried to avoid was regional destabilization. This one is massive! And we also had, cherries on the cake that we had not imagined at all, this terrorist State whose purpose is to export terror to the international community. He attacks us and threatens us directly. Mr Hellings, are you proposing that we negotiate a ceasefire with their foreign minister? That's your proposal? I think it is time - and fortunately, a political framework is beginning to emerge - for diplomatic and political intervention, of course, with those with whom we can talk. I think that today we are talking with Iran, Saudi Arabia and a whole series of people who have been tineful, who have been incendiary but who have managed for the first time to put around the table because we realize that everyone can be concerned with terrorism. A political and military solution is finally emerging to reduce the frightening threat that we have made to us and to which we have contributed, it must be said. As an anecdote, I went to Syria recently and when I met a young soldier there, when I told him I was coming from Belgium, he did this (the index on the temple as a sign of madness). I asked him why he was doing this and he told me that the Belgians were coming to behead the Syrians. This is the reputation Belgium had in Syria. So we have a responsibility. For the most motivated, still today, are the jihadists who come from our countries and who also threaten the populations there. I hear you say they're not coming here, let's let them do it there. But there, every day, there is an attack equivalent to that of Paris. It happens every day in Syria! I find it unbearable to let such horror continue! So, yes, I think we need to intervene. On the other hand, Minister, I think we are in an offensive strategy. You say we're defensive. Yes, the carrier is defended, it is the very purpose of a frigate to defend an aircraft carrier that itself has offensive capabilities. Our frigate has no offensive capacity to intervene in Syria but allows Charles de Gaulle to intervene in Syria. Parliament's resolution, however, only concerned Iraq. I think a debate needs to be held. I support you in this regard, but it cannot be said that we are in the context of the resolution that was adopted in Parliament a few months ago. That's not true. It was accurate. A debate had also taken place on the fact that we could not intervene in Syria and that we could not contribute to an intervention. This is an aspect which, for me today, does not pose any legal or political problems, but which should be clarified. As far as the arming of this frigate is concerned, could you tell us more? You said we could counter threats. So what kind of weaponry is there on board this frigate? You also said that the threat would not necessarily increase, because everyone knows what we're doing there. In any case, one thing is certain: the threat has passed below the radars of our intelligence services. You are the head of the main intelligence service for the information we receive from abroad, the General Intelligence and Security Service, the SGRS. I wish you'd told us a few words about the lessons you're drawing. Your intelligence service has been significantly increased, as you have said on several occasions. He has much greater abilities than before. What happened? What information did you possibly have or did not have about an additional threat and about Belgians who were there and who could threaten our territory or that of France? This is also an extremely important issue. I will conclude by resuming the appeal of our President. I must admit that I am a little surprised that the President is calling for a strategic plan. I do believe that it is irresponsible for Belgium, in the international security situation and in the threat situation we are facing, to be still more than a year after the constitution of the government, without any real defence strategy. This is unacceptable. Minister, you belong to the largest party in this coalition. I've always heard that the Prime Minister was in Antwerp. Could you ask him and make sure that there is finally a real strategic plan? You can't just say, "It's not me, it's the other ministers." You have this responsibility to have a defence strategy. It's high time! It is irresponsible not to have one today! It is irresponsible not to have a defence budget that meets the international context! We are totally disengaged from a range of military fields, not to mention the fact that we have virtually no peacekeepers for peacekeeping operations. Out of 118,000 peacekeepers, to my knowledge we only have eight! It's nothing! They're people who are there to keep the phone and keep us informed. We cannot say that these people are busy maintaining peace! Just in relation to the population, regardless of our resources, our traditions, our willingness to participate in the Security Council, we should have at least 150 people in relation to the world population brought back to Belgium. Eight people, this has never been seen in post-war history! So few people involved in peacekeeping operations have ever seen this happen! It is high time that Belgium assumed its responsibilities for commitment to peace and international security.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u28	Madam President, I propose that the members of the opposition hold a separate debate and meet among themselves. Minister, when I listen to the opposition, they won't give you much. Mr Hellings has just gone outside, but I would like to make the following point. He's suggesting that we should do more and maybe send in ground troops. That's all easier said than done. The greatest world power today does not like ground forces, precisely because it has learned lessons from the past, Mr De Vriendt. That explains why it is taking great care at the moment. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Dallemagne, if we want to look at the current crisis objectively and intellectually, then we must note that we have done nothing for four years. We have looked the other way and shot into action far too late. Radicalisation and extremism are important issues and today we are faced with their results. I believe, however, that we should not discuss this in this committee, but in other committees and in other parliaments. Mr Minister, I would like to return to the work of the Leopold I. All the groups agree that something must be done, that we must show our solidarity with the French people and that we must respond to France's legitimate demand. Doing nothing is not an option. However, we must create sufficient international support; we must operate internationally. We know that a UN resolution is not yet on the agenda but is working on it. However, international support can also be created without an international UN resolution. It is a good thing that such a resolution is being worked on, but, of course, in anticipation of it, it is possible to operate together. That is the path we must take to show our solidarity and to make our contribution. Now that is based on a legitimate demand from France. At that time, we also played our part in Iraq, within the framework of the international coalition. That was at the time at the request of Iraq and there was no UN resolution. We must continue to work on that line. I'm glad you're in favour of that, too. Minister, I am concerned about the operational approach to Leopold I. You said that it was initially about participating in an exercise and gradually becoming a defensive mission at the request of the French President. The French, however, have different habits and different procedures. I think that we should make our contribution in a spirit of reason and solidarity, but we should not be sucked into a blind reaction or into any story. The mandate should therefore be strictly applied and followed by the Leopold I. The French have their customs and procedures, but we have ours. It is clear that Parliament must be informed of any changes to the mandate and mandate. In this way, there will be sufficient support in our country for the deployment of the Leopold I. A penultimate point concerns the diplomatic process. As you have just confirmed, we must make sufficient efforts in this area in the coming days and weeks, and I am thinking in particular of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Madam President, one final point concerns your call for the strategic plan. My group and I feel absolutely uncomfortable. Apart from the topicality, I believe that this plan should have been in place a long time ago. Everyone on the ground expects clarity to be created. Mr Dallemagne, it is not because there is no strategic plan that defence does not respond to current events and does not do what is expected of our army. We are debating the use of the Leopold I. I believe that this is a good proof that defense is creatively responding to international questions and responding to all international fires.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u29	Mr Yüksel, I have made an appeal to all coalition partners, not specifically to CD&V. I believe that we agree that this is the moment to cut corners.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not interfere in the debate on what has been, who has been wrong or made wrong decisions. Perhaps it could be our group again. However, it should be seen as a lesson. I myself, as well as colleagues from the majority and opposition, have already argued in favour of learning from the past. A crisis situation must, of course, be dealt with quickly, but we must not make the same mistakes as in the past, i.e. only soon to accompany intervention and seek a possible UN mandate but forget to seek a peace solution on the ground. Madam President, you pointed out that the questions on peace solutions should not just be addressed to the Minister of Defence. I suppose none of my fellow Members think so. There is only an appeal from the various political groups that the Minister of Defence should pass on the demand for a UN mandate to his fellow Members of the Council of Ministers. It must be a comprehensive plea in a 3D approach, as you yourself say. It is strange that the chairman of the committee should now make a plea for the strategic plan of defence. The strategic plan should have been completed more than six months ago. I agree with the previous speaker that today's events should not give rise to decisions based solely on those facts. The strategic plan is a starting point for a long-term vision of Defense for the next 15 years. If we wait a long time, it'll only be 13 or 14 years more, but it's long-term. It is a comprehensive plan that has to do not only with the crisis situation in Syria but also with the situation here in Belgium and Europe, with all the other things in the world and with our partners. Finally, a question. Maybe I haven't been paying attention or those answers are still coming to committee behind closed doors. I asked whether, in addition to the measures taken by the military on the street in response to threat level 3, there are other measures specific to the defence sector. Have any specific questions been asked by the security and intelligence services?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u31	I have just said that a number of measures are being taken as a result of Level 3 within the Ministry of Defence, but that I would not communicate on this, precisely for the sake of security. If I tell you where we're gonna post someone, there's not much point putting that guy there. That is a first point. As far as the security services are concerned, even for Mr Dallemagne who has left in the meantime, I can only see today that the security services, under whichever custody minister they belong, are working very well together. I believe that the right accents are being placed but that the creation of such a cell or the presence of certain persons in Molenbeek has escaped them. There is no immediate explanation for that today. Those are things people don't see. The French haven't seen that either. We can look at our security services, but they haven't seen it either. That's a very difficult discussion. This was also my reaction when Belga asked me, among other things, whether the Committee I would conduct an investigation. I said at the time that the Committee I could examine this, but we should now have these people focus on collecting and analysing information. That's a lot right now. If I recall correctly, there were already 160 research questions from France on Saturday night. Those numbers are going up really fast and there's a lot of information coming in. They are all to be processed and analysed. Moreover, we remain a small country and we do not have thousands of people in the security services. Maybe that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u32	Before giving the floor for the final replies, I will inform the Minister what time he can stay. I see Mr Terwingen, who wants to ask a question about Zutendaal, not least.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u33	I have an appointment at 13:00, so I can stay until 12:35. I'd like to have a sandwich first.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u34	I agree to postpone my question until another meeting, if it can be placed at the top of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u35	I hope I can talk about Afghanistan in 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u36	Of course, I was only referring to my question, which is linked to the questions put by Mr Dallemagne and Mr Van der Maelen, who is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u37	Mr Van der Maelen is indeed not here. Mr Dallemagne, you agree to postpone the question until the next sitting. I'm afraid we're not gonna get to it anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u38	Yes, unless my colleague disapproves! We may still have an opportunity to put one or the other question in the context of the current debate, and so we can postpone our question. The President : Fine! Here's how it's gonna be!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u39	I had proposed at the last committee meeting that some of my questions be turned into written questions as long as I received the minister's answer the same day. But they are still here. Perhaps care should be taken to have a better organization to avoid this kind of pitfall. Had I received the requested answers, I should not have put my questions back on the agenda. If we could put this kind of procedure into practice in the future, it would be perfect!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u40	I'll have the questions checked. In this way, there are even fewer questions that need to be answered. That's actually good news. Mr De Vriendt, I saw you write down with great care. So I'm guessing you're gonna do another eviction?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u41	Mr Yüksel, you should use your headphones in future if Benoit Hellings speaks. That way you will get the correct interpretation of his words. Minister, you are undoubtedly very pleased that you have the support of CD&V for your strategic plan. This may be the biggest news of the day. I was particularly surprised at Mr Dallemagne's speech. It is not his custom, but I fear he has made the greatest caricature of this committee meeting here. In the analysis of cdH one is apparently either in favour of immediate mass bombing without taking any account of the circumstances, or one is a naive pacifist. I believe that many groups, and not just the Green Group, take an intermediate position and point out that there should be room for reflection and that we should think about the long-term effects. I am very surprised that you say here that we should have dealt with Assad from the very beginning. Apparently this is cdH's option? For me, this would be news. We do not know such parties in the Flemish political landscape. Fortunately, however, we did not do this. We cannot do this without a UN mandate and without an agreement. One must always think about the effects on the slightly longer term of military intervention. I would certainly expect a party like cdH to support the Russians' call a few years ago. Apparently, there was a diplomatic opening at the time. I think we should be on that line sooner. Mrs Grosemans, I do not think that we should shove everything in the hands of Defence, but we must not deny that there is a great deal of strategic expertise in the defence sector. For me, defense isn't a technical department. Defence has the expertise to also make a political analysis of conflicts. This happens all the time, by the way. This political component is also present within NATO. Defence and the Minister of Defence therefore have a responsibility in this area to put forward this comprehensive comprehensive approach in all possible fora. I also warned just now that these military actions should not be seen as a crusade. The involvement of Muslim countries in the region is crucial. I would like to repeat this because you did not reply. I have a specific question that you have not answered. Does the actions of the French today take place with the agreement of all the countries currently at the table?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u42	It seems obvious to me, one can form an image of the airspace above Syria today. Ultimately, there is an international coalition, with a number of countries that have said that they do work over Syria, that they do not need a mandate, that this is part of the mission for them. The Americans are there. The Russians are not in the international coalition, but they are also active there. You should know that Assad still has air defense, so that too is not 100% reliable. I suspect, however, that if the French operate there effectively, there will be agreement with the other countries. It seems clear to me, I also announced it earlier, that is also what is encouraging and gives an insight into a possible UN mandate, which the French are consulting with the Americans and the Russians. Mr Yüksel, in order to give you an idea, one has to look on the map how, in what way one gets to Syria and who one should talk to to to get there. That's a very interesting exercise, purely technical. There's no other way than for them to talk to each other. I do not have to defend the French, but the French work in the same way as us, so with precision bombing. We have all seen the images of the trinity with which the Russians operate, with a much less precise targeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u43	You say, Minister, that you suspect that the French military actions are taking place in accordance with the countries in the political process, that it is almost impossible. Belgium supports this operation, and I repeat my words just now, all we are doing now, including military, must not brutalise that fragile diplomatic agreement. So I find it a little disturbing when you say that you suspect it, you must be sure, you must watch over it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u44	I have given a military answer to your question. I was mainly concerned with the operation itself, that was my answer. I'm sure they're all talking.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u45	My question was also about the military. I think you should know for sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u46	I seem to have misexpressed myself, delete the word 'I suspect' in the report, and so I say 'Yes', there is consultation, otherwise it would be too dangerous, by the way. Okay?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u47	I hope the second version is the right one.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u48	That's the right version.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u49	You understand why I insist on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u50	Yes, I do, but I often introduce a sentence with "I think."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u51	Countries such as Iran and Russia are now involved in the process. We really need to keep them at the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u52	Minister, I have never pleaded that there should be a direct intervention by Belgium in Bashar al-Assad. I am simply saying that what was really lacking this time is that we believed that the only lesson we had to learn from Iraq and Libya, which are not political successes at least, was not to do anything! That's a simple observation. At the beginning, however, it was a revolt against a dictator and there was no support, because those you just mentioned (Russia) strongly opposed it. But there was a feeling on the part of European public opinion that we should not interfere. And that's what led to the disaster that we are experiencing today. This is not our intervention, it is above all the fact that we wanted nothing to be done. There were a number of possibilities to be able to support at the time an opposition that was at that time a democratic opposition. Unfortunately, Belgium and other democratic countries wanted to abstain. Secondly, when you plead for coordination with Russia, I plead for a political and constructive dialogue with Russia. I note that Russia has mainly helped, so far, to reduce any credible alternative to Bashar al-Assad and that its bombings have been largely indiscriminate. It was reported by the Syrian Human Rights Observatory. I would therefore prefer not to count on the way in which Russia will intervene in this conflict, because we saw it on Racca last night, they bombed with strategic bombers. This is not the best way to have precise and discriminated strikes. I would prefer to have political agreements with them, but let them intervene as little as possible on the ground, because their way of waging war seems to me to be a thousand miles away from the way in which we have so far conceived our interventions. According to my information, the Belgian F-16s and our pilots in Iraq have so far not to deplore civilian casualties. We have a completely different way of intervening and it is important to take this into account. I really prefer our rules of engagement in this area. With respect to our intelligence services, I would have wanted to know what additional human resources had been or had not been at the SRMS level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u53	We do not communicate about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u54	Nor in budgetary terms? I know that significant budget cuts were decided in 2015, even though they were partially offset.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u55	It's not true.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u56	Then give me the numbers, minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u57	I can confirm that it's not true.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u58	Minister, I would like to know what resources have been allocated to our intelligence services, because budget cuts have been decided in a linear and blind manner in all areas. The Sûreté de l'Etat spoke about it itself, explaining that it had not been able to recruit agents. On the contrary, she had to reduce her staff. I wish I knew what was going on with the SGRS.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u59	Mr Dallemagne, Parliament has resources and has set up committees to monitor expenditure and expenditure. I believe that Parliament should also occasionally have confidence in the institutions it has authorised to do so. If you are not satisfied with that, you must address them. For us it is true that there is no communication, not about the number of people, not about the places of the stake, not about shares and any budgets. If you think there's been significant savings on ADIV and ACOS IS, then you're wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u60	In any case, there have been some in the intelligence services in general. We have figures at the level of State Security and OCAM.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u61	Mr Dallemagne, I will not reply, but I would just like to respond to Mr De Vriendt's words because of a personal fact. What I wanted to point out is that if diplomacy fails, the Defense Department acts and intervenes militaryly, so that a country can become safe, stable and able to build up. After that, however, I notice that every time the Defense Department is accused of not being enough. A 3D-building and 3D-approach is indeed really necessary, but it is not the job of the Defense Department. After that, Defense will protect and secure, but then it will be up to NGOs to build education and justice. That's not the job of the Defense Department. I wanted to make that clear. So point your arrows at others.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u62	Madam President, I am very convinced that it is the role of the defence department to sometimes refuse to enter military operations when the political context is not adequately covered. Defense is not a technical department. We cannot use resources or people for operations that lead nowhere. Afghanistan has been an operation that may have been carried out in a military-technically perfect manner, but in a political-diplomatic context that could never lead to a result. In such circumstances, it is my opinion that the defence should send a signal to politicians that it does not participate. Defense has the expertise to make that evaluation. After all, defence has that strategically broader political expertise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u63	Madam President, I would like to raise two points in the debate, which is very interesting. It is therefore a pity that time is limited. Mr De Vriendt, we are having an interesting debate here. I would like to answer two questions. Firstly, in my capacity as Minister of Defence and in charge of my department, I must, as I have already said a few times, meet a number of conditions to consider whether or not to consider an operation. One of these conditions is whether we can contribute, whether our commitment offers added value, and whether it is clear how our mission will be completed or how we can fulfil it. That is an absolutely important condition, which I also keep. You may rightly point out that, for reasons of the failure of the aforementioned aspects, the Defence Department simply should not do so. You are partly right, however, it is a fact that the Defense Department does not communicate about the things it does not do. Since you do not think we have much discussion of the matters we do or are not able to give or provide much information on the matters we do, we certainly do not talk about the matters we do not do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u64	(...).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u65	That's right, but that's what we can do when we eat a glass.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u66	Are there any additional replies?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u67	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before deciding on a strategic mission to Syria, we must ask ourselves the question, based on experience and not on assumptions, whether the mission in question cannot, given the nature of our enemy, possibly strengthen it. Abdelhamid Abaaoud who is currently hunted in Paris is Belgian. I hope for you that we'll capture him and if he's ready to use his explosive belt, he'll be shot. There is no doubt about that. Abdelhamid Abaaoud is Belgian and the question we need to ask ourselves calmly and intelligently is whether what we are going to initiate in Syria is not going to strengthen our enemy. Isn't he going to reinforce the discourse of our enemy Daesh who will capture more and more new "Abdelhamid Abaaoud"? That is the question we must ask ourselves. I'm not doing this for the purpose of polemicing. I repeat it here. We do not agree, but we will have had this democratic debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u68	It is not because you say that we must avoid new "Abdelhamid Abaaoud" that we disagree. I believe that everyone must take responsibility to avoid radicalization. On the other hand, I am convinced that here and now we must react. We're not talking to Daesh. It must be fought by all means. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u69	Madam Chair, Minister, I would like to return to our previous conversation about the SMS. General Testelmans gave us accurate and encrypted information that dates back a few months. I wish I had your reaction to those numbers. When we interviewed him a few months ago, he said: "Before the savings announced by the new government, the SGRS did not already have the necessary staff. ICT profiles (information technologies) are mainly lacking. Like the rest of the Defence, this intelligence service is facing an imbalance in the age pyramid: 20% of the personnel will leave the army in the next five years." Given the new savings decided at the end of 2014, the SGRS will no longer be able to organize recruitments in the course of 2015. However, this service was waiting for 24 new collaborators to fight specifically against the risk of cyberattack. Minister, how will the service deal internally with these starting effects? The question remains open. The government has also imposed a 20% reduction in operating costs and no investment will be made in the course of 2015." We know that in the meantime, you have taken steps, but I would like to know if you could have recruited these people and possibly recruited more.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u70	Recruitment is under way, training is under way. I still think we need to invest more. This is also part of what I plan for the future. Information is becoming increasingly important in many areas. You can give the floor to all the generals of our army, they will tell you that the means at their disposal are not enough! And I fully support them because our resources are not sufficient to carry out the tasks that are expected of us. It's time to make a decision!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u71	The figure of 24 employees could not be hired, simply to compensate for departures. Have these collaborators been hired?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u72	Mr Dallemagne, I will answer you in Dutch. The recruitment of staff also raises technical problems. Our country knows a lot of rules. I didn't draw up all that rule, but I'm trying to make some more efficient, although that's not obvious. If we want to recruit a citizen in the Defense Department, we are obliged to do so through Selor. Selor will write a job description first and then run tests. These tests are not always fully adapted to what we are actually asking for, and they all take some time. Then these people are trained with us and only then can they be operational. Such a complete journey takes about six months; that is a fact. As soon as I had the chance to invest further in the ADIV, in particular in Cyberdefence, I did so and started the procedure. However, the roll-out of some measures takes time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u73	Minister, I understand that there has been or has been a gap. In fact, at first, they had to tighten their belt. There were measures that I don't know if they were able to offset the losses on paper. Anyway, we haven't caught up with that gap yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u74	There's a gap perception, but it's not encrypted. Ask any department (intelligence, cleaning, etc.) if its staff is enough! What will be the answer? It will always be the same: no.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u75	That is not my question and that is not your answer, minister! From the original budget, they were unable to hire these 24 people. Then there was a budgetary correction. You're not telling me at what level. You've recommenced recruitment procedures. So these people weren't there. That's what I understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u76	This is not done in two weeks!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u77	I agree. That is the answer!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic270x.u78	There are no further questions or arguments. I believe that the Minister has answered all the questions in detail. So I am closing the debate now.
