ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u1	Minister, on Thursday, April 2, the Federal Office of the Plan released its seventh report on sustainable development, the result of the work of the Task Force of the same name. I am convinced that this document entitled "Making our consumptions and productions sustainable" has caught your attention. I wanted to ask you about this, not to argue and criticize any aspect of your ministerial action, but to start a substantive debate with you on the issues covered by this report. I would therefore like to know your overall view on the content of this important document. If everything is not black, the cross-cutting conclusion that emerges from this seventh exercise is that despite progress, current and foreseeable developments do not lead to sustainable development in 2050, which was the goal. Not only are we lagging behind on many indicators, but for seven of them, we are even falling behind the previous situation. This applies in particular to the category "inclusive society" (poverty, youth unemployment, cardiovascular disease, adult obesity). I repeat, this inquiry is not about pointing out any responsibility in your leadership because you are only in the early stages of this long-term issue, but I invite you to rely on this report, through your sustainable development cap, to correct the shooting as quickly as possible and put the country on the path to sustainable development by 2050. An in-depth study of this report shows that only three of the eleven indicators with a quantified target have met or will reach their target. For the two long-term quantified goals, poverty and climate, the very ambition of the targets is insufficient. If the 2020 targets were achieved and the trends simply extended, the 2050 targets would not be met. The number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion would still amount to almost one million Belgians, while the aim was to eradicate poverty. Greenhouse gas emissions would be below 1990 emissions by only 36 per cent in 2050, which is far from the goal of a reduction of 80 to 95 per cent by 2050, a condition for the survival of the planet. The other numerical indicators (the fight against air pollution, school drop-out, water pollution, employment and development aid) are all listed in the category "probable achievement of the target within the specified time frame". However, these deadlines are identified between 2015 and 2020, i.e. whether there is an urgent need. Moreover, the report is not wrong in pointing to 2015 as the pivotal year for reviving the momentum. I am counting on you to take the lead, even though we both know that the challenges of sustainable development are not limited to the boundaries of our institutional divisions. Given these findings and the seriousness of the situation, while knowing that it is still possible to achieve the objective of truly sustainable development by 2050, the report proposes two scenarios of backcasting. If these scenarios are not forecasts, they aim to fuel the democratic debate on the actions and policies to be undertaken in order to meet the challenge. You will probably tell us if you have a preference for one or the other scenario. In any event, you will have found that the report is based on determined and ambitious action by the public authorities. I look forward to hearing what you are planning to do to ensure that the federal government plays its part and is up to the challenges we face. While environmentalists have criticized the poverty of the government policy statement in this area, this report and the follow-up to which it invites may be an opportunity to catch up with us twice, through your own skills that are at the heart of sustainable development. I am thinking in particular of energy and the environment, but also through your cross-cutting competence Sustainable development, for which it is up to you to mobilise all your colleagues on the issues and delays pointed out in the report. To take just one example, in the context of the Food Focus, in both scenarios, the report imposes a limit on 75 grams of meat per day. That is to say, there is still work to be done, in particular to convince your colleague, Willy Borsus, who, at the time of my question, had made a statement on the matter. As part of your expertise, the Energy focus of the report requires, in both scenarios, a reduction in consumption by half between 2012 and 2050 and a share of renewable energy which increases to two thirds. Here too, there is still work to be done for every energy minister in this country to move forward because, contrary to what some have said, we are far from being first class in this field. In order to guide and evaluate policies, the report recommends, among other things, that intermediate targets be defined, as far as possible quantified, both at the end of the next federal sustainable development plan 2019 and in the medium term, for example, in 2030. Indicators with quantified targets tend to show faster progress towards their strategic objectives than indicators without them. As the report states, these objectives must be ambitious enough to be on a long-term vision path, as in most cases the progress in the report is too slow to reach the target within the time frame. Madam Minister, I hope that your answer will reassure us on this point as well. Before I let you develop your own analysis, I wanted to highlight the great concordance of the task force between the long-term vision developed by the federal authorities and the long-term visions of the other entities, both in terms of substance and approach. This is an important point of support to hope that a national, "inter-federal" strategy can quickly emerge, as recommended by the international community and why not in the course of this landmark year of 2015. Madam Minister, do you not think that it would be appropriate, within the framework of this national strategy, for each level of authority to endorse the recommendation to strengthen the role of ex ante regulatory impact analysis? Finally, the report calls for a broad consultation process with all consultation and participation councils, stressing the central role that young people's representatives should play because, according to the report, "they will be the ones most affected by the future". Since you are sensitive to this question, I would like to see with you how best to implement this invitation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u2	Madam President, as far as I look at this report and the dynamics that accompany it, this report is one of the key moments in the federal sustainable development strategy. In addition to its previously published assessment and the annual monitoring of sustainable development indicators, this report looks at the Prospective component. As requested by law, "the Federal Bureau of the Plan presents us with a foresight exercise presenting the expected developments, taking into account development at European and international level and containing alternative sustainable development scenarios to achieve the sustainable development goals set out in the long-term vision". In this way, this report allows the federal strategy to be fed by the scientific expertise of the Federal Planning Office. I would add that, overall, this report never imposes anything, but it recommends a series of things. All of this informs the societal debate on the necessary transition of our development to sustainable development goals and feeds policy development, such as the next federal sustainable development plan. As the report points out, 2015 will be a pivotal year with the planned adoption of the next Federal Sustainable Development Plan and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted in September 2015 by the UN General Assembly. As the law also provides, the federal strategy intends to meet Belgium's international commitments and we will have to ensure that the plan and the long-term vision are consistent with the future SDGs. These SDGs will be for 2030 and are therefore an interesting intermediate step in relation to the 2050 targets proposed in the long-term vision. They will provide the opportunity to coordinate our actions with other levels of power and to give new political impetus to concrete actions to reorient our way of development towards sustainable development goals. This is the response to an inquiry into the continuation of the long-term federal strategic vision adopted in 2013. As for the status of the key indicators of progress, stagnations, setbacks, adherence to the timetable and the ability to reach the target, the choice of indicators is based on the scientific analysis of the Federal Planning Office. These are not indicators based on societal or political arbitrations, such as those proposed in the royal decree that sets out the long-term vision. Nevertheless, the trends noted in the 2009 report are confirmed for some, namely – I outline – improvements in certain environmental sectors and degradations in certain social sectors. You have mentioned this in the examples you have cited. The economic and financial crisis continues to mark society, even though our social system has helped to limit its consequences. The report's message on the status of the targets and the level of ambition on the two well-qualified long-term goals of poverty and climate calls on the government to look at the ambition of policies to meet the objectives set out in the long-term vision. I quote: "If the 2020 targets were met and the long-term trends, the targets set in 2050 would not be met." By stipulating in the government agreement that sustainable development is a key objective of this government, members of the government are committed to guiding policies with ambition that are commensurate with the objectives of the long-term vision. They are also very close to the future SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) announced. The long-term federal strategic vision for sustainable development includes a target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which is in line with the European goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, i.e. a reduction of at least 80-95% in the national territory in 2050 compared to 1990. As part of my administration's work on Belgium's low-carbon transition, we have identified a series of trajectories to achieve these objectives. Recent emission trends in our country are slowing down in the downward trend in emissions. It is therefore even more worrying that the national emission projections, which are unchanged in policy, lead us towards stabilization or even an increase in emissions in the medium and long term 2030-2050, i.e. far from the target set. However, significant investments will have to be made in the short term throughout the Belgian energy system. In order to avoid any phenomenon of lock-in in carbon-intensive technologies, it is therefore essential, together with my colleagues in the Regions, to define as soon as possible a real low-carbon development strategy, as we have committed ourselves to doing at European and international level. The vision and energy pact that we are about to develop will be consistent with this need. I am convinced that the path to a low-carbon economy goes hand in hand with energy security and the strengthening of the competitiveness of our industries. The challenge will be to define a set of policies that is coherent between the different levels of power and that fosters innovation, a source of competitiveness that at last guarantees energy accessible to all. For the definition of sufficiently ambitious intermediate objectives, quantified both at the end of the federal sustainable development plan (2019) and in the medium term (2030), the preliminary draft plan to be submitted for consultation is the first five-year step towards contributing to the achievement of the objectives of the long-term vision. We will have the opportunity to present it to the House and discuss its level of ambition. In the medium term, the future SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) are undoubtedly a high level of ambition that will engage Belgium. We will make every effort to ensure that the federal state contributes to this in an exemplary manner with the federated entities. I have just answered the question on the specific situation of greenhouse gases. The interest of the two proposed backcasting scenarios is to give a concrete picture of possible futures and to propose specific policies. By distinguishing themselves mainly by the categories of actors concerned (consumers or producers), these scenarios point to the common but differentiated responsibilities of each with a view to contributing to a transition towards more sustainable development. With the actions envisaged in 2015 as a pivotal year, but also in the medium and long term, the aim is to continue efforts to encourage administrations to operate in a sustainable manner. The government agreement provides for a possible link between their sustainable performance and operating costs. The system to be developed is under consideration. The focus today is on moving towards a more strategic approach to encouraging federal governments to contribute to sustainable development goals through their own policies. I support the integration of sustainable development objectives into administrative contracts, the smooth running of the AIR procedure (regulatory impact assessment) or rather the policy preparation process and the encouragement of interdepartmental policies in cooperation with stakeholders. I come to the role I can play in giving an important place to sustainable development in policy-making. The next federal sustainable development plan will provide an opportunity for the government to demonstrate its commitment to sustainable development. This plan will be carried out by the government as a whole. Air also allows for a sustainable development approach to be taken into account in policy development. Through the forthcoming SDGs, I would like to make my colleagues aware of the importance of their contribution to the achievement of these objectives. Coordination will certainly be necessary, particularly with my colleagues in Foreign Affairs and Development Cooperation, given the international agenda. As you know, the SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) follow up on the MDGs (Millenium Development Goals). I will continue to work with my counterparts in the federated entities in the work of the Interdepartmental Conference on Sustainable Development. For the ex ante evaluation policy, the ARI is coordinated by the Agency for administrative simplification. This organization's form covers most of the areas of long-term vision and is structured on a sustainable development approach. The Federal Institute for Sustainable Development contributes to the process and ensures that a sustainable development approach is taken into account through the Impact Assessment Committee. I am convinced that this tool has a high potential. It is crucial to give it the time to exist so that the administrations take over and exploit all the possibilities. For the organization of a consultation and participation process involving civil society, the Federal Institute for Sustainable Development aims to promote the implementation of public policies by integrating the participatory dimension, in order to give substance to this fundamental principle of a comprehensive approach to sustainable development. In the preparation of the preliminary draft plan, a pre-consultation took place on the basis of the objectives of the long-term vision, in order to identify the priorities and possible courses of action for the next five years. Once an agreement has been reached within the government, a public consultation will be opened and an opinion will be sought from the Federal Council on Sustainable Development. The policies of the Federal Institute for Sustainable Development are always carried out after consultation with stakeholders. We held a dialogue session with civil society last January on the priorities to be set for this legislature. We will encourage the logic of partnership through a call for subsidised projects. Stakeholders can question us about the policies we are pursuing and we will try to respond to them. I will certainly have the opportunity to come back to Parliament to present these initiatives, if you invite me to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u3	Madam Minister, I appreciate your answer even though we are experiencing tensions in another committee. I see the framework within which you want to act. I note that you are fully aware that 2015 is a pivotal year. I also note that a series of measures included in the government agreement will be implemented after the adoption of the national plan. I will conclude by checking with you that you will be able to make your own general recommendations of the report, which would allow us to conclude this inquiry simply by tabling a motion confirming that the Minister agrees with the recommendations of the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u4	Did you complete your reply, Mr Nollet?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u5	As I said, the entire report was analysed by my firm. I'm working with the administration. A priori, all the recommendations are interesting, but they are not all directly linked to the most urgent policies that we would like to pursue, etc. These are recommendations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u6	That's right!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u7	All the recommendations seem to me to be a lot. Instead, we will take those that we consider most interesting in the policies we want to pursue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u8	It's really a phrase that asks questions. But we have time, as this will not be voted on today. I therefore move a motion for time to reflect on it, possibly with the sizing that I believe is already present in the text, as I table it here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u9	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Jean-Marc Nollet and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, the response of the Minister of Energy, Environment and Sustainable Development and the ensuing debate, - endorses the recommendations of the Federal Office of the Plan contained in its 2015 Federal Report on Sustainable Development, - and asks the government to implement them." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Jean-Marc Nollet and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, the reply of the Minister for Energy, the Environment and Sustainable Development and the ensuing debate, - agrees with the recommendations made by the Federal Planning Office in its Federal Sustainable Development Report 2015, - and asks the Government to implement these recommendations." A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Benoît Friart et Dirk Janssens. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Benoît Friart and Mr Dirk Janssens. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u10	Since we have some time before the plenary session when this motion will be voted on, we could eventually look at the sentence that the minister referred to. The pure and simple motion seems to me to be of little relevance to the minister's response. But let's see by then.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u11	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Temmerman's 4056 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u12	Mr President, Minister, on Monday, May 4, in Paris, the International Energy Agency (IEA) communicated its recommendations contained in its Energy Technology Perspectives 2015 report on government subsidies for climate R&D research. Against global warming, the IEA stresses "the development and deployment of innovative energy technologies". Public spending in this sector is estimated at $17 billion. The Agency considers that it is necessary to triple the level of such expenditure. It states that "governments and the private sector must work closely together to ensure that public funding leverages private capital". Moreover, the report calls for governments "to put in place a regulatory and market framework that encourages innovation and investor confidence." Indeed, it is important to send the right signals to the latter. The IEA also called on OECD countries to increase their cooperation, particularly in the transfer of low-carbon technology, with emerging energy-intensive countries. Strengthening the innovation capacity of these countries is a key factor in the development of such technologies. Therefore, Minister, has your administration considered the report of the IEA? What recommendations could be addressed in the coming years for Belgium? In terms of international cooperation with emerging countries, what is Belgium's position and vision on this subject for the coming years?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u13	Mr Friart, thank you and give the floor without delay to the Minister. Madam Minister, the last time I had to preside, it seems to me that you were already on the stand.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u14	Mr President, Mr Friart, your question has caught my full attention. We consider that the recommendations of Energy Technology Perspectives 2015 (ETP 2015) are, as every year, of undeniable benefit to Belgium. Indeed, some of these recommendations make it clear that the support policy must provide sufficient long-term security on the one hand and, on the other hand, maintain sufficient flexibility to respond to the development phase in which the technology is located. Furthermore, it is important to ensure that market mechanisms are adapted to these new technologies. Currently, the federal level supports research and development at different levels and we are therefore strongly in favour of cross-border cooperation, as climate change is a global phenomenon that knows no borders. We support international research through the International Energy Agency's (IEA) Implementation Agreements, as well as all agreements concerning demand management, marine energy or oceans, the integration of meters and smart grids, electric vehicles. I have here a list of acronyms in English that I pass to you. Since this year, we have also supported international research through the WIND application agreement, which, as you will have understood, concerns wind energy. In addition, we are members of the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA), which is actively working to integrate renewable energy technologies globally, in particular for developing countries, through the sharing of information and best practices. In addition, a stakeholder event organized by and for the stakeholders will be organized on the occasion of the publication of this 2015 FTE to which industry, research institutions, different governments and universities will be invited. In addition to supporting research and information sharing, we are also following the IEA's recommendation on more market-oriented support mechanisms, as evidenced by the reform of the support mechanism for offshore wind farms in 2014. Although Belgium has decided to stop the production of electricity from nuclear fission by 2025, the Federal Government recognises the need to invest in nuclear research to ensure the safe operation of nuclear power plants worldwide, to help dismantle and stop them, and to promote research in nuclear medicine applications, where Belgium is one of the pioneers in the production of radioisotopes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u15	Mr President, I thank the Minister. I take from his response a long-term vision as well as everything related to cross-border cooperation and collaboration with the academic world.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u16	Mr President, Minister, the World Bank states in its latest Decarbonizing development report, published on May 11, that to keep global overheating below the 2°C threshold, zero carbon would have to be achieved by 2100. In order to maintain this threshold, governments must, in the long run, transform their way of using energy. The World Bank therefore calls for less energy consumption, particularly through greater energy efficiency. It also stressed in its report the need to develop the long-term use of carbon-free energy. It involves technology, infrastructure investments and the way our cities are built. Emphasis must also be placed on companies, so that they reinvent their way of working in line with this objective. The main measure highlighted in this report is the work to be done in terms of price policies on carbon. Economists propose several instruments for this purpose: markets, taxes, dual carbon market mechanism for businesses, household taxes, etc. Minister, has your administration read this report? What are the points in this report that can bring new content to your energy policy? What action can be taken in consultation with the Regions in the light of this report? Following the reading of this report, are contacts with other countries possible in order to move forward on certain issues?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u17	Mr President, Mr Friart, the question mainly concerns regional competences. You mentioned industries, infrastructure and cities. I know this report, here's what I can tell you. The development of decarbonisation at the federal level falls within the competence of the SPF Environnement, with which I work within the framework of my competences. It is an important link in the analysis of this document. Of course, renewable energy and energy efficiency play a key role in achieving decarbonisation. What are the most important issues regarding renewable energy sources at the federal level? First, regional energy cooperation and network connections are of crucial importance for Belgium. In this context, we are at the initiative and a little pioneers of activities on Benelux territory, which we are presiding over this year, in the framework of the Pentalateral Energy Forum, which celebrated its 10th anniversary on 8 June, and in the framework of the NSCOGI initiative. New network connections are needed to enable the system to manage the influx of additional quantities of renewable energy and to provide it with the necessary flexibility at the same time. We referred to it at length in committee yesterday, which you chaired. That is why we strive to be as connected as possible to our neighbouring countries. In order not to limit ourselves to the only technologies with the lowest costs, the federal government participates in the Wind Implementing Agreement and the Implementing Agreement on Ocean Energy Systems, which we discussed in the previous question, which relate to the search for innovative technologies in offshore wind and global ocean energy. Let me turn to the key points on energy efficiency at the federal level. In Belgium, taxation of commercial vehicles is based on CO2 emissions. Electric vehicles receive 120% tax relief and electric vehicles with CO2 emissions below 60 g/km receive 120% tax relief. Such measures are comparable to those of other countries that serve as examples in this document. Figure 1.6 illustrates this. Nor is the Ecodesign Directive addressed in this study. However, it plays an important role in the context of climate and decarbonisation. Ecodesign or development of environmental products is often described as an integral design activity that aims to ensure that the developer takes into account the environmental impact and takes into account all linkages in the production chain. This case falls within my jurisdiction through the Environment FPS. Here's what I can work on. Of course, it is important that we work in the same direction with the Regions and with the federal government, on matters that concern it, to ensure the clarity and visibility of the measures to be taken for consumers and investors. That's what we're working on. Contact is possible with other countries in the context of the link between energy and climate within the International Energy Agency (IEA) and its working groups. The examination carried out in depth for Belgium by the IEA can be seen as a large-scale exercise linking energy and climate. Sessions were held at which the focus was on climate, energy efficiency and renewable energy. Representatives from several countries were present to study Belgian energy policy and, possibly, to make recommendations on how we could adjust our policy in a positive way by focusing on our problems and on the best practices to be considered. This in-depth examination is already, in itself, a very good basis that can be used in our contacts with other countries. Finally, the Environment FPS, in coordination with DG Energy, can already serve as a useful point of contact with experts from other countries in the context of energy-related environmental and climate objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u18	Minister, it would have been a bit unfortunate if you had not agreed on a particular point, namely on cooperation between the environment and energy sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u19	Madam Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. It is true that in this kind of problem it is important to work with the Regions, but also with international actors, if we are to be able to look at the future in a positive way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u20	Mr President, Minister, in January 2015, as a member of the European Council of Ministers, you decided to support Sweden in its legal action against the European Commission. The European Commission must appear before the European Constitutional Court because it has still not taken action on clear criteria for hormone-distorting substances. However, hormone-distorting substances cost European governments EUR 157 billion every year. That was calculated by several universities. Of these, 31 billion per year goes to health costs, according to the calculations. New legislation is thus required. On the basis of existing scientific research, we can define clear and strict scientific criteria. The Commissioner for Health has a great responsibility here, but he wants to wait until the end of 2016. This delay will only lead to more obesity, infertility and health problems and costs. You can certainly do something about this. Hence my questions, Madam Secretary. Will you permanently ban bisphenol A and all other chemically related substances? If not, what action do you intend to take to avoid the social costs of hormone disrupting substances? To what extent are you involved in the common legal action against the European Commission? What requirements do you impose on the new criteria for hormone-distorting substances? How will you make it known to Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u21	Mr President, Mrs Dedry, before replying, I would like to stress that the issue of hormone-distorting substances at federal level falls within the competence of three ministers, in particular my fellow Member responsible for Health and Safety of the Food Chain, depending on the products containing these substances and the specific European legislation relating to them. As far as your first question is concerned, Belgium is in favour of harmonised actions at European level. As far as the ECHA Scientific Committees are concerned, we will follow up, inter alia, the dossier on the restriction of bisphenol A in thermal paper. In 2014, Belgium also evaluated two other bisphenols, in particular the hormone-distorting aspects. In the framework of REACH, we can ask for additional tests to increase our knowledge of the substances and to better assess the hazard and the risk derivatives. The evaluation of bisphenol S leads us to consider the introduction of future risk management measures. To this end, we have entered into a dialogue with industry representatives with a view to better understanding their use and the possible exposure of workers, consumers and the environment to the various uses. At the same time, we submitted our analysis of the endocrine disrupting nature to the Expert Group on Hormone Disrupting Substances of the European Chemicals Agency ECHA. We are currently awaiting the expert group's opinion on our analysis. In the light of REACH, different actions can be undertaken, depending on the hazard or risk identified. It is our desire to protect the most vulnerable sections of the population, namely those most susceptible to endocrine disruption, in particular unborn babies and young children, without prejudice to the useful technologies and uses that would not cause exposure. For the specific measures taken by Belgium concerning the prohibition of bisphenol A in pharmaceutical packaging, please refer to my colleague responsible for Health. We have read the latest reports estimating the cost of inaction on this topic. We favour actions at European level while not excluding actions at national level. With regard to your third question concerning the action introduced by Sweden, Belgium has given the Council of Ministers of the European Union a mandate to join this action. As far as your fourth question is concerned, Belgium has been following closely, and from the beginning, European discussions on the criteria through participation in scientific groups and the drafting of a national position on the Commission's proposals. At the end of 2014, a coordinated position was put forward during the public consultation launched by the European Commission on the criteria for the identification of endocrine disruptors. Belgium supports the establishment of criteria that would apply horizontally to the various European legislations - not only for pesticides and biocides, but also for REACH, cosmetics and other materials. Of the four options proposed by the Commission, the amended option 2 or 3 is supported by Belgium. Indeed, an endocrine disruptor must be identified on the basis of the WHO definition. This implies a harmful effect on health, an endocrine disrupting mode of action and a causal link between the two. This is the definition provided by WHO. An additional list of suspected or hormonally active substances may be useful. It would not be used for classification purposes. This would be a dynamic list of substances to be assessed and for which additional testing is required. Finally, prioritisation criteria should be developed in order to work primarily on the substances of greatest concern. Belgium will also co-organise with seven other Member States and Norway a conference entitled "REACH and beyond: challenges and options for improvement", to be held in Brussels on 20 October. MEPs, ministers and the Commission will be invited to participate. The issue of endocrine disruptor is one of the important topics to be discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u22	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, which contains a number of encouraging elements, although I absolutely cannot share your opinion on consultation with industry representatives. It is up to the government to take measures on the basis of the precautionary principle, which will not happen if reference is made to consultations with industry representatives. I know that there are many ministers in this area. I therefore put these questions to your fellow Members, but each time they refer me to you. So it would be a good thing if the government were to discuss who said what about it. What you say, for example, about bisphenol A and for which you refer to Mrs De Block, she also does so by referring to you for the answer to my questions. Finally, you are talking about protecting the most vulnerable. There is indeed already a measure for children under the age of three. However, scientific research has sufficiently demonstrated that this affects the entire population. In my view, therefore, it is no longer a question of taking this measure only for the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u23	Questions Nos 4892, 4893, 4894 and 4895 by Mrs An Capoen are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u24	Minister, during the G7 meeting on June 7-8, the topic of global warming was at the centre of the discussions. At the end of the summit, the United States, Japan, Canada, Germany, France, the United Kingdom and Italy announced their commitment to keep the global average temperature rise below 2°C. This threshold was set at the Copenhagen Climate Conference in 2009. This reference to 2°C is now included in the document approved by the G7 countries. The G7 states that achieving this will require a reduction in global greenhouse gas emissions of between 40 and 70 per cent from 2010 by 2050. Minister, what is your analysis of the commitments made by the Heads of State represented in the G7 in the fight against global warming? Is this commitment to reduce emissions between 40% and 70% by 2050 compared to 2010 sufficient to keep the temperature rise below 2°C? Do you consider that this objective set by the G7 is likely to satisfy the countries of the South and to promote a global agreement at the Paris Conference at the end of 2015, which is on all lips in this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u25	Mr President, I give you the answer that has been prepared for me. The G7's commitments on climate change are undeniably a positive signal to the Paris Climate Conference to be held in December 2015. Of course, I very much welcome that. The G7 has explicitly confirmed the need to move towards carbon neutrality in the century we live in. According to the IPCC's fifth assessment report, global emissions would need to decrease by 40 to 70 per cent in 2050 from their 2010 levels to keep the temperature rise below 2°C, as you said, with a probability of at least 66 per cent (statistical calculations). The G7 declaration refers to this, textually, since it is called "the upper end of the test 'greenhouse gas' recommendation of 40°% to 70°% reductions", which is in line with the European Union's position and is defended in the negotiations for a reduction of global emissions by at least 50% by 2050 from 1990 levels, which corresponds to a reduction of 60% compared to 2010. The IPCC has also specified that the emission budget still available is limited. In other words, we will have to move towards zero net emissions in the second half of the twenty-first century. On the question of whether this will address the concerns expressed by developing countries, I can answer that setting a long-term and global emission reduction target is required by the most vulnerable developing countries, such as the least developed countries and small island States. They even advocate that the average increase in temperatures should not exceed 1.5°C, which requires an even more ambitious reduction in emissions than that proposed by the G7. On the other hand, it should be noted that the adoption of a comprehensive objective is an extremely sensitive issue for emerging and oil-exporting countries. These reluctances again emerged at the last negotiating session in Bonn, where Saudi Arabia, China and India, among others, blocked substantive discussions on a long-term goal. The announcement of specific initiatives to help vulnerable countries deal with the risks posed by climate change and the reaffirmation of international financial commitments, including the mobilization of $10 billion by 2020, all contribute, on the other hand, to meeting the needs of the most vulnerable. There is therefore no one-size-fits-all answer to this question, even though I personally believe that the G7 communiqué gives a new heart to the work of the Member States of the European Union and their partners, the least developed countries, the small island States and is therefore a step in the right direction. In conclusion, I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate that, as the Paris Conference approaches, Belgium will also be waiting for a signal to be sent out on the financing of the fight against global warming. I would like to repeat and recall that at the Petersberg Summit last May, German Chancellor Angela Merkel invited the other countries to follow the example of Germany, which will double its contribution to financing the fight against warming by 2020. I hope that the talks that have just been relaunched on the internal burden-sharing that include participation in the financing of the fight against global warming can be concluded quickly. In any event, I would like to consult with my regional colleagues to study Belgium's response to Germany's call to fill the funding gap by the time of the Paris Conference. I can't be more explicit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u26	Madam Minister, you could not be more explicit. I thank you for your thorough and detailed analysis, as well as for taking up the remarks made by the German Chancellor and for her unwavering willingness to continue in the right direction, I believe, with a deadline set for 2020 and with the funding you have stressed. I also think that you speak of common sense when you talk about the consultation with the federated entities in order to arrive at a comprehensive solution to be presented in Paris in December. As you said, steps have been taken in the right direction with the G7. I hope that these steps will lead to others that are equally dynamic and enthusiastic. I count on you to ensure that this enthusiasm is reserved also for all the partners to be mobilised.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u27	We agree!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u28	Madam Minister, this question is also about bisphenol, although you have already answered a few questions, but bisphenol A in plastic polycarbonate is still something special. It is a deformable and transparent plastic that is in a lot of utensils, such as DVDs and glasses and even in medical equipment. That product is very spacious in our daily lives. Belgium is a very important producer of this polycarbonate, because 20% of European production is happening in our country. This also means that in Belgium 15 300 workers come into daily contact with this harmful hormone-distorting substance. The number of people in contact with it is actually much higher, because all consumers who buy an article containing that product are also the victims. In France, that product is already banned. With us, as you have just said, it is only prohibited for children under the age of three. I understand that France is not a producer of that polycarbonate. So it might have been easier in France to get that ban through, and it might be much more difficult for us to do so. That is why, Madam Minister, I have tabled this second question to ask you to what extent the production of polycarbonate is slowing down that ban in Belgium. Can you also give me details of the quantities of bisphenol A in the Belgian production of polycarbonate? If you compare the health costs with the economic costs of production, what decision do you think is required? In my opinion, health costs are far too low. Do you agree with me that we should evolve towards greener chemistry and that non-harmful alternatives to substances such as bisphenol A should be sought?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u29	Mrs Dedry, before answering your questions, I would like to stress that the issue of hormone-distorting substances at federal level falls within the competence of three ministers, as you may already know. In particular, it is also a matter of competence of my fellow Members Mr De Block and Willy Borsus, depending on European legislation in this respect. With regard to materials in contact with food, I refer you to my colleague in charge of AFSCA, Mr Willy Borsus. But I realize over the course of the committees that the questions you are asking – you are not the only one but you are the most concerned – are still the competence of several ministers or of several levels of power. For the federal level, I can assure you that, having realized this, and as my colleagues are systematically sending you home, my colleague here is drawing up a list of questions that I need to discuss with them in order to have a common reflection. Be sure that this work will be done on my side. I hope to see the results with you in a few weeks or months. For your second question, a quantity of between 1 million and 10 million tonnes of bisphenol A per year is placed on the European market according to the REACH registration file. We do not have specific information for Belgium. For your third question, we also do not currently have any information on this subject. Belgium is, however, in favour of harmonised actions at European level. France submitted a dossier of restrictions on the use of bisphenol A in thermal paper. Germany asked companies that registered the substance under REACH to provide information in order to identify uses leading to an emission to the environment. The substance is also the subject of a decision by the RAC Committee (Risk Assessment Committee) for a more binding classification as reprotoxic 1B, to be voted on in the near future. For your fourth question, innovation as well as the substitution of hazardous chemicals can be encouraged through different REACH processes, i.e. identification as substances of extreme concern for reproductive toxicity (endocrine disruptors), authorisation and restriction. Before using alternatives, they should be thoroughly evaluated to demonstrate that they are less dangerous. This analysis is part of the application file for authorisation. A series of procedures therefore exist. All this is slowly being put in place. You see that we are not the only ones, since at European level there are also reactions. This will be implemented over time, of course, never as quickly as we would like, but there is a real will to move forward and to think, in a scientific way and with certain criteria, to be concerned in the end with the most worrying substances.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u30	Madam Minister, thank you for your reply and certainly for the first part. I am very pleased that you will be consulting with the various ministers concerned on the questions relating to health. I'll note that you'll be working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u31	Question No 5217 by Mr Friart is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u32	Madam Secretary, my question is about cleaning products with sprinklers. On 27 May I asked a related question about wall and ceiling coverings. You said that you would extend the Royal Decree of 8 May 2014 setting the threshold levels for emissions to the indoor environment of construction products for certain intended uses at the earliest in 2016. I also received a detailed document with additional information, for which I am grateful. Madam Secretary, the problem with the sprayed cleaning products is that they are very harmful to health. Because they're nebulized, they contaminate the indoor air. They are also often used in combination with construction products for renovations. The often poorly paid and low-educated cleaners are the first victims of this, because they come into contact with the aerolised cleaning products. Those concerned are not always aware of the harmful effects on their health. Madam Secretary, are the occupational health services aware of the harmful effects of the sprayed cleaning products? Do they give guidelines and how do they inform users of them? The intention was to impose maximum levels for cleaning products in the future. Are you still planning on doing that? Will these maximum levels also apply to nebulised products? When will you take action? The companies that produce products usually meet the product standards, but they are often other companies that nebulize them. How will you control or deal with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u33	Mrs Dedry, unfortunately for your questions on the protection of workers, I must refer you to the Minister for Employment, Economics and Consumers, responsible for Foreign Trade, Mr Peeters. Mr Peeters thus complements the list of competent ministers. One more list with this colleague! The quality of indoor air is an important issue addressed by the Environment DG in the framework of the Product Standards Act. At the request of the Federal Council for Sustainable Development, the administration is preparing the extension of the scope of the Royal Decree of 8 May 2014 to wall and ceiling coverings. The administration will further prepare this by product category. Furthermore, the impact study, involving the FPS Environment DG as an observer, laid the methodological foundations for evaluating the impact of these products on indoor air. However, there is still a lot of standardisation work to be done to assess the impact of these products on indoor air. After all, the effect of a cleaning product is noticeable within a relatively short period of time and cannot be compared with a construction product that is present in the house for decades. Then I would remind you that cleaning products are mixtures of chemicals. Its various components are covered by the relevant European legislation, including REACH and CLP regulations. Those Regulations shall ensure that the risks to health and the environment associated with the use of chemical products are limited and that consumers are properly informed about those risks. Mrs. Dedry, I have the studies here with me effectively. Would you like a copy of it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u34	Thank you very much, you do indeed have many colleagues in the government with overlapping powers. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u35	Question No 5350 by Mrs Temmerman is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u36	Mr President, Madam Minister, in early June, the Public Health Committee held hearings on the problem of illegal timber trade. We had the opportunity to hear from representatives of NGOs, the administration and the sector. Your firm was also represented. Members of Parliament who attended noted that the federal government is very aware of the environmental, social and economic problems that result from illegal timber trade. However, we also found that the budgetary and personnel resources were limited. I would like to go back to you on this aspect. Minister, in the federal government, how many full-time equivalents are currently assigned to reduce the risk of illegally felling timber? What are the budgetary resources currently allocated to the fight against illegal timber trade? Do you feel that these resources are sufficient or need to be reviewed in future fiscal years? If so, what additional means do you consider necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u37	Mr President, in terms of staff, there is currently half a full-time equivalent allocated to the implementation of the Bois Regulation, both for political monitoring and for the execution of controls. Twenty thousand euros of operating costs are currently allocated and funds can be mobilised on a case-by-case basis if necessary, for example for sample analyses. The current means allow us to work on clarifying the legal framework, both at European and Belgian level, and the implementation of the control plan has already begun, with some controls initiated in Belgium which have had important repercussions in the European Union and in the producing countries. Of course, we want more checks to be carried out on this specific regulation. For the 2016 budget, additional resources will be requested for the inspection service. Illegal timber may also be seized under CITES. The first controls on the import and export of species of wood covered by CITES are carried out by Customs. CITES inspection may, during specific controls, be involved in a CITES timber investigation when the timber is already imported and is therefore no longer at the border. CITES inspection is currently made up of two full-time equivalents that can raise funds for further analysis, as I have just said. This staff should be increased over the term of the legislature in order to carry out effectively and thoroughly all necessary CITES controls in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your clear and structured answer. I see that you are aware of the problem that you have taken charge of and I thank you for the mobilization of human and logistical resources, which you can increase in the years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u39	Minister, the plenary meeting of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) met, as you said in a previous reply, in Bonn from 1 to 11 June. The aim was to clarify and lighten the text concluded in Geneva in February, which compiles the requests of the 193 members of the UNFCCC and which is to serve as the basis for the negotiating text to be presented at the end of the year in Paris at the opening of the 21st World Climate Conference. This was a decisive step towards the conclusion of a universal agreement to contain warming below the 2°C threshold above the temperature prevailing in the pre-industrial era. Minister, what message did our country deliver during this plenary meeting? What progress has been made after these ten days of negotiations? What is your analysis of the results obtained and the remaining blockages? Do you consider that the commitments made at the end of this plenary meeting are sufficient to achieve the stated objective of reducing global warming below 2°C? Finally, what position will our country stand at the next UNFCCC meeting from 31 August to 4 September? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u40	My colleague, the European Union is speaking with one voice in the United Nations climate negotiations. Belgium hopes that the European Union will continue to play a leading role during these negotiations and will also act as a facilitator. The re-establishment of the Durban Alliance between the European Union and vulnerable countries is crucial in this regard. As you know, Belgium is in favour of an ambitious, equitable and multilateral climate policy involving all countries. This policy is based on the IPCC's scientific findings and is based on a strong regulatory framework. This is why Belgium is working within the framework of the European mandate to: - in favour of an ambitious and binding agreement; - in favour of a long-term vision for low-carbon and resilient development; - in favour of the operationalisation of the 2°C target by 2050; - for the integration into climate policy of broader societal objectives for sustainable development; - for political parity between mitigations and adaptations with sufficient attention to aid to the least developed countries; - for an equitable and therefore differentiated distribution of efforts, with each country making the maximum possible effort taking into account its specific context and capacities; - in favour of a dynamic and lasting agreement with a five-year review mechanism; - in favour of a strong agreement with binding mitigation targets, establishing sound rules for the monitoring and implementation of these obligations, including a compliance mechanism; - the possibility of discussing risk allocation and control mechanisms in the context of the debate on the issue of loss and damage. It supports this in order to avoid polarising discussions on objective liability and compensation mechanisms, i.e. on the famous question of the money that should be paid to countries suffering from climate change and which suffer damage as a result of climate change. The formal basis for the Paris Agreement negotiations is the Geneva text, which was prepared during the first round of negotiations in Geneva last February. However, all parties agree that this text is too long and not sufficiently structured to serve as a basis for political negotiations. The mandate of the Bonn session, which was held in June, was therefore to streamline and structure the text at the technical level. Despite a generally constructive atmosphere and an openness to dialogue, it was clear that such a method, with the participation of 196 parties in the preparation of the text in plenary, did not allow significant progress to be made quickly. Although the method was very transparent, there were too many people. Nevertheless, during the two weeks in Bonn, sufficient confidence was created to enable the two co-chairs, the Algerian Ahmed Djoghlaf and the American Daniel Reifsnyder, to draw up, on the basis of these discussions, a consolidated, clear and concise version of the text. This text will be available on 24 July and will form the basis of the negotiations scheduled for early September. It is clear that important work remains to be done. In the meantime, Switzerland, the European Union, Norway, Mexico, the United States, Gabon, the Russian Federation, Lichtenstein, Andorra, Canada, Morocco and Ethiopia have already announced their proposed target for the Paris Agreement, which in total corresponds to some 30 per cent of global emissions. Many countries will do so in the summer or fall. In early November, the Climate Framework Convention Secretariat will prepare a report that will analyse the overall impact of these proposals. For the time being, it is therefore premature to say that the planned efforts will be sufficient to keep the temperature rise below the 2°C threshold. It is precisely for this reason that it is essential to include in the agreement a five-year review mechanism under which the level of ambition will be assessed and periodically raised. Finally, I can inform you that the Belgian and European positions will remain essentially the same for the September negotiating session. On 18 September, the Environment Council of the European Union will formally define the European negotiating mandate for the remaining October negotiating session and for the December Paris Climate Conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u41	Minister, thank you for the clarity and quality of your response, presenting an ambitious and forward-looking vision. All this is good for the next negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u42	Minister, the daily Le Soir of June 26 revealed that the central Environment department of the Federal Police would be being abolished by the Minister of the Interior. This service is particularly active in the fight against international trafficking in waste, trafficking in protected species and the fight against illegal possession and transport of radioactive waste. This central service compiles data, compiles indicators, links with other cases in Belgium or abroad and conducts its own investigations. And yet, after twenty years of existence, the Environnement service would go to the trap! I am very concerned that the federal government has decided to neglect the fight against international trafficking in waste or protected species. While this type of crime is growing, the federal government should make it a priority. With regard to these elements, Madam Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Are you associated with the Minister of the Interior's projects related to the Central Environment Service? As Minister of the Environment, are you in favour of abolishing the central Environment department of the federal police? Do you intend to request that this matter be deliberated in Kern or in the Council of Ministers in order to put forward your views as Minister responsible for the Environment? Do you confirm that the federal government of the Environment has received a letter indicating the end of police support for the fight against trafficking in protected species as of August 1, 2015? What are the current collaborations between the FPS Environment DG Health and the Federal Police Environment Service? Finally, what impacts would the removal of the Federal Police Environment Service have?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u43	Mr President, I confirm that my administration received a letter containing this information on 11 June and that this letter came to my office. I obviously regret the decision to abolish this central service in view of the importance of this coordination service in the fight against illegal trade in endangered animal and plant species (CITES). I will not fail to raise this point with my colleague, Minister Jan Jambon. If our conversations lead us to refer to it in the Council of Ministers, I will inform you. This service works closely with my administration and is part of the formal "application of regulations" group, which brings together all Belgian bodies responsible for combating illegal trade in endangered animal and plant species. In the field, this very important service coordinates specific investigations with the local and federal police throughout Belgium and also provides training for other police services. The CITES inspection service, for example, does not have the possibility to carry out financial investigations, seize computers, wiretapping, while these operations are essential in international traffic cases, as you imagine. The Central Environment Service also acts as a central link with Europol and Interpol and participates in the EU-TWIX network, which was developed by the Belgian Federal Police in collaboration with Traffic Europe on the advice of the Belgian management body CITES and Customs. This instrument aims to support the exchange of information on illegal trade in the European Union. It is thus possible in the context of a European and/or international investigation to formally request assistance from other countries through a request for mutual legal assistance. My own inspection service is not entitled to send this type of request for assistance at the request of the competent prosecutor's office, just as it is not entitled to do so. It is for this reason that we need to maintain cooperation with the local and federal police and the prosecution service, including up to the federal level, in the development of the EU-TWIX network.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u44	Minister, thank you for your response, which has the merit of clarifying the functions of the various services. I believe, like you and with you, that it is important that these missions can continue and that you will have the common sense and understanding with your colleague to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u45	I hope so too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic207x.u46	Question No 5543 by Mrs Len Dierick is postponed.
