ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u1	Mr. President, Minister, stereotypes are on the rise when it comes to the income of the self-employed. Yet the situation of the latter is not always obvious when we know the magnitude of the financial and administrative burdens to which they are subjected. These people are passionate, do not count their hours and, out of professional conscience, do not half do things. The policy statement, together with your policy note, has already reassured me of their future. You're gonna make their lives less complicated. I welcome all the reforms that you are going to implement to encourage Belgian citizens to innovate, create and undertake. Since 1 January, following a reform initiated by your predecessor, and which you will implement, the method of calculating the social contributions of the self-employed has been reviewed. Thus, whereas previously self-employed persons paid their social contributions on the basis of their income of three years ago, a system known as "n over n-3", the reform introduced a method of calculation in which social contributions will correspond to the income of the same year, i.e. "n over n". I obviously welcome this reform, which will allow many self-employed people not to find themselves in a surreal situation, where they cannot pay their social contributions because their income has changed. As you know, I'm close to the area. Many independents ask me about the reform and its implementation. Minister, how do you arrange the transition from the old to the new system of calculating social contributions? What about social security contributions 2012, 2013 and 2014? Should they still be regularized? What is planned to prevent independents from paying both 2012 and 2015, and even 2012, 2013 and 2014 contributions in 2015? Indeed, if we want to make this update quickly, the question may arise. Minister, I would really like you to shed some light on these questions, so that I can convey your answers on the ground. This reform was really expected by the sector. The situation is not ideal when an independent person has significant income in year n and has to pay higher social contributions in year n+3. Paying according to the current situation seems indispensable to me. I look forward to hearing you on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Cassart, you are referring to an important reform decided under the previous legislature, which came into force on 1 January 2015. As you pointed out, from this year onwards, each independent pays his contributions for the year 2015 based on his presumed 2015 income. In concrete terms, in 2015, the self-employed will first make quarterly interim payments as close as possible to its expected revenue for 2015, in the context of the legislative mechanisms, including adaptation. A final statement will be drawn up in mid-2017 for the 2015 contributions in order to verify that the payments made were sufficient or too large compared to the 2015 revenues as established by the tax administration. The social insurance fund will then regularize the account situation if necessary. Consequently, and conversely, the 2014 contributions remain fully within the scope of the pre-reform system. If they have been established on the basis of 2011 income, which is in principle the case, they remain definitively established according to 2014 rules. In order to switch to a fairer system year by year with a direct link between the contributions due and the economic situation of the self-employed, know that in 2015, the shift to the new legislation is complete and immediate. Your question also concerns social contributions for 2012, 2013 and 2014. In this respect, due to the complete and immediate changeover, the self-employed person who is in order of contributions for 2014 will be able, in 2015, only to pay his 2015 re-contributions. Take the example of an independent person whose social insurance fund claimed €2,000 per quarter in 2014 on the basis of 2011 income of the order of €35,000. He therefore paid four quarters, i.e. four contributions of €2,000. His 2014 account is closed permanently and is in order regardless of his 2014 income. In 2015, the same independent will spend his 2015 social law contributions. In practice, at the end of January, he received a call for assessment for his first quarter 2015. It was informed that this is a provisional amount: either the amount established by the fund itself, based provisionally on the indexed income of 2012, or a higher amount, if the self-employed is in an increase in income, or a lower amount if the self-employed is in a position to claim a reduced provisional contribution amount. This reduction is granted in agreement with his caisse on the basis of an application and objective elements which show in a plausible way that annual revenues will fall below the level of either EUR 12 870 or EUR 25 740. In other words, the self-employed, in 2015, is only liable for his 2015 contributions, if one wants to be more precise, only for his interim payments, in order to be in order for his 2015 social security contributions to be in order. There is a small nuance: if amounts were still due by the self-employed for his 2014 or earlier contribution years, these amounts will continue to be claimed, for example in the case of a delay, an unpaid amount or a regularisation of start-up activity. As regards the amount and the launch of the reformed calculation method, I remain very attentive to the conditions under which the reform takes place. I am thinking in particular of the flexibility with which the self-employed, who are experiencing a sudden drop in their income in 2015, will be able to adapt their interim payments downwards. I am thinking of the two levels I mentioned earlier. I also have in mind those who, as a result of the shift from one mode to another, would see their social security contributions increase sharply, particularly as a result of the actual failure to take into account the revenues of 2012, 2013 and 2014. The Act provides for ongoing evaluations and a more comprehensive evaluation before the end of this year. I have already had several meetings with the representative structures of the caisses and with several caisses individually to take stock of the reform in the current state. At this point, I must point out that I have received relatively few requests in relation to situations that would be highly abnormal or penalizing. This is obviously a very provisional observation since we are only in the first quarter of 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u3	Mr Minister, you are talking about a provisional statement, but this is already a positive one, it seems. The fact that there is an ongoing evaluation seems to me to be indispensable and very positive as a result of this change in calculation method for the self-employed. You have done a very comprehensive analysis for both the different years and the calculation method: 2015 will remain a contribution year compared to 2015. The transitional period will have to be completed. I think that it will be quite correct and that it can really be known by the self-employed who have contact with their social insurance fund. Thank you for your comprehensive answer. We will of course let you work and let the caisses and the independents work. In September, when we have two quarters behind us, we will come back to you to assess the file. In any case, I am pleased that this new regulation has come into being; in my view it is very positive for the self-employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u4	Mr Minister, in recent weeks questions have been asked about payment periods in commercial relations between, on the one hand, the government and, on the other hand, SMEs and self-employed persons. This concerns the problematic payment periods in trade relations between SMEs and the self-employed, on the one hand, and large companies, on the other. The issue became topical for several weeks following the case AB Inbev, who also made the news. The ball started rolling when a British supplier refused to accept orders from AB Inbev due to too long payment periods from AB Inbev. Even a British Secretary of State responded that a payment period of 120 days as enforced by AB Inbev with suppliers is unacceptable. A subsequent question has shown that these practices are common in our country. In Belgium, the law of 2 August 2012 determines the payment periods between individual trading partners. It was updated in 2013, following the transposition of the European Directive on combating late payment in commercial transactions. That law provides for a payment period of 30 calendar days. A contractual derogation may be granted by the private trading partners. It is even possible to impose a longer payment period than 60 calendar days if it is not manifestly unfair to the creditor. I strongly support consensualism as a principle in private trade, including contractual terms on payment periods and their effects on trade relations. However, on the basis of other principles, such as fairness, fair commercial practices and balanced provisions between two partners, can we not ask questions about too long or too extensive agreements on payment periods? After all, we see that consensualism was often forced by an authoritarian or dominant trading partner by smaller companies, creating an imbalance. Well, dominant forced trading and payment periods lead to liquidity and solvency problems for the smaller partner, often an SME. My questions are part of your policy priorities and interests. Last Friday's announced SME plan shows that you want to make a strong commitment to the competitiveness of our SMEs. Is it not in the interest of SMEs' competitiveness to target over-the-counter payment periods, especially when enforced by an authoritarian and dominant trading partner? Isn't that better for us to arm our SMEs against? Will you consult with the middle class organisations to examine the problem together? I understand that, as a result of the case of AB InBev, you subsequently had contact with small and medium-sized organisations. Will you continue the consultation? What came out of those contacts? Have you formed a vision as a result of these contacts? Do you recognise that such practices may raise questions for the sake of balanced agreements and trade? Shouldn't we legally fix the external payment periods for the government and for the private sector at a maximum of 60 days? Deviations from that final payment period will then no longer be acceptable as a valid deviating payment period between the parties and a period longer than 60 days is immediately manifestly unfair. What is your view of the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u5	If we want to solve the problem raised in relation to the contractual relations between private companies, we need to change different regulations. I am thinking here of limiting the power of dominant companies to impose contractual conditions on other companies. In a perfect competitive market, the latter would never accept such conditions. Before we adopt a new regulation, we will, of course, question those who appear to be subject to the unbalanced contractual clause through their representative organisations, which have been recognised by the Supreme Court for the Self-employed and the SMEs. In this way, we will ensure that we do not adopt regulations which, at best, are useless and, at worst, counterproductive. Of course, we have the right to ask questions about this type of unbalanced clause about the problems they may cause with regard to cash flow or even with regard to the viability of businesses, and about the means that could be used to combat them. We must fight against too long payment periods which weigh on the cash flow of our companies and which, according to some studies, would be responsible for 25% of bankruptcies. However, I believe that priority should be given to combating late payments by the public authorities to businesses. At present, the average payment period in the relationship between the public authorities and companies is 60 days compared with an average of forty-eight days in the relations between companies. With regard to your proposal to set a legal payment period of up to 60 days without the possibility of derogation, I must confess that I fear that this solution would not be ideal. After consulting the representative organisation mentioned above, it would appear that payment periods sometimes exceed 60 days are given by the strongest company to the weakest. A clause which provides for a longer payment period than 60 days would therefore not necessarily be unbalanced. The dominant market undertaking could find an economic interest in granting longer payment periods than 60 days to the customers. For example, a multinational that wants to develop its network of traders on a territory could use that type of incentive to convince retailers to commercialise its products. I am convinced that the problem of late payments between companies through unbalanced contractual clauses can only be dealt with efficiently at European level. The companies that can impose such clauses are often able to impose on their co-contractors a contract governed by the law of the European country which is most favourable to them. In any event, if we want to rebalance the contractual relations between companies, we must take into account the risk that our SMEs will eventually have to negotiate contracts with multinational companies, which are governed by a foreign law that is less protective than our law, even today's law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will continue to check whether there are systems in the neighbouring countries to make payment periods more enforceable, including in the relationship between SMEs. You rightly point out that Belgium must be careful not to act too protectively compared to other European Member States. I would like to see the provisions of those other Member States to see how they deal with them. I assume they have a similar problem to that in Belgium. I note in advance that you continue to bet on shortening the payment periods of the government to SMEs. That is a dossier in which we can already take important steps forward. With regard to trade relations between private companies, we may need to look into the extent to which we differ from the rules in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u7	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a small appeal in between. If we continue to work at this pace, it will be very late tonight, because we will have questions for Mrs Marghem as well. In this way, it seems appropriate to me to try to keep a little more to the regulatory speaking time so that we can finish the agenda. I did not, of course, say anything about Mr Janssen, who is now being given the floor to put his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u8	I hope, Minister, that we will reach the end of the crisis period. With the future in mind, it is important that we promote entrepreneurship, but also make it possible. During the crisis period, several entrepreneurs went bankrupt beyond their will, due to the economic climate at that time. Some of these entrepreneurs want to start a business again, because entrepreneurship is in some people's blood. They can't get it out. Those entrepreneurs may use the "cleaning" system. For many, this change is the only possibility for a new start. For this, the bankruptcy procedure must of course be dealt with properly. Europe also supports this measure and advises to deal with bankruptcies within a period of one year. I have the following questions. Is the average period for dealing with non-fraudulous bankruptcies not more than one year, as Europe requires? If not, what is the cause of this? How many changes have been requested per year since 2010? How many of these have been refused? What's the main reason for that? Do you have a number of measures in mind to further stimulate entrepreneurship? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u9	Mr President, your first two questions are not my competence, but those of my colleague, the Minister of Justice. In addition to the measures specifically aimed at the expanseability of the failed party, there is a whole series of second chances which I would like to address with the government. I am thinking, among other things, of a consultation with the sectors to help the bankrupts find their way back to a credit or a relaxation of the conditions for granting a waiver of debts from an earlier bankruptcy in the context of a collective debt regime. I am also thinking of extending bankruptcy insurance to all forced cessations, including for economic reasons. In addition to the measures included stricto sensu in the SME plan, taking into account the federal loyalty, specific guidance systems may be provided for entrepreneurs who have gone bankrupt, for example pro Deo legal, accounting and tax advice. On the other hand, we can launch communication actions aimed at changing the perception of the Belgians with regard to those entrepreneurs who were in good faith and who have gone bankrupt. After all, we must resolutely go for a change of attitude and put an end to the stigmatisation of those who fail. This stigmatisation is an obstacle to these people and cannot be justified in economic terms. Studies show that entrepreneurs who have had a failure and want to take the step again are more likely to succeed in their new business because of the lessons they have learned from their mistakes in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u10	Mr President, Minister, despite the first sentence, I welcome the answer you have given me. I know that the SME plan has now been approved by the Council of Ministers. I believe that this plan will contain a number of measures. I'll go over this plan and I'll come back to you with any questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u11	Minister, the draft law on the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises was adopted in 2013. The law aims to achieve a balanced relationship between the creditor and the entrepreneur, as well as to create greater transparency to promote access to credit. My question is quite technical, because there are still some uncertainties in the field. In order to define its scope, the Law of 21 December 2013 contains in Article 2 (4) a definition of "Operating company'. In the field, questions have now been raised as to which companies are precisely covered by this definition. I asked that question at the time when the draft law was being discussed, but the report is not so clear on this point. That is why I would like to repeat them explicitly. Mr Minister, first of all, are companies set up to acquire and hold shares in other companies, the so-called holding companies, whether or not they fall within the scope of this law, since they do not pursue an economic objective in a sustainable way? Secondly, are the so-called patrimony companies and management companies which do not offer goods and services on the market covered by this law? Thirdly, and finally, Minister, your policy paper states that you will evaluate this law in consultation with Febelfin and with the organisations of small and medium-sized enterprises. Do you have any idea when this evaluation will take place and when we will be able to know its conclusions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u12	Minister, in Belgium, SMEs are the basis for economic growth. They create tens of thousands of jobs a year and bring our country to the world with their creativity and innovation. And yet, banks seem sluggish when it comes to financing the projects of our SMEs, and especially our ‘very small businesses'. However, banks are expected to use Belgian savings to finance the real economy. For example, there is a particular need for applicants to bring in a large own fund, which amounts to 25-30 per cent of the amount requested from the bank. A huge sum for very small businesses, and especially for young people. Because of this timidity, innovative, creative and supportive projects rarely see the light of day. The horeca sector, as well as the construction sector, seem to be the most affected, because they would be ‘at risk', according to the banks. Minister, have you ever started the evaluation of the December 21, 2013 Law on the Rights and Duties of Lenders and Borrowers? What is the status of work to improve access to credit for SMEs and ETPs? What is the evaluation schedule? What are your current approaches to reducing the banks' excessive demands on SME borrower candidates? What does the SME Observatory recommend? In advance, I thank you, Minister, for the answers you can give me for a sector that needs it and is in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u13	Mr President, Minister, recent research into lending to SMEs, commissioned by the FPS Economy and carried out by UNIZO in collaboration with the University of Antwerp, produced particularly alarming results. More than a quarter of small businesses in Belgium have been refused their credit applications. This is the highest rate of refusal in seven years and is even higher than in the 2009 crisis year. According to this study, the problem of lending is even given existential dimensions by start-ups. 60% of start-ups claim to have encountered a lot of problems in financing their project and 66% report a complete or partial refusal. This indicates that the banking sector does not regard the financing of start-ups as a core activity or at least does not act on it. The main problems of lending are therefore with small businesses. Even if all companies are taken together, the rate of refusal is alarmingly high. Of all companies together, 16.6 % see his credit application partially or completely refused. That's the highest level since 2009. Those figures are confirmed by an investigation by the Neutral Syndicate for Self-employed persons of 18 December 2014. This shows that 31% of entrepreneurs have experienced difficulties in obtaining a credit in the past year. Half of them were refused. The latest figures from the Observatory for credit to non-financial corporations also confirm the negative trend. This shows that in the second and third quarters of 2014 there was a decrease in lending compared to the previous year. The annual rate of change was - 0.1% in September and - 1% in June. Even more worrying is the finding in both the UNIZO study and the NSZ study that the banks do not comply with the Law of 21 December 2013 on various provisions on financing small and medium-sized enterprises. In the last few months, 21% of entrepreneurs have not received sufficient motivation in the event of partial or complete refusal. 40.7 % of SMEs have not received an appropriate explanation of the types of credit that are relevant to them. The vast majority of those who have received explanations say that the information was not useful. 33.3% of the companies whose credit falls within the scope of the new law and which repaid the credit in advance indicate that this fee was higher than six months interest, which is prohibited by law. As financing SMEs is essential for our economy and prosperity, this issue should be at the top of the political agenda. Minister, what steps do you intend to take to reduce the number of refusals of credit? How will you ensure that the financing of start-ups becomes a core business of the banks again? What measures will you take to ensure that banks comply with the law of 21 December 2013? Is the FSMA aware of these abuses? Has she taken any action yet? If so, which one? If not, which will it undertake?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u14	Colleagues, the definition in Article 2 of the Law of 21 December 2013 on the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises refers to the legislation which was repealed and replaced, following the codification of economic law, by the definitions referred to in Articles I.1 and I.8, 35° of the Code of Economic Law. Article 7 of the Act of 28 February 2013 introducing the Code provides that laws and implementing orders referring to the legislation repealed by the Code are to be regarded as referring, following that repeal, to the equivalent provisions of the Code. The law of 21 December 2013 therefore applies to each undertaking or to any natural or legal person pursuing a lasting economic purpose, including its associations of undertakings. Each person holding a professional profession, i.e. any natural or legal person who, intellectually independent and under his or her own responsibility, carries out a professional activity consisting mainly of intellectual benefits, who has completed the required training, while being required to undergo continuing training, and who is subject to a disciplinary body established by or under the law. This is therefore for the clarification requested regarding the persons concerned and for the definition of the law of 21 December 2013. Companies that are established to acquire or maintain interests in other undertakings, heritage companies, management companies also fall under this definition referred to in point A of the 2013 Act. The law imposes a biennial evaluation. Please note that the law entered into force on 1 March 2014. We will carry out the evaluation in the first quarter of 2016. We are currently working on an evaluation method, the modalities of which will be determined by a royal decision of the Council of Ministers, following the advice of the FSMA, the National Bank of Belgium and Ombudsfin, the mediator in financial conflicts. The SME Observatory will coordinate the evaluation, in cooperation with the parties concerned. The evaluation will focus on four axes: credit demand, the supply of credit, the role of the regulator and the exercise of the control mission by the FSMA. Without prejudging the results of the evaluation, we will pay particular attention to SMEs, as well as to those who have the most difficulty in obtaining a credit. According to a recent survey conducted by the SME Observatory, bank financing for start-ups is more complex by 66.2% of refusals, compared to 16.6 % for all companies together. A recent UCM survey of January 2015 on access to bank loans came to the same conclusions and also recommends strengthening the attention of the banks to SMEs and the zko debt holders. The correlation between the age of the company and the difficulties in accessing bank credit should encourage us to find solutions in consultation with the banking sector. It shows the need to work on alternative forms of funding, such as participatory funding or crowdfunding. As I have already pointed out, the results of this evaluation should not be anticipated. Thus, it would be premature to say that banks do not comply with the requirements of the Act or the Code of Conduct adopted in addition to the above-mentioned Act. It would also be premature and risky, for the quality of the evaluation, to comment on the extent to which banks comply with these prescriptions or on the role of the FSMA with which we work very closely. However, as some have rightly pointed out, recent studies confirm the difficulties faced by SMEs, particularly when it comes to access to credit for certain sectors. I am thinking here of horeca, construction and certain target audiences. In concrete terms, we believe that we must act in at least three areas. Firstly, the financial training of entrepreneurs and prospective entrepreneurs to improve the quality of the files for a credit application. My cabinet is currently doing a reflection on this aspect. Secondly, better access to regional public instruments to facilitate access to credit, guarantees, quasi-capital, etc. Thirdly, the development and promotion of alternative financing systems such as crowdfunding, on which we will be submitting a draft in the coming weeks. This measure is part of my SME plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answer. I had actually asked three simple questions to which I expected yes or no as an answer. However, you have explained a great deal and I shall have to read it again. I actually asked whether or not the holding companies are covered by the said legislation. It is rather vague in the report as a result of a question I asked in 2013. In 2013, it was said that it was not intended to include holding companies under this legislation. I will check in your reply whether this has been confirmed or not, because that is not immediately apparent to me after hearing your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u16	Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response. I have made it clear that we need to be careful in analysing the figures and the relationship between SMEs and banks. I think some things are being respected. I'll read your answer again. I'm going to let you work so that this file can evolve positively.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u17	I hope, Minister, that a solution will be found soon and that you will have good cooperation. That will be necessary, because it really cannot go on like this. Starters don't get a chance anymore. In case their file is not strong enough, I suggest that we provide guidance in the preparation of those files, so that this can no longer be an excuse. If we really want the Belgian economy to go back on its feet, then we will have to give the start-ups the opportunity to profile themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u18	This question has been out of date for some time, but it remains valid. After the government decided to raise the threat level to level 3, 300 military were deployed throughout the country to secure strategically vulnerable places. The use of military forces in some Flemings increases the sense of security, while others do not. Some shopkeepers sued a few weeks ago that the presence of paracommands in the street was keeping their customers away. To show that shopping is absolutely safe, the Federal Minister of Work, Economics and Consumer Affairs Kris Peeters went shopping in Antwerp a while ago. During shopping, followed by a lot of media, he announced that the paratroopers should not stay in Antwerp for too long. The Antwerp ships of Middenstand, Koen Kennis, also held their shopping round on Saturday to express their support for the middle class. Have you received signals from shopkeepers who lose customers due to the military presence in Antwerp or outside? Have you been in contact with employers' organisations or retailers' associations about this? Do you have an insight into the impact of the presence on the turnover of the retailers involved? Do you intend to take additional measures to guide the shopkeepers through this difficult period?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u19	As a city councilman of the city of Antwerp, I really have to hold back now. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u20	Mr President, Mrs Vanheste, neither the Contact Center of the FPS Economy nor my cabinet has so far received any questions or comments about the military presence of either a consumer or an entrepreneur. I also didn't get a signal from employers' organisations or shopkeepers' associations. In reply to your question, I would therefore like to stress the absence of any reaction from the sector. The temporary military presence is positively perceived by the public as a signal of greater security in the streets. We must also take into account recent international events, where several threats against shopping centres have been noted. So let us reassure people, also to ensure that we avoid any form of psychosis. It may be a little early to fear for the sales of the shopkeepers. Specific measures are still needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u21	Mr President, Minister, if there have been no comments, signals or reactions, I wonder where it was created and why no one from the FPS or your cabinet has thought about checking with small entrepreneurs and shopkeepers whether there is a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u22	Mr President, Minister, Belgian farms face significant difficulties. You are also well aware of this and you wanted to act as effectively as possible, being active where you can be, because much of the agricultural matter is regionalised. I would like to point out that the sector's tax rate is maintained, pig farmers' 2014 contributions to the Animal Health Fund are eliminated and the various meetings are held with representatives of the sector in order to better understand the stakes and prospects of the various sectors in the agricultural world. In order to perfect your approach and to make an exact photograph of the situation encountered by the agricultural sector, you have instructed the Price Observatory to give an opinion. Minister, is an analysis under way of the selling price of agricultural products and the inputs required for the proper operation of agricultural operations? Are some agricultural sectors experiencing more difficulties than others? What kind of support can the Price Observatory give to the agricultural sector? What are the Observatory's tasks? What is his role?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u23	Madam Member, regardless of her well-known historical role, which includes monitoring inflation and price developments and preparing annual reports on its observation areas, the Price Observatory also has specific tasks which were defined in 2013 and which expanded its field of competence. The price observatory's support for the agricultural sector was carried out through analyses of three agricultural sectors, to the great satisfaction of the links in those sectors. This concerns dairy products, beef and pork. These studies, carried out in 2009, were updated in 2013 for beef, in 2014 for dairy products and will be updated in the near future for pork. They help to highlight the different cost items, price transmission mechanisms, margins and market functioning for the different links in these sectors. As a result of the analysis carried out by the Price Observatory within the framework of the ICN, the SPF Economy has proved to be an extremely important player in supporting the dialogue of the agri-food chain. This dialogue consisted of a series of meetings involving the various agricultural actors or actors in the chain. The objectives of this consultation have been to provide more transparency in terms of prices throughout the agricultural sector; each link is thus kept informed of the economic situation of all the players in the sector to which it belongs. The SPF Économie, which is increasingly involved in the agricultural sector, operates as a neutral partner to help guide the market through objective analysis. A concrete example of the role of the FPS Economy is the publication of an index for beef published monthly on the FPS website. Indeed, at the request of the beef and veal chain, the SPF Economy has developed an index which shows the evolution of the main costs for cattle farmers, in particular the cost of inputs, food, but also the evolution of the price paid to these cattle farmers. When the raw margins of the breeder are too fragile, this index acts as an alarm signal for the various players in the sector. For the market to function properly, the breeder must therefore know all the elements that have an impact on his financial situation. Moreover, the positive relations between the various links in the sector are also important and the work of the Observatory contributes to this objective. Finally, you mentioned the cash flow difficulties faced by farms. First of all, it is worth recalling that the analysis of the profitability of farms is a competence vested in the Regions. Therefore, these are in the front line for the analysis of the sectors in difficulty, but we want to be involved in the areas of competence which are ours, in particular through the drafting of the studies on the sector. For example, pig farms have been facing profitability problems since 2010, in particular related to carcase and food prices. Dairy companies are also in a complicated situation. Compared to 2013, some costs have increased, such as feed and energy. At the same time, after having experienced good years of sales prices, with 35 and 42 cents per litre respectively (real price), it declined at the end of 2014 and early 2015 and stabilized to 30.2 cents per litre as a result of a large global supply, a decrease in consumption in China, at the end of quotas and the consequences of the Russian embargo. Finally, with regard to beef and veal, the difficulties seem less acute, even if the market, which is now tense, must be subject to special surveillance. It is well known that following the Russian embargo, a series of food products have faced difficult situations: the fruit sectors, also some vegetables. I have had the opportunity to talk to the European Commissioner about the measures we have proposed in this regard. Last point: what is the Observatory going to do in the near future? The Price Observatory concludes for the moment the update of its study Price, costs and margins in the pig sector. I have received other questions on the subject of this sector, which is now facing an extremely delicate situation. I therefore have the will to make the analysis that the Observatory will shortly transmit to us an additional tool for action. This is done in consultation with the Agrofront, with which we discussed these actions. I would like to conclude by pointing out that we have asked the European Council on 23 January to ensure that the same tool can be used at European level. Furthermore, we have asked the European Commissioner, who has relayed to his colleague in charge of competition, a study on the price of inputs, especially fertilizers, which we consider to be abnormally high.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u24	Minister, thank you for your full answer. You know as well as I do that most agricultural materials are regionalized. Everyone has a role to play. But it is essential that the federal government, you in this case, be, and you fully assume, the sector's interlocutor with regard to the Price Observatory. The different margins, you just explained: the price of fertilizers, the selling price. I think we have that role to play. We will complete it fully, because it is essential for the sector. I repeat that each entity has its own competencies. The Walloon Region also has a role to play in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u25	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Daerden's 1765 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u26	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Crusnière's 2010 question will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u27	Mr President, Minister, Europe has compressed the budget for the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) and therefore indirectly the income of several hundred farmers for whom this income is more than valuable. As the European envelope for agriculture has fallen by 11%, this is not without consequences for our farmers, whether they work in conventional or organic farming. More than half of farmers' incomes are affected. Therefore, if they want their farm to survive, they will have to work much more. For the older ones, it's panic – and I understand them. By reducing the CAP, Europe decides to make them more vulnerable to the fluctuation in market prices, which, as we have already seen, can be detrimental to the latter. What, then, do you answer to these farmers who are less and less protected and more and more worried?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u28	Mr President, I had planned a joint reply, since your colleague had to deal with the same subject – at least in part.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u29	If you'll excuse him, because he's detained.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u30	So you can pass on my answer to Mr Crusnière. First of all, the budget of the Common Agricultural Policy for the 2014-2020 programming period shows a decrease of just over 11%. In detail, aid for the first pillar, which includes large amounts of direct aid, amounts to €270 billion, a considerable amount, but which reflects a decrease of 17.5% compared to the 2007-2013 programming period. In addition, the amount of aid under the second pillar, including rural development, amounts to EUR 84.9 billion, a decrease of 11% compared to the previous programming period. The budget currently accounts for 40.7 % of the total budget of the European Union. This figure reached 60% in the late 1980s. It will correspond to more or less 36% in 2020. It is also interesting to mention the cost of the CAP per capita in Europe per year: around 117 euros. It is also the price of high-quality food and the essential support for an important economic sector. As far as our country is concerned, Belgium faces a decrease in the envelope of direct payments and rural development by 6.4% for the 2014-2020 programming period. In more detail, the Belgian national envelope falls by 7.1 % for direct payments and 1.2 % for rural development respectively. As you know, the implementation of the CAP reform is a matter for the regions. The choices made by these have not been easy to make, given the European framework, whose share of the agricultural budget is actually declining. In some cases, these choices, combined with the overall reduction in budgets, may lead to a significant reduction in aid. However, the figures that Mr Crusnière quoted in his question must be confirmed by the Region. In this regard, contacts between the Commission and regional entities are still under way and a number of questions have been formulated by the European Commission for the Regions. As regards the unfavourable price developments in the dairy, pig and cattle sectors and in other sectors, I am fully aware of the situation and that a number of measures have already been taken in the Federal Republic to support the agricultural sector, in particular following the consequences of the embargo, the end of milk quotas and the elements you mention. Let me mention the sustainability of the tax exemptions and reductions related to CAP aid, which allows an estimated gain for the agricultural sector of EUR 20 million per year, a decision taken in an unlimited way over time, the reduction and abolition of contributions to the Animal Health Fund for the bovine and porcine sectors of EUR 4 million (EUR 3.6 million), the facilities for the payment of social contributions for enterprises facing cash flow difficulties. I would also like to highlight the work carried out by the Belgian Price Observatory, as well as the consultation with the Agrofront. I attend the European Council of Agriculture on a monthly basis. I defend the positions defined with the federated entities as provided for in our cooperation protocols. The agreement with the representatives of the federated entities and with my European colleagues is excellent, which translates into a strong position on the part of Belgium in the Council and enables the best interests of our farmers to be defended. As requested by the Council on 26 January, Belgium has tabled a series of proposals aimed at increasing transparency in the economic monitoring tools of the various agricultural sectors, with a view, if possible, to preventing crises, as well as developing the role of the European Observatory. I would add that we have called for a revision and modernisation of the intervention price for milk, asking that it be linked to the cost of production in the countries and that it be updated. Finally, with regard to the pigmeat sector, Belgium has proposed to the European Council a very precise plan including various measures. One was linked to the early slaughter of pigs, resulting in a reduction in supply by weight, and another was the activation of the private storage aid for pigmeat corresponding to animals slaughtered early. Commissioner Phil Hogan partially approved Belgium's request and announced, during his visit to the Paris agricultural fair on 22 February 2015, the financing of private storage aid and the financing of the storage of products withdrawn from the market. We believe that we are extremely proactive in terms of contacts, proposals and consultations, with the aim of helping our farmers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u31	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. You've confirmed that the numbers are intriguing. I hear your desire for proactivity and I encourage you to do so. Having said that, I agree with Mrs Cassart-Mailleux. I hope, in any case, that you will do everything you can to reassure the farmers whose concerns are great.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u32	Mr President, since you are asking for speed, the Minister can answer my questions immediately, which he has already received in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u33	My cabinet has already contacted the administration about the possibility of regularising the exempted quarters. This contact has shown that a relatively simple measure could be introduced. It is a question of enabling the selfemployed person who has obtained an exemption from contributions to pay the contributions for the exempted quarters within the five-year limitation period. I hope that this measure can enter into force as soon as possible, but the practical arrangements still need to be discussed. It goes without saying that the General Management Committee for the Social Status of the Self-employed, the ABC, will be involved in the Commission's reforms. The ABC gave an opinion on 3 July 2013. Many of the proposals formulated in this opinion were implemented. Let me give you some examples: the updating of the financial data for the hearing, the improvement of the information document sent by the fund to the self-employed person requesting an exemption and the introduction of mandatory fields in this form.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u34	Minister, you have announced a concession. I am pleased that you are addressing this question and the possibility of regularisation in the context of building up social rights, in particular pension rights, during the periods of exemption from social contributions. I await your further action. I understand that you will discuss this with the ABC. I hope that the measure can be implemented quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u35	Mr Gilkinet is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u36	Minister, the European Commission has decided to abolish milk quotas by the end of March 2015. To date, there is no compensatory measure to regulate the market. The fact that there will be an over-production of milk, probably followed by a major drop in prices, is almost written in the stars. On Monday 26 January 2015, you had a meeting with your fellow European ministers to discuss milk quotas and other problems in the sector. Given the many crises in the sector in Europe, I am pleased to hear that you have put forward a number of concrete proposals, including a step-by-step increase in the intervention price for milk. Minister, how did the consultations go? Is there agreement on your proposal? What concrete decisions were taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u37	Mrs Gantois, it is indeed very important, in my view, to find solutions at European level to the fall in milk prices affecting producers. In general, the milk market is today negatively affected by the Russian embargo, the oversupply of milk, the excess stocks in China and the psychological effect of the abolition of quotas. Other variables could have a positive effect on milk prices in the long term, such as falling deliveries in the Netherlands, Denmark and Ireland or the significant weakening of the euro that boosts our exports and the enormous export potential to the growing countries such as China. Our Belgian milk sector has absurd assets and I hope that they will enable the sector to make the most of its opportunities, namely favourable climate conditions, a good knowledge of our producers and a positive and quality image. The Belgian position was clear and strong at the last European Agriculture Council on 26 January 2015. In the short term, Belgium is asking for the revision and modernisation of the intervention price for milk, which must be linked to the current production costs of the countries. A margin should be provided to avoid a repetition of a crisis such as in 2009. In the long term, Belgium has requested the development of the European Prize Observatory. This is an essential tool for disseminating information on supply, demand and prices. The profitability of the companies is linked to the fluctuation of raw material prices. However, this variable is not taken into account in the reports of the European Observatory, as opposed to those of the Belgian Prize Observatory. That is why, at the European Agriculture Council, I expressed the wish that the European Observatory should take account of the margin for providing the most transparent and objective information possible to producer organisations. I have also asked for measurement methods to be determined for reference production costs per product and geographical area and for profit margins to be established, which are essential for the survival of farms, by taking specific account of the regions and zones concerned for a particular product such as milk. The Commissioner for Agriculture, Mr Phil Hogan, has said that Europe is not currently in crisis or is not yet in crisis. The intervention to support the private storage of milk products, butter and milk powder was extended until September 2015 at the European Council. I also have a number of figures for you on this. The Commission has also underlined the need to step up efforts to identify and develop alternative markets. Belgium also made a proposal for the pigmeat sector at the Council meeting on 26 January. Following the support and repeated question from myself and some of my fellow Members during the Council or the bilateral meetings to support the pig sector, Commissioner Hogan agreed to private storage and its financing on 24 February. You can be sure that within my powers I will continue to monitor carefully the evolution of the milk producers' profit margins so that they can enjoy a decent income.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer. You have already answered one of my next questions. I note that you are not taking a completely negative view, but that there are also some positive prospects. I'm glad to hear that. However, I think we should be careful and keep an eye on whether the price does not collapse. Let me compare it to Switzerland. In 2009, quotas were abolished and a lot of farmers went under because the milk price had fallen by just as much as 24%. I hope that we will be able to prevent such situations in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u39	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Maingain's 2326 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u40	Mr President, Minister, this question is in line with a question I have just heard about the situation of the self-employed with regard to the exemption from social security contributions and their consequences. Belgium still has a difficult economic period. The Commission for Exemption from Contributions has been set up to help self-employed people in difficulty when they see their activities reduced or reduced due to unforeseen circumstances. Until 1980 they could apply for exemption, and the intention was to retain their social rights further. However, for the quarters after 1980, this has implications for the calculation of the retirement and survivor's pension. The current government agreement contains passages aimed at improving the status of self-employed workers, particularly as regards pension rights, which are at least equivalent to those laid down in other statutes. Mr President, when will you take action to improve the situation of the self-employed who have applied for exemption for contributions after 1980 and who have lost certain pension rights? Have any steps been taken on this matter? Do you have any idea of the budgetary impact of abolishing this measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u41	Mr President, Minister, entrepreneurs in difficulty can make use of the possibility of exemption from social contributions. Where their application has been approved by the Commission for Exemption from Contributions, they may be exempted for a few quarters. This is an interesting option for entrepreneurs, who can breathe in a moment. I would like to receive more information from you about the use of this option. How many applications for exemption are submitted and how many are accepted? What are the main reasons for refusal? How much time will there be between the submission of the application and the Commission's reply for Exemption from Contributions on whether or not to approve the application? For how many quarters is a minimum, maximum and average exemption granted? Do social secretariats consistently inform entrepreneurs in difficulty of the possibility of applying for exemption from social contributions? We suspect that this is not the case because it goes against the interests of the social secretariats and because entrepreneurs are not sufficiently aware of this possibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in my general policy paper, I have reminded you of my desire to also allow the self-employed who have obtained an exemption to pay a regularisation fee later and thus to build up pension rights for the quarters concerned. In the light of this, my administration was contacted about the possibility of regularising the exempted trimesters. This contact has shown that a relatively simple measure could be introduced. It is a question of enabling a self-employed person who has obtained an exemption from contributions to pay contributions for the exempted quarters within the five-year limitation period. I hope that this measure can enter into force as soon as possible this year, but its practical arrangements still need to be discussed. In July 2014, DG Self-Employees estimated the cost of granting a purely and simple pension entitlement for the exemption of contributions. Based on 2013 figures, the budgetary impact of a pure abolition in a steady period from 2060 would create an annual pension cost of EUR 110 million. As far as the exemption figures are concerned, the latest available figures refer to the year 2014. See figures: number of applications 27 050, number of decisions 29 932, total exemptions 8 501, partial exemptions 10 792 and refusals 3 827. There are also a number of files without subject matter, inadmissible, cancelled and incomplete. The Commission for the Exemption of Contributions grants an exemption to self-employed persons in need or when their situation approaches the state of need. In order to assess their state of need, the Committee shall, in particular, take into account the income and expenses of persons belonging to their families, unless it is established in relation to those persons that they have nothing to do with the self-employed activity of the self-employed person concerned and, moreover, they do not have the legal obligation to assist that self-employed person or to provide food. The main reasons for refusal are therefore linked to the fact that the applicant is either not in a state of need or cannot provide sufficient evidence. On average, there is a six-month period between the application by the self-employed person, who himself has a month to complete his file. I have a number of figures for you in relation to the Commission's decisions on exemption from contributions. The file shall either exempt, refuse in full or grant part of the application. However, I do not have average figures per file.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u43	Minister, I would like to thank the figures for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u44	Mr Minister, I hope that I will also receive the written reply, because I did not quite understand the first amounts on the exemption.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u45	It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u46	Debates of the European Parliament 2 442 by Mr Maingain was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u47	Mr Minister, I will keep my question on the support measures for the pig sector brief. A measure has been taken at European level. One will freeze a pack of pork. No one was really asking for this measure. Is this pork supposed to end up on our markets again? If that's the case, the pig price will collapse again. Do you, and by extension, follow the European Commissioner's thinking, looking for other foreign markets for this meat and for this stock? Would it not be a good option to grant subsidies for the lighter slaughter of pigs, with which we immediately control production and also support the farmer? What is your opinion on this? My second question is in line with this. De Standaardkopte on 24 February 2015: "Schulden force pig farmers to sell to animal feed business' At the same time, the aid measures were announced. In the meantime, 110 pig farms have been transferred to animal feed farms. The farmer is no longer able to pay his feed invoices because of the low pigmeat prices. These are 110 companies, but I'm afraid there are more, it's just the tip of the iceberg. The innate pride of the farmer all too often prevents him from coming out with it. Many managers now work as an employed person in the company that was either a generation after generation in family hands or in the company that the manager himself built stone by stone. I don't really know what's the most poignant thing. These are family farms that disappear forever. The phenomenon is not new, but it is only in the long term that a farmer can reap the benefits of his investment. However, in the short term he has, especially today, to deal with a very uncertain return. Is the announced support sufficient to help the sector out of the deep valley? Can this give managers some certainty in anticipation of better times? What structural steps can be taken to avoid, or reduce, such drama events in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u48	Madam President, as far as the pig sector is concerned, we must point out that the total amount of exports from the European Union to Russia was EUR 1 billion in 2013, while the European price for pigmeat is still 20% lower than the average price of five years ago. In Belgium, I have established through the studies carried out by the Belgian Prize Observatory that the pig farms have been facing profitability problems since 2010, in particular due to the decrease in the price of pigs. Even though prices have risen slightly in recent weeks, the current price for 23 kg piglets is still almost 12% lower than the price in January 2014, for the Russian embargo. At the European Agriculture Council in January, Belgium proposed a plan. Commissioner Phil Hogan partially approved Belgium's question. In February 2015, he announced at the Paris Agricultural Fair that support for private storage would be granted. This amounts to financing the storage of products withdrawn from the market in order to raise the price of pigs again. In February 2015, the private storage aid measure was approved by the Member States on the Management Committee and that is really important. This aid measure has now been formally applicable since the week of 2 March 2015. The Commission's decision goes in the right direction, of course, given the difficult context we know today, and in particular the initial fear of the pigmeat sector that no action would be taken. Since the beginning of the Russian embargo, it seemed obvious that the resultant surplus had to be sold outside the European Union in order not to increase the pressure on prices in Europe. The need to find new markets in third countries has become obvious for the reasons I have just mentioned and not to depend on too few export destinations. Some companies sometimes only have a single destination. If that destination fails, it could lead to serious economic problems. We know that for some countries such as Russia, the risk is high in this respect. In order to achieve these objectives, I want to make a personal commitment and will use all the resources I have at my disposal. Within the specific framework of my powers, I will ensure that the ad hoc services of the BFSA can work fully operational and efficiently for everything related to the sanitary protocols, the authorisations of our companies and the certificates. I made that a priority. I also take part in the reflection exercise on the introduction of a platform and a permanent Task Force Export that gathers all the actors involved in the export of agri-food, whether private or public, regional or federal actors. After all, I want to create an optimal and efficient system through maximum cooperation between the various actors. More specifically regarding pigmeat, my services were already in contact with the Export cell of the BFSA last week and also with the Federation of Belgian Meat and with FEBEV, the professional organisation of slaughterhouses and cutting plants, to see all possible options for the development of exports in this sector. As you know, Belgium has submitted several export files in growing countries, particularly in Asia. I intend to encourage the agreement procedure which essentially relates to special sanitary guarantees when the response period of those foreign authorities appears to be too long. You can be sure that, within the limits of my powers, I will continue to follow the evolution of the profit margin of pigmeat producers so that they can enjoy a decent income. There will also be a European Council on 19 March 2015. I will therefore be given other information and other actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u49	Mr President, Minister, it is certainly a positive signal that this one measure has been taken. It is also a form of recognition that the Russian embargo also has consequences. However, I continue to express my concern about the fact that frozen meat comes back on the market. I hear you're looking for other markets. Asia is mentioned a number of times. That's a good thing. I am also very pleased with the intention, which I do not doubt, that you will continue to work for the good functioning of the pig grower and for the welfare of the pig grower. I hope that this will also happen from Europe, through a number of measures that create a balanced market and which also result from a long-term vision. I also have a reply to my second question on the disappearance of family farms. I would like to point out that this is how agricultural subsidies reach the animal feed manufacturers and the banks, rather than the active farmer where they belong.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u50	Minister, as has been mentioned a few times today, you announced your SME plan last Friday, following the decision of the Council of Ministers on this matter. The plan brings together some 40 concrete measures to support SMEs. I am very pleased that you have already come up with the SME plan and that you have shown decisiveness in drawing up and hopefully also in implementing the 40 concrete measures. The SME plan, as previously discussed following your policy paper, has been built around five central themes: debt securities and axes. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions about Friday's decision and the launch of your SME plan. Firstly, how is the SME plan followed? I have read in the decision of the Council of Ministers that each minister remains competent in his field. However, I believe that it would be a good idea for a central monitoring committee to be able to monitor the implementation and progress of the various measures. Secondly, how will you deal specifically with implementation and follow-up? Thirdly, what budgets are linked to the SME plan? I read in the Council of Ministers' decision that the plan depends on the budgetary situation. So I assume that at the moment there is no budget attached to the SME plan? Or have certain budgets already been agreed for the implementation of the SME plan? Fourthly, what is the timing for the further implementation and implementation of the 40 measures? Fifth, does the plan include the full policy you will pursue vis-à-vis SMEs? Or are there other areas besides the SME plan in which you plan measures in the coming years? Sixth and finally, the Regions are responsible for many issues, actions and policies in support of SMEs. How will your plan relate to these regional initiatives?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u51	It was decided that as a minister responsible for SMEs, I coordinate the federal plan and ensure its reporting and follow-up, of course in consultation with my fellow Members. Once a quarter, I will report to the Council of Ministers on the state of play of each proposed measure from April 2005. Many of the measures contained in the plan cost nothing and will be able to be implemented quickly. These are purely regulatory measures, such as: the modernisation of labour law (4th proposal), the improvement of readability of tax and parafiscal legislation (6th proposal), the adjustment of tax control and the strengthening of mutual trust (7th proposal), the attractiveness of the operative part of the employers' group (10th proposal), the reform of the summary procedure for ordering payment (20th proposal), an evaluation of the relationship between banks and businesses (21st proposal), support for second chance entrepreneurship (26th proposal), the extension of the electronic invoicing (27th proposal), the strengthening of the SME test (30th proposal), the improvement of the accessibility of public procurement (31st proposal), the improvement of the legal framework for the exercise of liberal professions (37th proposal), the reform of the regulatory framework for the organisation of middle classes (38th proposal), and the valiance of crafts (39th proposal). Overall, the plan will be implemented with due regard for the administrative and budgetary control formalities. Some measures will be implemented throughout the legislative period. Others will soon be realized. I believe that about a quarter of the measures will have been implemented before the end of 2015. The 40 measures in the plan are not a signed programme. The plan can be complemented by new measures. In reading the plan, you have no doubt seen that the majority of the measures concern several members of the government. It goes without saying that each member of the government will remain responsible for the implementation of the measures contained in the plan relating to its powers. The plan will also be implemented with absolute respect for the federal model and the division of powers between federal and federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. But it seems to me that there is some budgetary impact. For example, the reform extends bankruptcy insurance. That certainly has a budgetary impact. I can understand that a lot of measures will be quick wins, changes to the legislation that meet the needs of SMEs. Even in case of budgetary impact, I urge you to achieve results with the implementation of your SME plan. I'm glad you'll report once a quarter. I understand that you will monitor the implementation closely. If we see progress by the end of 2015, we will be able to properly assess your work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u53	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u54	Minister, on February 2, 2015, the electricity transmission system's imbalance tariffs flew between 6:15 p.m. and 7:00 p.m. and 600 Euros/MWh. According to Elia's website, the volume of adjustment was only 180 MW upwards on 2 February. This volume of adjustment represents only a small fraction of the 1,600 MW of the adjustment resources that Elia normally had at her disposal between 18:00 and 19:00. The imbalance rates announced by Elia on its website on 1 February for 2 February between 18:15 and 19:00 for an upward adjustment of 100 MW were 85 euros/MWh and 438 euros/MWh for an imbalance of 300. Furthermore, no unanticipated shutdown of production units between 1 and 2 February is recorded on the Elias site. Minister, has such an imbalance tariff been observed before February 2, 2015? Could you explain the reasons for this surge in the imbalance tariff this February 2nd? Are measures envisaged to avoid the emergence of such a situation in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u55	Dear colleague, your question has received my best attention. Firstly, prices higher than 600 euros/MWh have already been observed in the past, but relatively rarely. In this regard, there is a price of 850 euros in May 2014 and 1,500 euros in April 2013. Prices of 300/400 euros are observed a little more frequently. Second, the imbalance tariff represents the marginal price of the activated reserve. Between 1815 and 1900, Elia had a volume of 1,650 MWh at its disposal. This volume is composed of different products that are activated according to a technico-economic merit order. Thirdly, Elia is constantly improving its publications and is working to better integrate specific units into these publications. It should be noted that the imbalance prices are free. In other words, any market participant has the opportunity to make offers at the price he or she wishes. The imbalance price is, by nature, more volatile than the wholesale price and reflects the real-time situation. This is an incentive for market players who, I would like to point out, are also paying the imbalance price.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u56	Minister, your finding is in a way the same as mine. I don't have a full solution. What concerns me in this case is the price of 600 euros/MWh, whereas only a whole part of what is normally still available, depending on the adjustment volumes presented by Elia, is used. Maybe we found ourselves in the face of a crash in the market. As you said, prices are totally free. If this type of phenomenon were to happen again, greater transparency might be required. Elia could in any case recall the different adjustment volumes available. As I just said, we may have found ourselves facing a surge in the market. Nevertheless, I believe that we should find a way to avoid this kind of disproportionate setback.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u57	I will interview Elia to see if one or the other strategy is planned in this case, very punctual.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u58	Mr President, Madam Minister, I come back to a question I asked you earlier. Article 8 of the Royal Decree of 16 October 1991 laying down the rules on the control and method of subsidy of CEN provides for grants in its budget each year. Parliamentary document No 497/18, namely the justifications for the budget, states that "for the implementation of investments relating to the physical protection of CEN's nuclear installations and materials, a multiannual budget has been drawn up. The commitment appropriations correspond to a certain extent to this budget." I am just quoting the justification for the 2015 budget. This document, whose content does not correspond to the budget allocated, states that "the commitment appropriation for 2015 is equal to that for 2014. The liquidation credit for 2015 is also the same as for 2014." As you know, in 2014 commitment appropriations amounted to EUR 3.2 million and liquidation appropriations to just under EUR 2 million. However, contrary to the justification of the figures and the "written" justification, these amounts are not reflected in the 2015 expenditure budget. For example, this budget provides for commitment and liquidation appropriations for the additional allocation to CEN for investments relating to physical protection to be EUR 0. Minister, in my previous more comprehensive question on the same subject, you mentioned the strengthening of the physical protection of the CEN. You said: "on the budgetary side, I can carry out an investigation, but I am not sure that the zero figure you were talking about affects the way this infrastructure was organised." On the basis of the information provided, Madam Minister, do you confirm your comments? When adjusting the budget, do you intend to support CEN in strengthening its physical protection? If so, will you allocate the appropriations, i.e. EUR 3.2 million or EUR 2 million? It must not be these figures as such. I imagine that the amounts can still be discussed. In this case, what amazes me is the difference between the text of the budget justification and the justification of amounts that do not correspond to the amounts shown in the columns. That is the central question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, when the budget note was presented in committee, Mrs Matz had already made this kind of observation to me. Indeed, I, too, had noticed some time before arriving in committee that difference that had challenged me. From the explanations I had received from the administration, it had emerged that at the time when the administration was preparing the budget documents, which are a huge brick, as you know, it relies on the previous year's budget and reproduces the same justifications until, as part of the new government's constitution, the arbitrations are carried out. That is what happened, and unfortunately, she explained to us that she had only the opportunity to adapt the figures that came out of the government agreement in the latter times when it had intervened and within a very short period of time ranging from 24 hours to less than a week and that she had not had time to adapt the justifications. I myself spontaneously justified this, particularly for the SCK-CEN and for the IRE, on the one hand, that everything that is research, development and medical application in the field of nuclear energy was something sufficiently visible in our country, particularly in terms of radioisotope and 90% of their export to the world, their quality being internationally recognized and on the other hand, the research carried out by the SCK-CEN, which also carries out the tests on the cracks of Doel 3 and Tihange 2. It was therefore necessary to review this situation in budgetary control. In addition, when the previous government first drew up the 2015 budget, since at the end of the legislature you had launched a cleanup, no request even for an extension had been made. That's what I see. I don't make it a cheese dish. I am also telling you that we have had an arbitration whose justifications have not been reached. With regard to the safety of installations, it is clear that our critical installations must be secured, especially after the events we have experienced. This is one of the priorities of this government. Securing these facilities, such as the SCK-CEN, which are nuclear facilities, is an even higher priority than other security priorities. The SCK-CEN is in the process of finalizing, under the supervision of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, an update of its multi-year investment plan to further improve facility safety in the specific context we know. My administration has sent me a budget proposal to this effect. Having said that, you know that the budgetary situation is narrow. Without calling into question the objective of safety and security, nor slowing down the pace of the necessary investments, I will propose to the government, in agreement with the management of the SCK-CEN, to spread over the period 2015-2019 the financing of the investments relating to the physical protection of the Center of Studies for Nuclear Energy. The appropriations for 2015 will be decided during the next budgetary control.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u60	Mr President, I welcome the minister's response. I can imagine that during the preparation of the budget, mish mash will appear. It is not always easy to match all the elements, especially when it is necessary to finish everything in a few days. You're telling me zero was a mistake. It happens! I've probably done it in the past. Still, zero is too little. It may not be possible to grant all applications from IRE or SCK-CEN. I imagine there will be a phase of discussion. Just know that, for our part, we will be extremely attentive to this line of the budget that will be presented to us during the budgetary adjustment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u61	Mrs. Dierick couldn't stay here. It may be appropriate for the reply to be given in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u62	Mr President, Minister, I read in the press over the last few weeks that the problem of the transition from low-caloric gas to high-caloric gas, known as H-gas, is becoming more and more topical. We do know that availability will fall in any case. People have known that for years, even decades. Pumping up gas in the Netherlands, especially in the region of Groningen, creates the necessary political fireworks and creates concerns. That concern has to do with landslides, seismic activity and so on. The shortage of low-caloric gas can eventually accelerate those processes. In recent years, there has also been virtually no investment in low-caloric gas infrastructure. At peak moments there are even shortages. One then mixes high-caloric gas with nitrogen to ensure that it can still be used as low-caloric gas. There are several ways of tackling the problem in the longer term. For example, permanent and structural separation of high-caloric gas and low-caloric gas could be achieved by mixing it with nitrogen. It is also possible to effectively convert the installations from low-caloric gas to high-caloric gas. The first possibility, the mixing, was considered by the CREG as an expensive option at the time. The other option would be preferable, but it would require checking 1.5 million installations and checking that they are suitable for this purpose. In the coalition agreement, the government provided for the creation of a national conversion fund, by analogy with the conversion of urban gas to natural gas at the time. What steps are being prepared to carry out the conversion effectively? Will there be a period when high-caloric gas will have to be transformed into low-caloric gas on a large scale or not? As a result, is there an additional price to be expected? And if so, what order of magnitude? Does this also require investments in Fluxys capacity in the mixing of these gases? Have you had contact with your regional colleagues on this subject, given that the distribution system operators must also take action? Finally, do you confirm the press estimates that the conversion cost should be estimated at some EUR 700 million? I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u63	Mr President, at the end of 2012, the Dutch government, Gasunie and GasTerra announced their intention to phase out the export of L-gas from 2020, following a meeting of the Gas Platform. In January 2014 the Dutch government decided to reduce Dutch production already in 2014 and in 2015 production will be further reduced. This would reduce exports to Germany from 2020 onwards and also to Belgium and France from 2024 onwards. The amount of EUR 700 million is an initial estimate communicated more than five years ago by the Association of Network Managers and this before the Netherlands announced the definitive cessation of exports. The first estimate has yet to be confirmed in the light of the conversion methodology to be applied to the total conversion of the Belgian L-gas market to an H-gas market by 2029. The answer to the second question is no. In the current state, no new H gas impoverishment units are planned by mixing with nitrogen to supplement the supply of L gas directly imported from the Netherlands. Two such units already exist in Belgium. This auxiliary conversion service is available to the market and can be found in Fluxys' catalogue of Auxiliary Commercial Services. The market should subscribe because they are likely to play a role in security of supply in peak winter conditions or at other times of the year in the event of an incident. Thirdly, in order to prepare for the transition from low-caloric to high-caloric gas, a coordinated and global approach is needed. The process of conversion is not new, since it has already taken place on several occasions in the past, for the first time in 1967 when urban gas was converted to natural gas, then in 1978 as a result of the arrival of rich gas. Moreover, since 1978, the date of the first conversion to rich gas, the appliances sold in Belgium have been suitable for burning both types of gas. In principle, the switch-over is also possible in the case of appliances by the final consumer. In order, among other things, to ensure that all appliances are in conformity, for devices purchased elsewhere and for pre-1978 appliances, and that they are well regulated according to the category of appliance, a set-up may be required and therefore a control of the installation must be provided. Such checks may result in an intervention on the installation. The four Member States using L-gas have jointly decided that the Gas Platform was the most appropriate consultation body. One of the tasks of the Gas Platform is to ensure regional coordination between the Benelux, France and Germany in order to ensure security of supply for Central Western Europe. A specific working group shall address all relevant issues, including optimal management coordination, taking into account the cessation of L-gas production in the region. Meetings shall take place every two years. The answer to the fourth question is yes. To address this issue, a specific sub-group for Federal/Regional Consultation has been established within the CONCERE Standing Working Group (ENOVER). Its role is to ensure good coordination of operations at national level. In addition to the regional authorities, who are invited to attend the meetings, the federal regulator and regional regulators, representatives of the relevant firms and representatives of Synergrid are also involved in the discussions. Synergrid, an organisation bringing together transmission system and distribution system operators and the Royal Belgian Gas Association (ARGB), at the request of the SPF Economy DG, was asked to propose a conversion schedule. By 2029, all appliances located in the L-gas network, i.e. low-calorific, will have to have been checked or even adapted to allow this operation. This operation will involve 1 500 000 connections, i.e. in the case of a spread of the operation over 10 years, for example, 150 000 connections to be checked on average per year. The ARGB is currently working, among other things, on the methodology to be followed at the level of low-pressure customers, in order to carry out the conversion operation in an efficient and safe manner. We hope that this low pressure network conversion methodology document will be available by the end of this year. It is only through the establishment of a well-defined methodology that it will be possible to establish the total costs associated with it. Moreover, by the end of September this year, more than one third of industrial customers located in the Albert Canal region, with some adaptations to their facilities, will be connected to the H transmission network, equivalent to 50,000 m3/h of converted capacity over the current 150 000 m3/h of industrial customers on the L network. Point five. All funding mechanisms are now possible. A reflection is ongoing with all stakeholders in order to identify the best option.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u64	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your reply on this matter. It's important that we take this file and go through with it, because we know it's coming. 2029 is quite clear, but we know that if the political fireworks continue in the Netherlands, it may be a little faster if necessary. It is wise to prepare ourselves well, so that the costs are spread over a sufficient number of years. By this, I mean that if the time limit for all installations to be checked is too much compressed, this will entail enormous costs. They must, of course, be translated directly to the users and to the national fund that we could use to do so. We are on the right track and we are preparing to do so as soon as it is clear how we can do this. We will undoubtedly hear a great deal more about this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u65	Minister, would you agree, in order to try to save time, that I turn all my oral questions into written questions if you give me the answers in hard copy?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u66	Certainly, with one exception on the issue of negotiations with Electrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u67	I therefore turn my questions Nos. 2317, 2318, 2319 and 2320 into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u68	My co-worker will give you a copy of the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u69	Madam Minister, like each committee, I would like to take stock with you of your negotiation with Electrabel on the possible extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2. As a reminder, in your December 19 interview you said that Electrabel was going to be "more transparent and more open". And in the last committee, you made it clear that the first contacts were quite constructive. All this is very good, but it does not help us at this stage to see more clearly on an extremely important subject. I therefore hope that your answer will be complete. Minister, where exactly are you? At the beginning of January, you announced that you were busy drawing up a list of the requests you considered useful for the Belgian State. What elements have you transmitted since then? During our last exchange, you also specified that contacts had been made with the management of Electrabel to define together the practical modalities of this global negotiation. What practical arrangements have you been able to agree on since then? I assume you've been able to make progress on this and you'll be transparent. In an interview with L'Echo on January 30, Electrabel's CEO announced that at that time no potential investors had emerged. However, this is an axis that you put forward as an essential part of your policy. What about several weeks later? I hope you turn your tongue in your mouth seven times before you answer me!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u70	Mr Nollet, it will not be easy because you ask me to go fast, but I can try to do the exercise! You know that a negotiation is not necessarily very transparent, not because we want to hide things, but because as long as there is no agreement on everything, there is no agreement on anything. This negotiation is therefore continuing its normal course. I confirm that each party, the Belgian State and Electrabel, has drawn up a list of its requests. That is where we are now. I shall mention a second point in a few moments. To your question about the points which have been included in this list and which have been transmitted since then, I will reply that they are part of the Lego of the construction. I can't afford to divulge them at this point. With regard to the second element, that is to say, the figures to be obtained from the CREG and the BNB, we will soon have them in full, and this is progressing. I told you that it would take some time. They were scheduled for the end of February. It's early March. The practical arrangements as well as the timetable are linked to the resumption of work on the basis of the lists of each individual in relation to the figures to be communicated to us. Soon, next week or in fifteen days, we will resume our exchanges and start working with our respective requests on the figures provided to us. It is in this context that the negotiations continue. You know that I have all the time, since the government's own deadline is November 30 of this year. We're far from it. As far as the external potential investor is concerned, it is still one of my demands and I look forward to seeing how things are going to evolve. Not all of this seems theoretical to me. This is quite feasible and we will continue the dialogue in this direction, in any case it is one of my demands, with Electrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u71	Mr President, Madam Minister, I note that in any case this remains your wish to have other investors, but there are still none, which is probably starting to be a problem. Besides, you say we have all the time in this case. At times, you say we have all the time, and at times, there's an emergency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u72	I'm saying I want to move forward without hanging out. I'm looking forward to it slowly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u73	You're slowly hurrying, but you're asking the Council of State for five days.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u74	I got them. They sent the text back to me after five days. You see that the Council of State is extremely efficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u75	I have no doubt about that, but you will castrate it in doing so, if I may allow myself this expression, since you know the rule in this matter, as I do: when you give five days, the Council of State is limited in the elements that it can analyse. On the one hand, you say that there is an emergency, on the other hand, you say that you are slowly hurrying and that there is all the time. This inconsistency is probably not going to help you in the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u76	This will help me, because I believe that an important element for Electrabel is to see the political will clearly expressed in the legal texts. That is entirely logical, and that is exactly what the Council of State replied to within the time limit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u77	Either there's an emergency, or there's no emergency. In this case, it is clear that there is no urgency, since there is just use of the Council of State to exert pressure on Electrabel potentially. There is no urgency in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u78	You know I'm not putting pressure on Electrabel, because it seems I'm on my knees in front of this company. You'd have to know...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u79	I know. That's why I'm talking to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u80	We will not agree today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u81	Mr President, Madam Minister, the regional and federal ministers of the previous government, of which my esteemed colleague Jean-Marc Nollet was a member, meeting within ENOVER, had asked the four energy regulators (CREG, Brugel, CWaPE and VREG), meeting under the acronym FORBEG, to produce a joint report on the adaptation of the regulatory framework for the development of demand management. The report was published on 3 February 2014 and the regulators concluded by mentioning that: "This report, however, is not an outcome but the premise of a work programme which is expected to continue in the coming months and years". You have repeated many times that you want to work on demand management. This will not solve everything, but there are real opportunities that need to be developed. I understand you cared. Minister, in the ENOVER Group, have any new decisions been made regarding the management of demand? If so, can you tell me the content of these decisions? Does this group follow up on the February 2014 FORBEG report on demand management? Do you intend to ask CREG to continue the work carried out as part of the FORBEG report? If so, what specific requests do you have or will you make to CREG? What concrete actions do you intend to implement at the federal level in the area of demand management? I would add that the awareness of possible shortages or delestages has at least had a positive effect, that of generating innovative ways of thinking. But if there is no regulatory framework, especially from a tariff point of view, they will encounter the lack of rules of the game to develop new economic activities or ideas. There will be some very good, there will be some farfetched but this regulatory framework is the key element that must come into being. I know it's not easy, you probably won't be able to do it yourself, but regulators need to be able to help us move this forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the development of demand management – as you have said and I really think – must be seen as a key element of an efficient electricity market in addition to a nationally based production capacity. All network operators at both the federal and regional levels can make use of market users to make the flexibility of their installation available on a voluntary basis. In order to capture the potential for flexibility in distribution networks, demand management and, in particular, erasure, i.e. the reduction of a levy by a consumer, may also be made available to Elias from points of access connected to the distribution network, either through an aggregator or directly as a user of the network. At this stage, there is therefore no need for further decisions at the level of the CONCERE-ENOVER group. However, I would like to point out that a draft bill containing various energy security provisions has been passed by the government to encourage demand-side resources such as consumer erasures. In this way, the preliminary draft partially transposes Directive 2012/27/EU, and in particular its Articles 15.4 and 15.8 referred to in particular in the FORBEG report of 4 February 2014. The draft legislation includes an electricity tariff guideline and a gas tariff guideline to remove transport incentives that could impede the participation of consumer erasures. The draft law entrusts the CREG with a general task of encouraging demand management and its participation in the market. This is a first step. Other measures, of course, can and should be taken at a later stage in the light of market developments. This preliminary draft consists of three chapters. The first concerns the ten-year extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2, the second, the creation of the energy fund for storage research and development, the third, the transposition of the European directive which deals with energy efficiency and which allows me to do what I have just explained to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u83	Including this specific task entrusted to the CREG?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u84	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u85	Perfect. At first glance, as much as the first chapter will generate debate, both the other two – on storage and demand management – are two elements that must mobilize our ability to innovate. I welcome this mission which will be entrusted to the CREG. I hope that the Commission will work in good agreement with regional regulators, who play a major role in this area. So I am very pleased that you have drawn their attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u86	Minister, you're going back to budget control. However, the expenditure on budgets is six times higher than the requests made by individual ministers. In relation to the 300 million envelope left to you, I would like to remind you of the importance of the IRE, given its world-renowned sector for its activities as a medical isotope supplier and located in the heart of Wallonia. To remain a leading player in the service of public health, it needs stable financial resources. You have decided to reduce IRE subsidies by over 83%! It's more than considerable! One cannot operate from year to year with a reduction of 83% in subsidies. Therefore, do you intend to correct the situation by reducing the savings imposed on the IRE during this budgetary control? Have budgetary bilaterals ever taken place in this regard? Is there any consultation with the IRE to analyse the impact of these savings measures on the services provided by the IRE?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u87	Dear colleague, the government has identified, as one of its priorities, excellence in research and the enhancement of nuclear medicine disciplines for the protection and treatment of the population. I will tell you from the outset that I visited the SCK-CEN on the one hand and that I met two key IRE people, Mr Busquin and another person, with whom I took a working trip to Vienna on nuclear applications. I had the opportunity to discuss with him further the situation of the IRE which is of great concern to me. Of course, the budgetary situation is narrowed. Choices must be made in 2015, but they must always be made. My administration is also in regular contact with the IRE in order to define, in the current context, the investment priorities for this legislature. Without calling into question neither the objective of maintaining IRE's position as a world leader in radioisotope production, nor our obligations to the IRE to which IRE attaches great importance, I will propose to the government, in agreement with IRE's management, to spread over the period 2015-2019, the financing of investments for IRE and the financing of its technical liabilities. The appropriations for 2015 will be decided during the next budgetary control. You are therefore right to recall this element, which is one of my important concerns, precisely on March 3, 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-03-54-commissie-ic102x.u88	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer and for your interest in the IRE. As I understand it, the spread you're talking about is that of the 83% discount. After four years, they will have a total of 83 per cent less budget. I hope that we will then have a discussion on the plan proposed by the IRE in relation to its tasks. Perhaps we could invite them to committee. I know, Mr President, that you are not the chairman of this committee, but the secretary is here to relay the information. It would indeed be interesting to know whether the budget cuts and your budget struggles will allow this beautiful institution to continue working in good conditions and maintaining its performance, without increasing the costs, I insist, for public and non-public hospitals that need these isotopes.
