ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u1	Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, we are starting our work. Ms. Evita Willaert, being ill, requested the postponement of her questions Nos. 1216 and 1563.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u2	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, on 12 January 2007 Belgium adopted a law known as "gener mainstreaming". It aims to integrate the gender dimension into all federal policies. Gender mainstreaming is precisely a strategy that aims to strengthen the equality of women and men in society, ensuring that all stages of the political process – development, implementation, monitoring and evaluation – take into account the gender dimension, i.e. the socio-economic differences that exist between men and women. The law of 12 January 2007 already provided for a gender test, but it was only finally established in the framework of the law of 15 December 2013 on various provisions on administrative simplification. The Royal Decree of 21 December 2013 implementing Title 2 of Chapter 2 of the said Law specifies in particular the composition and operation of the Impact Assessment Committee, the structure of the form and the advertising obligations. The impact assessment of regulations is, as the Institute for Gender Equality states, "a preliminary assessment of the potential consequences of draft regulations in the economic, social, environmental and public spheres". The analysis on gender equality thus allows the authors of regulations to know the impact of their project on the situation of women and men, and to correct it if necessary. Madam Secretary of State, what is your assessment of the application of the regulatory impact assessment and the gender test in particular? Has the Royal Decree implementing Title 2 of Chapter 2 of the Act of 15 December 2013 been effectively implemented so far? Have there been any clashes regarding its implementation? Is there any real improvement in gender mainstreaming in the various public policies that have been in place for more than a year? Should improvements be made to this regulatory impact assessment and its implementation? If so, which ones? Can you finally tell me to what extent the gender mainstreaming law and the gender test have been implemented as part of the socio-economic reforms decided by your government?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u3	Madam President, Mrs Winckel, thank you for your question. The Regulatory Impact Assessment (RIA) came into force on January 1, 2014 at the end of the previous Parliament. The implementation period is therefore very short given current affairs. An overall assessment, which is the responsibility of all actors involved in the AIR, should be carried out. The Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, as a member of the Committee for Impact Assessment and Assistance to the Helpdesk coordinated by the Agency for Administrative Simplification, has already been able to identify the lack of use of gender-disaggregated statistics and thus the difficulty of identifying differences in the situation between women and men. However, it is still too early to draw definitive conclusions. Awareness-raising among stakeholders should continue. For your second question, the evaluation of the Royal Order will make it possible to draw conclusions on possible improvements to this tool. This, which is new and concerns several areas, requires a learning time. I will endeavour, in collaboration with my colleagues, to emphasize the obligation to pay particular attention to the Royal Decree from the first stage of drafting the draft regulations submitted to the Council of Ministers, as well as to strengthen the production and use of statistics disaggregated by sex at the federal level. My cabinet is finalizing a gender mainstreaming note, which will be presented to the Council of Ministers in the very near future. In accordance with the Act of 12 January 2007 and the Royal Decree of 26 January 2010, this note will focus on: the appointment of representatives of the strategic units within the interdepartmental coordination group; the establishment of a federal gender mainstreaming plan, which will identify actions and certain government policies that have a gender dimension, i.e. those that may have a different impact on women and men; the implementation of the legal provisions by the federal administrations, with particular emphasis on the production and use of gender-disaggregated statistics.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u4	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. Do you already have an idea of the timing of the evaluation and the national gender mainstreaming plan you want to launch?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u5	The evaluation is under way. As for the plan, I hope it will be presented next week in the Council of Ministers. I am talking about my proposal to appoint administrative and political representatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u6	Could we schedule a committee meeting at which you would present this plan? Or is it still too soon?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u7	I will give a note to the Council of Ministers, so that there is a person delegated to gender mainstreaming in the administrations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u8	It's good to have moved on. We have come back more motivated than ever from our congress at the United Nations. You can already count on our support if you have any difficulty making yourself heard by your government colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u9	I'll call you! This note, which formalizes gender mainstreaming action, is already a good start.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u10	Madam Secretary of State, as you know, female genital mutilation, which is widespread in Africa, does exist within the European Union and our country is no exception. For example, a study conducted by the Institute of Tropical Medicine in Antwerp in 2014 indicated that just over 48,000 women and girls whose nationality is that of a country where female circumcision is practised lived in our country as at 31 December 2012. Of these, just over 13,000 were considered "very likely already excised" and just over 4,000 were considered "potentially at risk of excision". Flanders would be the most affected region, followed by Brussels and Wallonia. Article 409 of the Criminal Code, which entered into force on 27 March 2001, provides for imprisonment for "any person who has practised, facilitated or promoted any form of mutilation of the genital organs" of a woman, with or without her consent. Penalties are increased if the victim is a minor or if there is a lucrative purpose. However, it seems that the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office opened only one criminal case for excision in 2014 and that only 5 cases have been opened over the last 7 years. Can you first confirm these figures for the judicial district of Brussels? Can you tell us how many cases have been opened in the other judicial districts? How do you explain the discrepancy between this finding and the figures presented by the study of the Institute of Tropical Medicine? Can you finally take stock of the measures already implemented on this issue within the framework of the National Action Plan against Violence between Partners 2010-2014? What measures are you considering to raise awareness among professionals (health, police, prosecution, etc.) who can be confronted with the problem and thus enable real screening and better care for victims? I continue with my second question on awareness-raising and prevention. This year, two Belgian associations, the Group for the Abolition of Female Sexual Mutilation and the INTACT Asbl, decided to work together to create a national kit to prevent female genital mutilation for professionals. This initiative is also supported by the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. This prevention kit contains a set of useful and practical tools to help health professionals, social workers, the police – in short, all those working in the legal community, who often say they do not know how to respond adequately and effectively to a situation of genital mutilation of a girl or a woman. It includes a triptych with risk assessment criteria, which will allow the detection of cases of mutilation, a maintenance guide that will allow the issue of female circumcision to be addressed with girls and their families, or a passport "Stop female genital mutilation" recalling that Belgian law condemns and punishes these practices. During the presentation of this prevention kit, the two associations recalled the importance of having a national, comprehensive and coherent approach throughout the country to the fight against female genital mutilation and the need to disseminate this unique and national tool to all sectors concerned with this issue. Madam Secretary of State, can you tell us if you intend to support this initiative – if so, in what way? Do you intend to raise awareness of this prevention kit among your government colleagues, including the Ministers responsible for the Interior, Public Health and Justice, and encourage them to disseminate it to certain specific services of their administration? In consultation with the federated entities, do you think you can include an item on the promotion of this kit in the next national action plan 2014-2019, in order to ensure that this prevention kit is disseminated to all relevant administrations and sectors?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u11	Madam Secretary of State, my question concerns the prevention kit developed by the two organisations. I am not going to repeat what my colleague has said, but I would like to stress once again that in Belgium there are 13 112 women who are probably circumcised and 4 084 who are at risk of circumcision. In total, therefore, there are more than 17 000 women and girls staying in Belgium. I think it is particularly important to bring this to the fore. Genital mutilation has long-term physical and mental consequences and may even lead to death in some cases. They are a form of inhuman and degrading treatment which deprives the most fundamental rights of women and girls. Genital mutilation is denounced by a large number of international conventions. In Belgium, genital mutilation is prohibited by a specific law. I have already asked Mrs De Block this question, because the prevention kit is also about reproductive health. I understand that Mrs De Block wants to take the recommendations of both organisations to heart, but I also think it is up to you, Madam Secretary of State, to coordinate this matter. After all, this is not just a federal competence. It is also about prevention and regional powers. Madam Secretary of State, have you taken note of the recommendations of GAMS-Belgium and the INTACT association? Are you prepared to take these recommendations into account? If so, what concrete measures will you take? In what way do you cooperate with the Health Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your questions, for which I have a long answer. To answer the first question, the figures you are asking for relate to the criminal prosecution of cases of female genital mutilation. I have to send you back to the Minister of Justice who has these numbers. To give you an overview of what has been achieved so far in this area, I can provide you with the following information. In the action plan, Belgium has mainly opted strategically for a holistic approach to female genital mutilation, with particular attention to prevention and comprehensive monitoring of victims. The same strategy will also be pursued in the new national action plan. Various civil society organizations receive financial support from all levels of government to carry out preventive and awareness-raising activities and to organize training and workshops for target groups. The knowledge of female genital mutilation has increased, inter alia, through a study on the prevalence of genital mutilation, which was further refined in 2014. As of December 31, 2012, you know this figure, an estimated 13,000 girls and women are most likely already excised and more than 4,000 girls and women are at risk of being excised. A collective and participatory process was organized to analyse the action within the French Community. For example, think-tanks and networking days were held to develop a common frame of reference, analyse the situation and develop common strategies to engage in the fight against female genital mutilation. The Flemish Government has set up a subcommittee on female genital mutilation in the Flemish Kindermishandeling Forum. This body made several policy recommendations. A roadmap has been developed to detect the more vulnerable family through education. Collaboration has also been initiated with maternity clinics and the childcare sector to exchange data on women who have been victims of genital mutilation and thus prevent their children from suffering the same fate. At the national level, an intervention manual for health-care workers has been drafted. Awareness-raising campaigns had been launched and a brochure on professional secrecy had been drawn up. A project to register female genital mutilation was launched in 10 hospitals to determine whether better use of existing procedures would increase the number of cases recorded. The purpose of the registration project was to develop a monitoring system and required awareness-raising among the hospital services concerned. After awareness-raising, the number of registered cases of female genital mutilation has been 2.5 times higher than the average in the last six years, indicating an over-recording. It was, among other things, through a fact sheet on female genital mutilation and a correct recording of these cases that this problem began to receive more attention. Within INAMI, an annual budget of EUR 500 000 is currently foreseen to allow multidisciplinary treatment of women excised in two reference centres: the UZ in Ghent and the St. Peter's Hospital in Brussels. Also recently, the possibility of reporting cases of genital mutilation to the King's prosecutor has been created for professionals held to professional secrecy under very strict conditions. The draft national action plan which has just been transmitted to me contains various proposals for action which will focus mainly on the need for prevention, detection and prosecution in the event of FGM and on the importance of collaboration between the various parties concerned, namely Kind & Gezin, the CLB, the Flemish student support centre, the police and NGOs. These proposals for action have been taken up after consultation with the organisations concerned and will now be covered in intercabinet working groups. As far as your second question is concerned, alongside these measures, there is indeed also a tool kit for the prevention of female genital mutilation, developed by GAMS Belgium and the INTACT asbl with the support of my administration. This kit is intended to assist professionals facing cases of female genital mutilation. The fact that it was designed by specialised associations such as GAMS and INTACT, in collaboration with the institutions and departments concerned, makes it particularly innovative. I am thinking, for example, of the important triptych incorporating the risk assessment criteria, the risk scale and the decision tree developed on the Dutch-speaking side in partnership with the collaborators of the Vlaams Forum Kindermishandeling. It is therefore a very useful tool available to professionals because, as is well known, given these particularities, it is very difficult to combat this type of violence. The specialised associations are the central actors in the fight against female genital mutilation, as they offer help, listening and advice to women and girls who run or risk major medical, psychological and family dangers, dangers that are known to us. A comprehensive approach must be developed to enable actors on the ground, be they medical-social, police or judicial, to intervene radically and act together. I come to the question of kits. This toolkit to prevent female genital mutilation was thus included in the draft national action plan 2015-2019. Political negotiations on the adoption of this document are about to begin, as we are now fully preparing the national action plan, in order to insist on a strong commitment by the ministers concerned to the dissemination of this important instrument. Of course, the negotiations with the Minister for Health are also crucial for this. She is also fully involved in this. In order to be effective, the dissemination of this toolkit should form part of an overall strategy of prevention and be accompanied by training for the professionals concerned. Of course, it's not enough to just spread the toolkit. There must also be certainty that the recipients will receive additional training which will also enable them to treat, on the one hand, complications of genital mutilation and, on the other hand, to prevent them. The support mechanisms for women who have undergone genital mutilation, the strengthening of the capacity for action of the associations working in the field and the conditions for the discharge and integration of the gender dimension into asylum procedures are elements that I also raise in the context of the adoption of the new National Action Plan. I will therefore be particularly vigilant about the collective responsibility to counter this practice. It is a practice which unfortunately has a long-term effect on the physical and psychological integrity of women and girls and which we must try to ban as much as possible from our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u13	Madam Secretary of State, thank you. You're telling us that a budget is planned to support the associations. They are concerned, however, because they do not obtain clear information on the financial support that could be given to them. I heard you were talking about intercabinet working groups to think about this. It seems to me important for associations to be consulted, especially since some of them are doing remarkable work. I am thinking of GAMS, which had made several recommendations. It would be wise to set up a task force to go further and implement those recommendations. The national kit, which we have talked about, is something important, because it is unique in Europe. It is therefore important to support it financially so that it can be widely disseminated to the field players: teachers, social workers, medical aids, etc. This tool was very well designed. It would be a shame not to use it. I will therefore await your new plan to combat violence between partners and female genital mutilation. Do you have any idea when your plan will be released?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u14	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u15	Madam Secretary of State, I am particularly pleased that the issue has been included in the National Action Plan against Violence and that a budget is being set aside for the approach. The national action plan covers many forms of violence against women and there is a risk that some aspect will be underexposed or a little less attention paid to them. I think it is very good that the phenomenon is addressed in the national action plan. It is ultimately a form of violence against women, but please do not let it drown in that very big plan. After all, it is too important for the future of girls and women and it shows the way in which we deal with our various societies. I decide. First, I hear from the IKW good things and urge to maintain good contacts with the ministers of the subgovernments. That's where things go wrong. I would like to endorse my colleague's call for civil society to be involved, as it has direct contacts with those involved and it is a very delicate issue, which is always under the radar. I believe that civil society is best placed to collect and work on information on this issue. Secondly, I urge proper registration. Genital mutilation is prohibited by law. I think it's very important that we register properly. I know that's hard and delicate. I think we need to find a proper system to record what I think are crimes. I think we should at least go further with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u16	It will be necessary to see the organization of the work of the Health Commission after Easter. Until Easter, the works are organized. The secretariat of the commission will contact your firm and others to see what time may be set for dealing with a particular subject, including this plan. We will then agree on a date in the weeks following Easter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u17	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, the concept and adoption of positive actions in certain situations is defined by the anti-discrimination laws of 10 May 2007 as the specific measures designed to restore balance between various groups of people in the population. They aim to put an end to a manifest inequality whose disappearance has been designated as an objective to be promoted. They must be temporary and capable of disappearing as soon as the objective is achieved. The laws provide, however, that the assumptions and conditions under which a positive action measure can be implemented must be laid down in a royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers and after consulting the advisory bodies which the law determines. To date, no affirmative action measure can legally and validly be adopted since there is no legal basis. In your political guidance note, you stated that you want to implement this measure and aim for greater de facto equality between people. Madam Secretary of State, could you provide an update on the work in progress on this issue? Have you ever started discussions with your colleagues? Have the various advisory bodies already been consulted? During the previous legislature, your predecessor had told us that a draft order was about to be reached. Do you intend to start from this working base to resume discussions? Are you also planning to set up an appeal committee to give an opinion on appeals against positive action missions? If so, what will be its composition?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u18	Madam President, dear colleague, you have rightly raised the absence of the implementing orders for the 2007 Anti-Discrimination Act. As I outlined in my policy note, this task is indeed a priority. As regards the work under way in the context of this dossier, we have already attended several necessary preparatory meetings with the various advisory bodies, in particular the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men and the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities. In addition to the enforcement action to be taken in this area, as required by the Gender Act, it is desirable to develop a framework within which these positive actions can develop. Nevertheless, this is a complex matter. Indeed, in the context of the parallelism sought by the legislator, the three anti-discrimination laws formulate the same requirement for all the criteria of discrimination. Moreover, the need to frame the matter in a royal decree is not limited to employment but also relates to the area of access and the provision of goods and services. Work will continue very soon, taking these elements into account. I have also read the various works carried out and envisaged by my predecessor. This work can certainly be a source of inspiration. With regard to the possible establishment of an appeal board, I am happy to refer to the previous legislature. The National Labour Council had then given a relevant opinion. It had to give its opinion on binding opinions on positive action in both the public and private sectors. The National Labour Council had given a negative opinion in that regard. He had expressed his support for the private sector in the sense that it did not adhere to an a posteriori approach whereby an administrative commission would sanction practices clearly falling within the scope of social dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u19	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. You're starting from what exists, which reassures me. It is true that these are difficult measures to implement and, in the light of your general policy note, I wanted you to give me assurances in this regard. When I interviewed Ms Milquet in November 2013, she replied that her text was submitted for the opinion of the National Labour Council, Committee A and the Finance Inspectorate. These difficult measures require very broad reflection. I therefore welcome the fact that you are not part of a white sheet, but of a text that already existed. Indeed, these are important issues that should enable these positive actions to be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u20	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, the Day against Violence against Women took place on 25 November last. As a woman, I can only rejoice at the official recognition of this problem. However, I am surprised to see very little concrete in your general policy note on domestic violence against men. Some reports tend to show that men are also, unfortunately, increasingly being abused by their spouses, more likely to use words rather than blows. It is therefore a matter of being very attentive to it. Madam Secretary of State, have recent studies been carried out on this issue? Can you give me the numbers in your possession? Do you not find that the lack of specific support tools for men who have experienced domestic violence, even though they exist for women, is a source of discrimination? Do you intend to integrate this theme more significantly into the next National Plan of Action to combat violence between partners? In general, do you intend to take specific measures to address this issue? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u21	Madam Chair, Madam, my administration has conducted a survey of both the female and male population to understand the reality and to understand gender differences. The latest large-scale Dark Number survey in Belgium was entitled "Women's and Men's Experiences in Psychological, Physical and Sexual Violence" and dates back to 2010. Here are some of the results of the survey on partner violence over the past 12 months. 12.5% of respondents reported having been victims of violence at least once by their ex-partner in the past 12 months. This represents 14.9 per cent of women and 10.5 per cent of men. With regard to psychological or verbal violence, 11.9 per cent of women and 9.7 per cent of men were victims. In the area of physical violence, 1.9% of women and 0.8% of men are victims of physical violence. In the area of sexual violence, 0.9 per cent of women are victims of sexual violence. Women are more often victims of serious and very serious violence than men. The difference between women and men is more evident in the seriousness of violence. It should be noted here that gravity is a combination of frequency and type of violence relative to the total percentage of violence. For moderate-to-very-serious levels of violence, it is still about 5 per cent of women who are victims of such violence. Among men, this percentage fluctuates: 5.3% of men are victims of moderate violence, 3.4% are victims of serious violence and 1.7% are victims of very serious violence. Let us now turn to the specific themes. In 2009, a survey was carried out on the factors influencing boys and men of foreign origin in Belgium in their choice of partner. The purpose of this survey was to understand the processes determining the choice of partners and the conclusion of marriage for men of foreign origin and to know their views on pre-marital relationships, divorce, cohabitation outside marriage, etc. The purpose of this survey was also to collect information on the nature, extent and consequences of arranged and forced marriages among men of foreign origin in Belgium. This resulted in recommendations to ensure that policy, prevention and support services were more responsive to the needs of boys and men of foreign origin. I would also point out that information for citizens about partner violence is always written without any gender restrictions. I am thinking, among other things, of the brochures Violence, how to get out of it? And break the silence. The website www.inter-partner violence.be is also written without any gender restrictions. Awareness campaigns, on the other hand, target female victims, male victims or both. As part of the assistance offered to men who are victims of violence, I would like to refer to the study day organised in 2013 on the theme "Men who are victims of discrimination and violence". This day of study is the result of a collaboration between the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men and the various Belgian men's organizations. As I said earlier this week, my administration handed me the draft national action plan. The consultations to prepare this new national action plan have also paid significant attention to this issue. Participation in these specific workshops helped to identify the needs and demands around this issue. These consultations, combined with national and international research, have revealed that existing support initiatives that are now aimed primarily at women victims of domestic violence cannot be organized or replicated to male victims. It is important to know the needs of men who are victims of domestic violence. However, it is already apparent from a consultation with my administration that this draft plan highlights the problems men face when they are victims of domestic violence. I will make a contextual assessment of the various measures taken in this regard. It will also be a way for us to identify the shortcomings of the current policy and then launch initiatives in an efficient manner for male victims of domestic violence because we are for the equality of women and men.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u22	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I will allow myself to come back to the issue once we have knowledge of your plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u23	You are right to stress the importance of this issue. We're always talking about violence against women. Unfortunately, many men are also victims of violence. Every victim is a victim of too many.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u24	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, before the end of the legislature you may have a national plan to tackle violence against men. I'm looking forward to that. However, I fully agree with the honourable Member and with you that this is indeed equally important. The fact is that every person who is the victim of violence is one too many. Unfortunately, according to police statistics, nine out of ten victims are still women. Let me quote some figures. In 2013, according to police statistics, partner violence claimed 162 fatalities. There were 39 746 reports of partner violence that year, which means that someone dies every two days because of partner violence. As has been said, nine out of ten victims are women, but that really doesn't matter because at least there is one too many, especially if we know that partner violence is still a very strong taboo and that only the tip of the iceberg appears in police statistics. The Institute for Equality between Women and Men, together with many women's organisations, has been working for years to ensure that women report partner violence. They also strive to help the perpetrators. They are in favour of training professionals, including the police and the judiciary, although I would add that significant steps have been taken in this respect in recent years. However, they also advocate that general practitioners should be trained in a good way because they often form the first line; they are the ones in whom women arrive first. Often, general practitioners do not know how to deal with this or even recognize the problem. They often do not know when to remove their professional secrecy in this respect and to refer their patients. Often they do not recognise complaints of anxiety, insomnia and depression as possible manifestations of domestic problems or domestic violence, while a number of targeted questions could expose partner violence. I would therefore like to ask you explicitly the following question. I come back to what I just mentioned in my first question, in particular your coordinating role. We are talking here about justice, about home affairs, about police, of course, and about health. What actions will you take to encourage your colleagues in the government to integrate the problem of partner violence into their policies? I assume that this point is also addressed in the national action plan, but I wonder what the specific recommendations to your fellow Members are. I would point out once again that every point must be given attention and that no one should drown in the great A-plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u25	Madam President, as I said, there is the national action plan against combating gender-based violence, where partner violence remains one of the main priorities. I will take this opportunity to explain that action plan. It is built around the Istanbul Convention. It includes the six p-words that, in order to understand it both in Dutch and in French, are in English and are central, namely participation, policy, provision, prevention, execution and protection. On participation, policy and provision, namely participation, provision and policy, the action plan was drawn up following various consultations with various experts in the field, NGOs, civil society and women's organisations, both at national and international level. On the basis of the signals received by the administration from those consultations, it has developed several recommendations and proposals for actions. In this way, we hope that the action plan will also provide a real answer to the questions on the ground. An inventory of the actions already carried out or currently planned has also been drawn up. In this way we will also have a look at the actions launched by previous governments and avoid reinventing hot water and doing unnecessary work. On the other hand, we can look at what the work has already done. The proposal for an action plan has already been discussed with the various departments concerned so that they can support and examine all actions. I will use it as a basis for further discussions in the government. I will not only do that in the government, but I will also, as you yourself have said, draw attention to the important regions of the island of Styria, the various inter-Kabinette working groups and my fellow Members involved in the proposal for an action plan. These negotiations will show the commitments of my various colleagues involved in the government, because, as I said earlier and as you yourself said, equal opportunities is indeed a cross-cutting competence. I will therefore take this opportunity to encourage my fellow Members in the government to integrate this problem into their own policies. The final negotiated document will then also be submitted to the Inter-Ministerial Conference. The Action Plan covers all different stages when policies can intervene in the light of gender-based violence. It deserves both a preventive and a reactive policy. This therefore fully supports the three other p-words of the Istanbul Convention, namely prevention, execution and protection, which are thus covered. In your question you mention the various important aspects. The current proposal for an action plan consists of more than hundreds of proposals for actions still to be presented. For me, however, it is important that this action plan be developed on the basis of the basic principles of CSR. A coordinated policy must also be pursued by developing effective cooperation between all professional actors affected by partner violence. Coordination and cooperation between ministers are important but certainly also between professionals in the field. Cooperation between all involved partners and actors is necessary to stop the violence and to provide the victims with the appropriate response. In addition, we also seek a political commitment from all governments and ministers concerned to regard this struggle as a priority. The multisectoral and holistic approach must be the guiding principle throughout the policy against gender-based violence. The many shocked reactions that emerged from the publication of these figures show that, although the public taboo on partner violence has been broken, there is still a great need for awareness campaigns among the general public, as well as specific target groups and victims. The various professional actors should also receive sufficient information on this particular phenomenon during their training to enable them to recognise it. In this context, it is also important to draw up a reporting code for the different actors so that they can respond appropriately when dealing with partner violence, for example in their practice. That, of course, is not enough. It is very important that a rapid and appropriate police and judicial response is provided to victims of partner violence. All victims must also be adequately and appropriately covered within the aid. We must not lose sight of various vulnerable groups, as well as the offer of assistance to perpetrators and children exposed to partner violence. In short, the development of policies to combat gender-based violence will be on our negotiating tables very soon. I mainly aim at coordinated and cross-governmental work through participation with and the commitment of all actors and actions within the domains. The Institute for the Equality of Women and Men will continue to play an important role in the further coordination of policies, both at national and local level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u26	Madam Secretary of State, your answer is in the direction I suspected. I am particularly pleased that so much attention is being paid to this issue. You say the taboo is more or less broken. Let's just say it's a little less than ten years ago. However, anyone who looks at the site can see that the taboo is still very large. I would like to underline this because we must continue to pay attention to this issue. If we manage to do something with all known cases, it is already a good thing, but I am convinced that much remains under the radar. In the field, this is clearly heard by aid workers. In any case, I wish you much courage to encourage, encourage and support your fellow Members over and over again. I will regularly question you and your fellow Members on this, because it is a very important issue. You are playing a key role in this respect, and I hope you will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u27	Question No 2260 by Mr Daerden is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u28	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, when I look at the committee's agenda, I notice that many legitimate questions are being asked about discrimination against different groups. I would like to draw attention to a possible new discrimination, which is linked to a striking demographic evolution, namely the increase in the number of people living alone in our country. Policy makers have been talking about ageing for a long time or the fact that families are smaller than, for example, 30 years ago. That family reunification is indeed more and more manifesting. When one looks at the number of people living alone in Flanders, one sees an incredible increase. Ten years ago there were 750 000 and this figure would grow to 934,000 in 2028. In central cities such as Brussels, Ghent, Antwerp and Leuven, this is striking. Yesterday, the City Monitor of my own city of Leuven showed that there would even be 47.7% living alone there. As mentioned earlier, this is a group that is rising, weird but true, but for which policy makers do not seem to have any real eye. However, people living alone face many challenges. They are more financially vulnerable, there is an increased risk of poverty and loneliness. They also often end up in the well for tax purposes. For example, single residents cannot use the marriage quotient and the increase in the duty-free sum. They also fall off the boat at Flemish level. Think of the high rate of inheritance tax or the extra advantage that families have with regard to double deduction of service cheques. The private housing market has not been adapted either. These concerns are already shared in the Flemish Parliament. For example, your Flemish fellow Minister for Equal Opportunities has stated that she is aware of this sociological evolution and that she wants to pay due attention to it. This is, of course, not just a Flemish problem, hence my questions to you. Are you aware of this demographic evolution and of this problem? If so, how do you feel about this? Do you intend to take initiatives to address the inequality that threatens to arise? Do you intend to discuss this with your colleague in the Flemish government?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u29	Mrs Hufkens, I am indeed aware of this problem. She has come to my attention not only in terms of my competence for equal opportunities but also in terms of the fight against poverty during many discussions on the position of single people and, more specifically, single women. This is the feminisation of poverty that is seen by the large number of single women knocking on our OCMW's door. Indeed, it is clear that the disadvantages of the position of people living alone are not confined to women. Every time the position of single people gives rise to a difference in treatment which amounts to discrimination, here, I believe, there should be the possibility of suing that discrimination. It's just here that the shoe wrings. In Belgium, we have several institutes focusing on discrimination-related complaints, in particular the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. Both have a strong mandate as described in the instrument of incorporation. However, certain forms of discrimination do not appear in these acts. Unless they can rely on another criterion, single people are at risk of falling off the boat in the area of complaint handling. An additional disadvantage is that no figures are therefore kept. Often it is statistics that wake up and encourage action by policy makers at different levels. Unfortunately, we do not have this in this very specific target group. I have therefore committed myself to change this by establishing human rights mechanisms as mentioned in the government agreement. Existing gaps can be overcome within this mechanism. For example, victims of discrimination who are currently falling through the loopholes of the network may end up in a different way and elsewhere. Wherever possible, we can take the necessary measures when we find that people experience negative consequences as a result of their status as single people. For example, there is currently a study on the objectification of maintenance benefits after divorce. This should enable individuals to anticipate the financial consequences of leaving their partner. In a further policy, I will charge this less well-known target group. The above initiatives are of a federal nature. At the same time, I am also prepared to consult with the Communities to take useful initiatives together. I think that this is a target group that may be discriminated against more and more, inter alia, because they are often not included in the policy as an existing group.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u30	Madam Secretary of State, I like your answer very much. You are taking a clear position. There may be effective discrimination against single people. You take on a lot of work to sue and solve that. I look forward to it. We have to be honest: the classic family is becoming less and less the norm. We need to focus more on single people. That is a very good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u31	Mr. President, Secretary of State, the 2014 report entitled "Implementation of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action (1995) and the outcome of the twenty-third special session of the 2000 General Assembly in the context of the twentieth anniversary of the Fourth World Conference on Women and the adoption of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action in 2015" contains many interesting information, some of which relates to the collection of data on violence against women. This is a particularly important topic. With regard to violence, the report states that, I quote, "it is essential to collect quantitative data disaggregated by age and sex in order to improve the perception and understanding of violence and to assess the impact of actions on victims and perpetrators. At present, however, Belgium does not fully cover a collection of data on the basis of sex; this poses difficulties in terms of evaluating its policy" and, in particular, necessarily with regard to women. In addition, a study on the experiences of women and men in psychological, physical and sexual violence was carried out in 2010 by the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. The objective of this study was to gain a better understanding of the physical, sexual and psychological violence experienced by women and men because of their gender, as well as the risk and protective factors. The report refers to the need to update these data by means of a new study. It was, I recall, in 2010. So it wasn't yesterday. This study provides responses to eight of the nine indicators of violence against women, as adopted by the United Nations Statistical Commission. With regard to indicator 9, the report refers to a quantitative study of the prevalence of excise women and girls at risk of excision in Belgium, carried out on the initiative of Public Health and an update of these data, which would be under way. The report also states that during 2014, the Institute wishes to launch work on indicators on gender-based violence, by establishing coordination between the various entities concerned. Madam Secretary of State, gender equality is obviously a cross-cutting issue; do you have contacts with your colleagues not only in the federal government but with other levels of power about the importance of gender equality and the need for gender-based data? Clearly, there is a deficiency in this area in Belgium. I am thinking in particular of your colleagues, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior when it comes to violence. Do you intend to renew the study on women's and men's experiences with psychological, physical and sexual violence in order to obtain more up-to-date data? Could you also inform us about data on the prevalence of excise women and girls at risk of excision in Belgium? Is the update of the data completed in relation to this study by the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men? What are the results? Could you inform us about the Institute's work on indicators of gender-based violence?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u32	Madam President, given the cross-cutting nature of the fight against gender-based violence, a national action plan involving the Federal State, the Communities and the Regions is the most effective way of bringing together all the actors concerned around an integral and integrated approach. Since 2001, therefore, the commitment has been to systematically strengthen the national action plan to combat gender-based violence through new measures. In collaboration with the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, as I explained to colleagues Winckel and Jiroflée earlier, we finalized the draft of the new action plan 2015-2019, in consultation with the federal, community and regional departments concerned. The project also builds on the results of consultations with civil society and reports from national and international NGOs and therefore includes many policy recommendations. I will submit this draft action plan to my relevant federal, regional and community colleagues and negotiate it at specific inter-cabinet meetings. The collection of quantitative data and the need for gender-disaggregated statistics will be among the issues discussed at these meetings. This new action plan will then be submitted for approval at an interdepartmental conference. To answer your second question, it is indeed necessary to update this data in order to benefit from a better idea of the occurrence, forms and severity of violence experienced by women and men on the basis of their gender. In addition, the objective is to obtain an overview of the effectiveness of the policy since 2010. The Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence recalls the need for regular population-based surveys in order to provide an overview of the importance, nature, determinants and consequences of gender-based violence. I support the renewal of the 2010 study in order to measure the evolution of the problem and to have more up-to-date figures. This point is included in the draft of the new 2015-2019 action plan to combat gender-based violence. However, the launch of this study still needs to be discussed given its budgetary impact. The prevalence study of excise women and girls at risk residing in Belgium was updated in 2014. As at 31 December, 48,000 women and girls whose original or present nationality is that of a country where female circumcision is practised lived in Belgium. The study estimates that of these 48,000 women and girls, 13,000 are probably already excised and 4,000 are potentially at risk of excision. The study shows an increasing prevalence compared to 2008. This is mainly due to the reception of first-time arrivals from countries affected by female circumcision and births in affected communities between 2008 and 2012. The study found no significant differences in the geographical areas most affected: Brussels, Antwerp and Liège. Guinea, Somalia and Egypt are still the most represented countries of origin among the female population concerned in Belgium. The use of indicators on gender-based violence makes it possible to analyse the nature and severity of gender-based violence and its root causes, to show the differences between women and men, but also to assess progress made in the prevention of gender-based violence in the light of national action plans. This is why the Institute wishes to draw up a regular picture of the problem and the evolution of gender-based violence through a systematic quantitative information collection in line with European indicators. This will be part of the implementation and follow-up of the new national action plan to combat gender-based violence, building on the interdepartmental group that brings together representatives of federal, community and regional departments involved in this national action plan. The aim will be to ensure that statistics can be disaggregated by sex in all fields and to determine how these statistics can be connected, centralized and processed by the Institute. For example, it will be necessary to draw up as complete a statement as possible of the places available at national level for victims of gender-based violence or to collect statistics on the treatment of perpetrators of such violence: repression, alternative punishment, voluntary assistance. Improvements will certainly have to be discussed in the course of this work. Thus, in judicial terms, since June 2013, it has been possible to register the sex of victims in all cases, regardless of the code of prevention. However, registrations are not sufficiently systematic to be able to collect reliable statistics. These various gaps should therefore be addressed. More generally, the Institute will continue its role of supporting policy through the observation, detection, collection, monitoring, monitoring and evaluation of the situation, the evolution of strategic developments, areas for improvement and the impact of the policy, including through the development of opinions and recommendations or the initiation of scientific research. In addition, in collaboration or on its own initiative, the Institute will continue to develop regular awareness-raising and prevention activities for victims, perpetrators, witnesses and professionals.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u33	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I have several elements. First of all, it was time to move forward in the 2015-2019 action plan. I hope that you will come to a conclusion within a short period of time. You have not committed yourself to a date, but I dare imagine that in the coming months you will be able to reach a cross-cutting agreement. Secondly, in addition to ministerial initiatives, one of the major levers for action in this national plan is, of course, the Institute for Gender Equality. You mentioned the budgetary constraints on the famous data collection study. It's one element among others. The Institute works well. That is why I believe it is essential to give it the necessary resources. Finally, I asked you about the study on excised women and girls, especially those at risk. The public has heard little about it. Yet it sheds light on policies that can make them more effective – especially in terms of prevention. When we see the thousands of girls and young women at risk, it is important to prevent them from being subjected to excision. You recalled that it is essentially the three major cities in Belgium that are concerned. We could try to strengthen the strategy towards these young women at risk with local associations and authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u34	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, as you know, the Housing First project is a social innovation project aimed at combating homelessness and promoting integration through housing and accompaniment. This project was launched in 2013 by your predecessor, Mrs De Block. The project is structured around six initiatives in five major cities: Ghent, Liège, Charleroi, Antwerp and Brussels. After months of preparation, the first homes were allocated on 1 September 2013 to homeless people. Today, the cities associated with this project continue the work already done since 2013. At present, the evaluations issued by the Steunpunt Algemeen Welzijnswerk, the Brussels Forum for Combating Poverty and the Charleroi Social Relay are quite positive. You said yourself, a few weeks ago, that the first interim report was quite encouraging. As of September 2014, 84 people had benefited from Housing First's accompaniment, leaving the emergency cycle. During the former legislature, the Secretary of State, Mrs De Block, had dedicated the envelope of the National Lottery, allocated to each minister, i.e. 860,000 euros, to this project. During the discussion of your guidance note, you said you wanted to consider whether you could extend support for these initiatives. So what about the sustainability of this project? Will we face recurring funding or will the envelope of the National Lottery still be devoted to it? Were the funds released? Indeed, the social experimentation on the ground will come to an end in June 2015. The results appear to be quite convincing at the moment. Possibilities arise. You made a wish. Do you confirm all of these elements? Are further assessments being considered? It is a project and it is important to examine whether indicators are being met. Do you confirm the extension of the project to other cities or municipalities, even smaller ones, as you said last December?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u35	Madam President, Mr Massin, I have recently had the opportunity to speak on the subject that has your attention. I am indeed in favour of supporting the project and the measures inspired by an evidence-based policy approach. That is why the Housing First Belgium project is in line with my vision of the strategies to be put in place to combat homelessness and the absence of home. In addition to obtaining financial support in collaboration with the National Lottery, I also intend to address the issue of the dissemination of this kind of good practice with my colleagues at the Interdepartmental Conference Integration into Society. In response to your questions, I decided to extend the Housing First Belgium experiment. To do this, I instructed my administration to investigate a file in order to obtain the collaboration of the National Lottery, in order to ensure the financing of the project for an additional year. The managing director of the National Lottery has already been informed accordingly. The extension of the project will be accompanied by specific commitments in terms of results – including the number of beneficiaries – and knowledge management, evaluation of the cost/benefit of the approach. During my meeting with my counterparts in the Regions, I will draw their attention to the importance of developing and sustaining this type of good practice, given the competences of each level of power, as advocated in the cooperation agreement on homelessness and the absence of home. The Housing First Belgium project will expand to other medium-sized cities or municipalities experiencing an increase in the phenomenon of homelessness. I selected the cities of Hasselt, Namur and Molenbeek. The practical arrangements for this enlargement are being prepared. A steering committee meets periodically. I am kept regularly informed of progress and intermediate results. In 2016, I will present the final results using a work in progress, explaining the ins and outs of the project and developing a manual of good practice according to the Housing First model.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u36	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your positive replies, which confirm the noise in the sector. As president of the CPAS de Charleroi, I am a member of the board of directors of the Relais Social de Charleroi, which also provides coordination for the whole of Wallonia. It is an excellent thing that you have been able – or wish – to obtain a one-year extension of this file, with the intervention of the National Lottery. That there are commitments to be met is obvious, since we are in a project phase. Then we will see what good collaboration can be established with the Regions to ensure the sustainability of this approach. In this respect, I believe that questions will be asked to the Walloon Parliament, to the Minister Prévot; I have no doubt for a second that the same will apply to the Flemish Parliament. Extension seems to me to be a good initiative. The five major cities face a concentration of homeless people, even if they are not the only ones. In Brussels, this is the case for Molenbeek, but it is also the case for other municipalities in the Brussels Region. In Namur, the tragic event that took place less than two weeks ago confirmed the presence of homeless people. The project is under way. An evaluation will be carried out. The good practice guide is also an excellent initiative. I hope that tomorrow, in the framework of cooperation agreements but also inter-ministerial collaborations, a structured policy on this subject can finally be put in place. This will, of course, require action by the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u37	In order to have a structural solution, the project had to be launched. But we did not have enough time, with an evaluation scheduled for 2016. If we extend the project, the evaluation can be carried out. On the basis of the results, we can look for a structural solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u38	Madam Secretary of State, on 27 March the E3 Prize Harelbeke will be held for the 58th time in Harelbeke. It is a cycling race that gets a lot of publicity every year because of its posters that always appeal to allusions. I brought some posters from previous years. For example, win in Harelbeke, not children's games with children underneath. Who's the fastest in Harelbeke? The fastest in the West Flemish means the handsomest, so also an allusion. Every year, that poster gets a lot of attention. This year they received a little more attention from the design of the poster. On that poster we see the allusion to the famous cyclist Peter Sagan, for the people who are familiar with the cycling world. A few years ago, Peter squeezed Sagan in the ass of a flower girl on stage when he won. At that time, this action was already subject to a great deal of consternation, and I think it is right to do so. Peter Sagan did apologize extensively in the media back then. He also apologized to the flower girls. It was known that this was not possible, and everyone responded to it in that way. Meanwhile that has become a joke in the cycling world and the allusion on the poster is quite clear. With cyclists it was a joke, but the poster did cause great consternation in Flanders because of vulgar and sexist. According to the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, the poster would also discriminate against the dignity of women. On the eve of the race, the organisation decided to remove the posters along the course. A decision taken after the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men threatened to file a complaint against the organization. According to an official press release by the Institute, the poster would encourage sexual harassment. As a result of this event, I would have liked to ask you a number of questions. Has the institute effectively filed a complaint against the organisation of the E3 prize? How many such complaints has the Institute submitted in the period 2010-2014? I would have liked to have a division in function of the language area. How does this complaint fit into the institute's assignments package? How are we supposed to situate that within their fields of action?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u39	On 24 February 2015, the institute received a complaint about the advertising campaign of the E3 Harelbeke. Following this complaint, the organisers of the E3 Harelbeke were immediately contacted. The Institute is always trying to find an out-of-court solution. The competition will take place on 27 March 2015. The file's still running. No official complaint has been made at the moment. Since the competition still has to continue, the institute continues to monitor the situation closely. The institute has taken similar initiatives in three files: Rent-a-wife in 2007, Sipwell in 2010 and the Gamma giggling kittens in 2013. These were campaigns that were active throughout Belgium. The Institute is an autonomous federal institution that monitors compliance with the laws to promote equality between women and men. The precise assignments of the Institute are governed by the Founding Act of 16 December 2002. In implementing this law, the Institute should combat discrimination and exclusion on the basis of gender and develop tools and strategies based on an integrated view of gender issues. In the context of this legal mission, the Institute may take note of complaints, give advice, mediate and, if necessary, take legal action. The Institute shall, inter alia, monitor compliance with the law of 10 May 2007 on combating discrimination between women and men. Article 19 equates sexual harassment to a prohibited form of discrimination. Under Article 10, there is sexual harassment, and I quote, where any form of unwanted verbal, non-verbal or physical behaviour occurs with a sexual connotation with the purpose or effect of affecting the dignity of a person, in particular when a threatening, hostile, offensive, humiliating or offensive situation is created. According to Article 27, anyone who initiates discrimination is guilty of a crime. The Institute's opinion is that the campaign at issue leads to discrimination in the sense of sexual harassment because it affects the dignity of women and creates a threatening, hostile, offensive, humiliating or offensive environment for female spectators and hostesses. Personally, I believe that imaging is still important. The poster is a wink at what happened. We must be aware that stereotyping in equal opportunities is still very strong, and we must counter the stereotyping of women and men by certain posters. However, we must not cramp either. Stereotyping is in our imagery in advertising, but also in textbooks, schoolbooks, thought and professions more widely than we think. I am not cramped in some advertising, but I do think we should be attentive to everything related to stereotyping.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u40	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. I think the organisation should be very pleased that no complaint has yet been made. In the meantime, she has received more advertising, so it is a good thing for her all in all. I agree that discrimination against women is still strong in posters and in advertising. I absolutely want to distance myself from that. However, as you pointed out, we must be careful not to cramp in our reaction to this. I fear that threatening to complain about something that is actually intended to be funny is more likely to cause a tightening-up in relation to the group which is now supposed to be discriminated against. We have to be careful with that. I agree that there is still a great deal of discrimination, especially in the workplace, with glass ceilings, and so on. We all know them, but if we react in this way to sometimes somewhat miserable facts, the danger may arise that we will be viewed in a cramped way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u41	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, on the occasion of the International Day for Women's Rights, I had the pleasure of being invited to a panel discussion on 9 March 2015 on the subject of tightening the rules on family reunification and its impact on the situation of migrant women? Among the conclusions of this meeting with the associations, preventive officials and public authorities concerned, it is clear that more and more migrant women find themselves weakened because of the tightening of the rules of family reunification. Thus, a working group will be set up to propose a draft local plan of action to better combat discrimination against women. However, it is necessary to recall here that domestic or domestic violence can occur in various forms (physical, psychological, administrative, financial, sexual). It is not dependent on age, origin, culture or social affiliation. It mainly affects women, even if we previously talked about a very small minority of men who are subjected to violence. The tools to combat such violence apply to all women regardless of their origin or residence permit. Migrant women are no more victims of domestic violence than others, but they often face specific difficulties preventing them from benefiting from the protection measures provided for by law: isolation due to the absence of a family or social network in Belgium, administrative and sometimes financial or linguistic dependence on the spouse, fear of addressing the authorities in a context of suspicion against migrants. While Belgian legislation on the residence of aliens provides for a mechanism that allows these victims to request the maintenance of their right of residence in the event of separation from their partner, these provisions are often poorly known, not always properly applied and the obstacles to the implementation of these provisions remain numerous. Deficiencies in the protection and treatment of these situations are a real obstacle to the full empowerment of these women. For women in precarious or undocumented residence, fear and the risk of expulsion constitute a major obstacle to their protection. Therefore, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to ask you the following questions. Beyond your Government's stated commitment to enable the practical implementation of resolution 1325 and the implementation of the second national action plan "Women, Peace and Security", what concrete measures are being taken to ensure that migrant women who are victims of domestic violence can be effectively protected and are no longer victims of this "double violence"? Do the various actors involved in asylum procedures benefit from specific training and awareness-raising programmes to accompany these migrant women who are victims of violence? As part of your plan, it is obvious that training front-line actors is extremely important. Do you also intend to form the sector hosting immigration and asylum? Finally, what dialogue is in place between the various federal public services, federated entities and local authorities in order to provide specific solutions to this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u42	Madam President, Mr Kir, migrant women who are victims of domestic violence are indeed a particularly vulnerable group. The legislation has been amended to try to take account of this vulnerability and to include specific provisions such as the maintenance of their right of residence. Under Article 42quater, § 1.4 of the Aliens Act, the right of residence of members of the family of a citizen of the Union who is not himself a member of the Union must be terminated when the marriage is dissolved or annulled within five years or when there is no more common establishment. Many people are currently unaware of the exceptions that this provision allows in cases of domestic violence. In order to contain the disastrous situations, where these victims would still be advised to stay with the author for five years in order not to lose their right of residence, the provision in paragraph 4.4 was introduced. Under this provision, victims of domestic violence as well as violence such as rape, intentional assault and injury and poisoning may still retain their right of residence. The Institute for the Equality of Women and Men is currently working on an opinion on the protection of victims of domestic violence with temporary residence status. This is a notice to the police and help services. This opinion makes recommendations such as raising the awareness of police and services on these issues in general and on the exceptions that the legislation allows. We also note that this exceptional measure creates an administrative burden. This burden discourages victims from taking steps and encourages them to stay with their partner until the five years of marriage have passed. The Institute finds it unfair that victims of domestic violence feel forced to live in a context of violence. In its opinion, the Institute seeks to resolve this administrative burden by highlighting, for example, the role of the administrative police in these cases. For the moment, this opinion is currently being drafted and still needs to be examined by the various partners concerned. In practice, victims are reluctant to resort to law and justice in order to obtain the protection due to them in the same way as other victims of violence. Awareness and information therefore appear to be of paramount importance. In particular, a leaflet was prepared in various languages and widely disseminated by the Institute for Equality in order to inform foreign victims in particular of this phenomenon and of the possibilities of support and recourse. The Institute also supported the development by the CIRE of a brochure entitled Migrant and victim of domestic violence, what are my rights? It provides victims with information on their rights and the steps to be taken to protect themselves. This brochure is currently available only in French, but its translation into Dutch is under consideration. In recent weeks, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men has developed a draft of the new action plan to combat violence based on the 2015-2019 action plan. The mission was carried out in collaboration with the relevant federal, regional and community departments, including consultations with civil society. I would like to submit it to my relevant federal, regional and community colleagues in the near future and negotiate it at inter-cabinet meetings. Particular attention is planned to be paid to the interests and difficulties of all victims in vulnerable situations, including migrant women. However, it is currently premature to mention precisely the measures to be adopted by the various competent ministers and secretaries of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u43	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your detailed answers. I hear you make the Institute the instrument that will carry the plan with you, in consultation with the federated entities. You have not answered me for the communes, but I imagine they will be associated with your work. In another committee with one of your colleagues in charge of immigration, we made proposals on improving the status of migrant women. The difficulty of migrant women who are subjected to physical or psychological violence is that the exception to the conditions of family reunification requires them to demonstrate violence immediately. Immediately, it's impossible! A person who is a victim of violence cannot immediately go to the police or a doctor to have the documents completed. We proposed to amend the law by saying that time must be allowed to prepare the file. Throughout this period, it will also be necessary to give an identity document, if only provisional, to actually protect the person. The exception is an essential thing, which paves the way for the protection of those women who are subjected to violence, but they still need to be given the means to do so. Many of them do not dare, not just because the file is administratively difficult, but mainly because they are asked to produce the evidence immediately. I wanted to raise your awareness so that you could talk to your colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u44	Mr Miller did not come and his question No 2936 was considered withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u45	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, according to the latest report of the Brussels-Capital Observatory of Health and Social Affairs, poverty would affect women more. The term "feminization of poverty" or "female poverty" is used. Nearly a third of Brussels households are said to be at risk of falling into poverty one day. As we know, the poverty line is set at 1 003 euros per month for a single person, 1 605 euros for a single parent with two children and 2 106 euros for a couple with two children. It is important to keep these amounts in mind. It is, of course, women who are particularly affected by the phenomenon, as they represent the majority of single-parent and single-parent families. It seems to me that this is not the case in the other regions of the country. In its report, the Observatory identifies a number of causes leading to greater poverty among women: lower income levels than men, a greater presence in precarious jobs, in particular part-time jobs, a still uneven distribution of household tasks and training that do not always allow them to get a job because they are still victims of discrimination or job traps. These concerns are obviously cross-cutting and concern all levels of power. Madam Secretary of State, we know that at present 15% of Belgians live below the poverty line. Do you have precise figures on the number of women living below the poverty line, but also on the number of women at risk of poverty in our country? Could you tell us what concrete measures you are considering to combat this feminization of poverty? Is this issue or has it been taken into account in the development of new socio-economic measures by your government? Does it not seem essential to you to make your colleagues aware of this cross-cutting issue? Is collaboration with federated entities envisaged in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u46	Ms Winckel, at-risk-of-poverty figures for the entire population were 15.1% in 2013. In other words, 1.652 million people had incomes below 60% of median income. For the female population, this figure reached 15.5 per cent, which meant that 860,000 women were at risk of poverty. For the time being, the Third Federal Plan to Combat Poverty is in full preparation. As the coordinating Secretary of State for the fight against poverty, I will invite each competent minister to propose and implement sufficient targeted, specific and structural measures in his or her strategic area to implement and monitor the fight against poverty. This third federal plan of action will be based on a broad vision of poverty. Indeed, it is not only a lack of money, but above all a multidimensional problem that requires initiatives in different policy areas and at all political levels. This requires an inclusive and preventive policy in favour of autonomy, a policy that ensures that fundamental social rights are guaranteed because it is preferable to prevent poverty. The gender mainstreaming dimension has not been lost in the anti-poverty policy. We can cite several initiatives in this regard. The 2015-2016 PPS Diversity Plan for Social Integration, approved at the end of January, contains several gender-related actions and a clear commitment is made to support the mechanism that coordinates gender mainstreaming focal points within the federal government. One of these actions is clearly part of gender mainstreaming by aiming for a better quantitative understanding of the reality of women and men in social integration. This is Action 19 which aims to achieve a statistical focus with gender as a theme in social integration. The statistical focus is a regular publication of the SPP Social Integration whose aim is to document in more depth a chosen theme. The information from this focus is then taken up to guide the political action and the publication is freely accessible on the website of the Social Integration PPS. In the course of 2014, we introduced a project targeting single-parent women in CPAS, as part of the EaSI 2014 call for projects, an EU programme for employment and social innovation. This programme aims to stimulate innovation in social services. The aim of the introduced project was to support the target group towards greater social participation through the organisation of social inclusion activities. We expect a response to this issue in March or April 2015. The PPS Social Integration is one of the federal governments that systematically implements gender budgeting in the development of its budget. We also carry out the test-genre as part of the regulatory impact assessment on an assiduous basis. In addition to poverty among immigrants and child poverty, poverty after separation or divorce will become a specific focus in the new federal plan. I look forward to working with the Minister of Justice, building on the development of an objective reorientation, to define the amount of food contributions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic123x.u47	This issue is really important. 860,000 women are said to be vulnerable; poverty is feminizing. We have also discussed this at length at the United Nations Congress. I haven't heard you talk about wage inequality, while there's still 25% of the wage gap between men and women. We have to work on this issue too. We had discussed this with the emancipation committee and discussed the possibility of evaluating the legislation passed under the previous legislature. This could be interesting, in order to determine what further steps could be taken to reduce this percentage to achieve balance and equality. As you mentioned, when it comes to feminizing poverty, it is also about child poverty. We've got to take this by arm-to-body. It is clearly a gender inequality. I really invite you to take this by arm-to-body, because it revolts me at the highest point. I have already asked your colleague about the issue of the Maintenance Claims Service (Secal). The Secal must be given the means to enable women in difficulty to receive maintenance payments that men do not pay. I have never had a very clear or very optimistic answer to this question. That really worries me; it is a very important element. I would urge you to contact your colleague again on this subject, and to work with the federated entities. It is essential to work together on this issue. I will certainly still have the opportunity to come back to this subject, which I am deeply concerned about.
