ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u1	Minister, this question concerns an issue on which I have already questioned you twice. I would like to look at the state of play here. Recently, seven people working at the Dutch-speaking Registry were transferred from the Dutch-speaking Registry to the French-speaking Registry by order. There is a discussion going on about the legality or not of that intervention, which has major consequences for the Dutch-speaking legal practitioners, the Dutch-speaking Registry and the lawyers. Minister, have you already received the advice requested?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u2	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, I received an answer to my question for advice from the Attorney General at the Brussels Appeals Court. He does not consider that he has jurisdiction under Article 399 of the Court of First Instance, since he did not consider that the legislator's intention of 1 December 2013 was to subject the new jurisdiction of the first President of the Court of Appeal under Article 328 (4) of the Court of First Instance to an appeal or to the supervisory role of the Attorney General. Nevertheless, on the basis of all the information provided, I come to the following findings. Article 328, fourth paragraph, of the Code, as replaced by the Law of 1 December 2013 reforming the arrondissements of justice and amending the Code of the Court with a view to increasing the mobility of members of the judicial order, now reads as follows. Where justified by the needs of the service, the first chairman may, on the advice of the principal Registrar and, where appropriate, of the chairman, subject to the law of 15 June 1935 on the use of languages in court proceedings, order: 1° a level A or B staff member, without his permission, to perform his duties in another Registry of the jurisdiction for a period not exceeding one year. The contract may be renewed in the event of the consent of the person concerned; 2° a level A or B staff member, without his permission, to perform his duties in another registry of the district for a renewable period of not more than one year; 3° a staff member of level C or D, without his permission, to perform his duties in another Registry of the Section or in another Registry of the Brussels, Walloon Brabant or Leuven district for a renewable period of not more than one year." The aim of the amendment of the law was indisputable to transfer the former power of delegation of prosecutors to the first Presidents of the courts of appeal in the light of the new judicial landscape. The clarification on the use of languages in court cases, in compliance with the Law of 15 June 1935, was incorporated in Article 328 (4) of the Code of Justice by the Law of 1 December 2013. A similar clarification can also be found, inter alia, in Article 98 of the Code of the Court of Justice on the delegation of judges and in Article 100 on the subsidiary appointment of judges. The absence of such a clarification in the earlier version of Article 328 of the Civil Code was evidently the reason why the legislator inserted Article 64 in the Law of 19 July 2012 on the reform of the judicial district of Brussels. The legislator's starting point when adopting Article 64 of the Law of 19 July 2012 on the reform of the judicial district of Brussels was a strict linguistic separation. Delegations from a Dutch-speaking court to a French-speaking court were therefore only allowed under strict conditions and limited to transfers. The ratio legis was simple: the entry into force of the Brussels-Halle-Vilvoordewet was at the time linked to the achievement of 90% of the content of all the frameworks. With the possibility of delegation from one court to another, the legislator wanted to build in a mechanism to make use of transfers from the Dutch-speaking court in the French-speaking court and thus speed up the entry into force of the law. It is therefore a lex specialis to which the principle of lex specialis derogat legi generali applies. At present there are no more transfers, which means that that provision has been repealed. Although the ratio legis of that provision was to speed up the entry into force of the law and thus is now obsolete, the starting point was in any case a linguistic separation, which could be provided for in a temporary exception. The new version of Article 328, fourth paragraph, of the Civil Code, introduced by Law of 1 December 2013, included the desire for strict linguistic separation under the provisions of the Civil Code. However, the clarification of the use of languages in court cases, in compliance with the law of 15 June 1935, does not explicitly prohibit the delegation of bilingual clerks to a court in another language. Only the law of 15 June 1935 is asked to be taken into account. That law of 15 June 1935, although it is now very clear as regards the strict language conditions for the appointment of magistrates, in Article 43, but not as regards the appointment of Registrars or their delegation, in Article 53. The first President's argument that in the present case there are only delegations and not appointments, and that his intervention escapes the scope of the language law, is therefore not invalidated by the literal reading of Article 328 (4) of the Code of Justice and Article 53 of the Law of 15 June 1935. In view of the separation of powers, I am not allowed to intervene in the organization or functioning of courts and courts. After all, Parliament entrusted external control to the Supreme Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u3	Minister, I have tried to listen to your reply very carefully. I think I can understand that you think the situation is what it is and that it doesn't change anything. The Supreme Court of Justice is indeed responsible for external control. Perhaps the matter should be referred to the Supreme Court of Justice, which will then be able to verify whether or not the intervention is legal. Thank you for your answer. I am very sorry, because the consequences are great, both for the lawyers, who sometimes stand in front of a closed registry door in the afternoon, and for those seeking justice. That's very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u4	Question No 4454 by Mrs Jadin is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u5	As you know, according to section 203 of the Civil Code, fathers and mothers are obliged, according to their means, to take care of the accommodation, maintenance, education and training of their children. In the event of separation or in the absence of an amicable agreement, the judge may require one of the parents to pay a contribution to support the child. In some cases, the ex-spouse or legal cohabitant may also receive alimony, decided by the judge or before a notary. If the maintenance debtor fails to fulfil his obligation, the creditor may appeal to SECAL, the Maintenance Claims Service, which acts as an intermediary between the former spouses. SECAL is also required to make advances to enable the parent and child to live. In this regard, on May 12, 2014, the legislator made significant changes to the collection as of January 1, 2015. One of them gives the judge the opportunity to decide whether to withdraw the driver's licence from the person who abandons his family. This measure, inspired by the angle-saxon model, is likely to be dissuasive. However, such a measure is likely to lead to differential treatment since not all debtors obviously have a driving licence. Moreover, such withdrawal is likely to interfere with the debtor in his professional activity or search for employment, which would be contrary to the intended purpose. Can you tell us if licence withdrawals have already been applied? How does the measure apply in concreteo? If it has already been implemented, do you believe that this measure fulfils its objective?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u6	Mrs Wilmès, the Maintenance Claims Service was created by the FPS Finance to find a solution to the failure of child support debtors and former partners who were fixed in court decisions and notarial acts. The execution of such securities must be guaranteed in order to prevent those entitled to such maintenance from falling into poverty. The Act of 12 May 2014, the ministerial decree of 30 May 2014 was mainly aimed at relaxing the conditions for food creditors to obtain advances from SECAL. To this end, the eligibility revenue cap has been lowered. In addition, the possibilities for the recovery of SECAL have been extended. The defaulting maintenance debtor may be prosecuted for non-payment of maintenance. Article 391bis of the Criminal Code has long been a crime of family abandonment. As an accessory penalty and with the aim of causing the debtor to pay, the latest legislative amendments to the SECAL also provided that the judge may order the withdrawal of the driver's licence from the maintenance debtor. Since the above-mentioned Act came into force only on 1 August, this regulation is too recent to be able to draw up statistics and assess the effectiveness of this measure. There is no doubt that this measure, the decision of which is entirely left to the judge's discretion, constitutes an additional means of forcing a defaulting maintenance debtor who persists in not paying his dues. Referring to the travaux préparatoires of the Act of 12 May 2014, the practice shows that the above-mentioned criminal sanction only has a very limited deterrent effect in attempting to induce the maintenance debtor to fulfil his obligations. Sentences of imprisonment for such an offence, if actually imposed, are rarely carried out in practice. That is why the legislator has opted to add an alternative sanction to the range of penalties available to the judge to force the maintenance debtor to comply spontaneously with his obligations in the future. By applying section 12 of the Act of 12 May 2014, the judge may therefore also order the revocation of the right to drive a motor vehicle. The enforcement of this measure would, according to the legislator, constitute an additional means of pressure that is already applied in practice in other countries, such as the United States. It is only natural that parents should be primarily responsible for the maintenance of their children.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u7	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that the preparatory work is a secondary measure which has recently been taken because of its applicability in the field. It has therefore not yet been implemented. In addition, it will be up to the judge to decide on the appropriateness of this measure. I will allow myself to come back later to take stock with you on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u8	Minister, the reintegration of ex-prisoners is an important issue in our society. Everyone recognizes this, at a time when many observers agree that our prisons promote social drop-out and sometimes even radicalism. In the face of this, culture and education remain the best tools in our society. At present, it is indeed permissible for prisoners to take training: literacy courses, language courses or official curricula, and that is an excellent thing. On the other hand, pursuing higher education is a little more complicated. First, courses are given by correspondence, without the possibility of exchange with a teacher or other students, which remains a determining factor for learning. Secondly, the conditions of detention are generally not conducive to study, between cell sharing and the difficulty of obtaining adequate material. There are interesting initiatives emanating from ASBL that offer support to prisoners through the presence of teachers at the prison parlor. They also act as an intermediary between the student and the academic community, which, by definition, ignores the conditions under which inmates study. I am thinking, for example, of the lack of access to the Internet, of the lack of computer equipment, of supplies or of specific works. These are factors that hinder inmate learning and are not taken into account by universities. Minister, can you provide us with the number of inmates currently attending graduate studies in prison? If this number remains marginal, do you not find it appropriate to encourage inmates who have reached this level to embark on studies if they have not yet done so? How could student support initiatives be encouraged?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u9	Mr President, Mrs Wilmès, teaching is a matter for the Communities. This principle also applies to prison education, including university education. The role of the prison is to facilitate access to studies, taking into account the order, security and organization of the prison. If under the conditions, the inmate who is studying could, for example, be granted leave to take examinations or the teacher could see the inmate in detention to pass the examination. It goes without saying that the deprivation of liberty, by its very nature, does not allow us to study as a person at liberty could do. However, I pay great attention to the fact that detainees have access to any education, and the administration is, I repeat, attentive to this. But in our institutional world, every actor must take responsibility and assume his or her own skills. I have no figures on this because, as I said, this is not a federal jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u10	Minister, thank you. I understand that you are not able to give me the figures, but we know that, obviously, they are not very high. For the rest, I note that you attach great importance to the possibility of studying in prison and I imagine that, within the framework of your skills, you will be able to take the necessary steps to facilitate this access to prisoners, a positive step in the rehabilitation process.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u11	Mr President, Minister, the staff of the Mons courthouse responsible for the preservation of exhibits have repeatedly expressed the lack of security of the premises. While these premises have been intruded and some exhibits have been stolen in the recent past, staff are now deeply concerned about the lack of resources at their disposal to monitor the building. On the other hand, it would appear that gas cylinders would be stored next to explosives, resulting, if confirmed, in a major health and safety risk for on-site workers. What exactly is the situation, minister? Do you confirm the presence of explosives alongside gas cylinders and the danger this poses to the agents working there? Could you give a statement of the situation of the Mons courthouse with regard to the management related to the preservation of exhibits? Do you intend to discuss the issue of compliance with the law on health and safety of the premises with the Prosecutor of the King of Mons? Finally, it seems undeniable that the lack of security of the premises where the exhibits are kept is linked to the dilapidation of the courthouse. While you recently announced, Minister, a master plan for the justice buildings, could you assure me that resources will be allocated for the Mons courthouse?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u12	Mr Thiébaut, the Justice Plan indicates that a Master Plan should be ready by the end of the year. This exercise is not an easy task and must take into account many factors and actors. We are now working on this task. As a result of the incidents you mentioned concerning the security of the premises in Mons, new physical measures have been taken in order to ensure the best security of the premises and to avoid other incidents of the same type. To my knowledge, there would be no more explosives in the exhibits in Mons and if by the greatest of chance there were to be any more explosives, I would invite the services concerned to store them not at the palace itself, but within the building on Rue de Nimy, which also houses a large part of the exhibits. There is therefore a very good way to separate the explosives from the gas cylinders in two separate places. On the question of the state of the building, my services are currently carrying out a survey of the premises of the building, which will actually be useful in the framework of the master plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u13	Thank you, Minister. I will not fail to visit and to exercise my parliamentary rights to visit this courthouse and actually realize on the ground whether the measures have been taken in accordance with your explanations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u14	Mr Gilkinet's question was withdrawn as he was absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u15	Minister, unfortunately, escapes are increasing in Namur's courthouse. On 19 May 2015, a young man who was supposed to answer for theft with break-in and violence before the investigating judge managed to escape from the courthouse. This escape is the second in three weeks and the prosecutor of the king of Namur can no longer deal with this situation. Indeed, this palace is a real windmill. This problem is not inherent in police surveillance, since police officers are present, but rather in the configuration of the premises. Those who have already been with them have been able to see this. We know that the project of the future palace is on its way and that the new buildings will be built in the Barracks district of Namur. But given the delays, the Namibian justice system would like things to be handled and a little more proactivity. It simply wants to have the means to function properly. Minister, the King's attorney has told the press of his will to question you so that the project of the new courthouse can proceed as quickly as possible. In the meantime, he would like to see a minimum budget allocated to Namur so that the current building meets basic safety standards. It seems to me that this is the least that can be done to ensure the safety of judicial personnel, police officers and citizens. So, Mr. Minister, did the prosecutor of the King of Namur question you about this? What about the project of Namur's new courthouse? Will the work start well in August 2015 as planned? Have you ever taken the lead so that the current courthouse can be restored to standards before the new palace comes out of the ground? It would be unfortunate if a third escape took place. It would be appropriate to avoid seeing the expression "never two without three" come true!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u16	Mr President, Minister, I was recently asking you about the construction of a new courthouse in Tournai. Despite your predecessors' commitments to the construction of this new courthouse, I was not fully reassured by your response. It appears that plans for the renovation of the current courthouse exist and require a more limited budget than for the construction of a new courthouse. The important thing for me in this case is to allow the judicial staff to work in good conditions, and to ensure that the litigants are brought to justice under the same good conditions. At a time when budgets are being streamlined, is this not the middle path? What do you think? Is this a possibility that the current government is considering? Could we hope that the work will begin within a reasonable time?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u17	Minister, after Namur, Tournai and Liège, my question will not be very original, since I believe that everything has been said on the subject. You know the statements of the prosecutor of the King of Namur, Mr. Macq. Pending a possible construction project, what measures have you been considering with the authorities of Namibia to resolve this problem, which I hope will not become recurring? Are the minimum standards of security provided for in the courthouses actually applied or in the process of being applied at the courthouse in Namur? Will a budget be made available for emergency measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked for these questions to be dealt with together because they concern the courts in general. I would like to say that an exercise will be carried out with regard to judicial buildings. In this regard, I am also referring to my Justice Plan, where I explain that the significant number of Justice buildings must be subject to a thorough rationalization exercise which should ultimately lead to a significant reduction in the number of courtrooms and a more centralized management of the buildings. An important chapter of this management plan will also address security. This master plan should be available by the end of the year. This exercise is not an easy task. Many factors and actors must be taken into account. We will now proceed and you will understand that it is still too early to answer detailed questions. The projects of Tournai and Namur will be treated among others. As far as Tournai is concerned, I can add this: as I said, it will only be after the master plan has been drawn up that more details can be specified. At this stage, there is no comprehensive concrete renovation plan for the current courthouse. This was linked to the previous phase, which involved the rental of the new building located on Rue du Château, intended for the commercial court, the youth court and the civil section of the court of first instance. As a result of a trial at first instance by a few residents, the move was interrupted. Only the commercial and youth courts were able to occupy their new premises. In the meantime, a new judgement on appeal was issued, in favour of the occupation, but the Justice cannot continue the move due to a dispute between the Régie des Bâtiments and the owners. For more details, I refer you to my colleague responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments. Only after the Civil Section has left the former palace will there be sufficient buffer space for possible renovation in several phases. As far as questions about Namur's courthouse are concerned, I can still add that I still have not received the letter from the prosecutor, but I will certainly inquire about it. The FPS Justice Security Project Leader will be on site to assess the situation and make proposals for improvements. In this regard, additional window locks and improved access controls at the entrance and exit of the training area are considered. As a general rule, the security standards for courthouses are described in the General Guidelines and Specific Characteristics of a Security Plan for Courthouses issued by the FPS Justice. This document describes the topology of the courthouse and its security systems. It is thus the guideline for the designer – architect or design office – as part of a new construction or renovation project. Given the concrete plans of the new building project in Namur, the measures and facilities described in the document are of course only partially present in the current buildings, due to budgetary constraints, but even more so for technical reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u19	Mr President, I see that we have the same concerns, even if we are not from the same region. Minister, I can hear you talking about the master plan by the end of 2015. It is true that rationalization efforts require a minimum of study but it is urgent that the proposals for improvement be formulated by the SPF Justice for the Palace of Namur. The administration should focus on this situation. This palace is very old. There are few places to secure. There were two escapes. If there were to be a third one, I don't think we'll answer anything anymore! These are no longer questions that you may have, but real questions. We should try to avoid them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answer, but not necessarily for the content of it. Last time, you hadn't convinced me. I would just ask you to put yourself in my shoes sometimes. I've got another hat, the burgundy hat, which functions as the city of Tournai. I saw a whole series of ministers coming in there who were rushing to be in the photo that indicated that in a short time we were going to inaugurate the future new courthouse. I know very well that you must not take all the nonsense and promises formulated by others but very honestly, Tournai feels particularly neglected. We've already lost the Railway Police, who moved to Mons. I really feel like Justice has a hidden agenda for Tournai. You mentioned a whole series of lawsuits between the owner, the Justice, the Régie des Bâtiments. We have the impression that on Rue du Château, when the lease is over, all this beautiful people will leave Tournai to go to Mons. As the mayor of the city of Tournai, I cannot accept it! From both a social and a heritage point of view. I cannot accept that the courthouse in the centre of Tournai is not renovated. You have advised me to question the minister who has the Régie des Bâtiments in his powers, so I will take my pilgrim's staff to contact him. With a French minister who is, I believe, very close to the world of justice, I cannot accept that one day or the other, Tournai is in the trap.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u21	Minister, for my part, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u22	Mr President, Minister, we are concerned about the problems of the interns. I am also aware that for some time there has been an enlightenment in relation to the problems of the thousand interns who live in prisons in our country. Since November 2014, for the first time, the first internees have been in the forensic psychiatric center in Ghent. Today there is no full occupation but at cruising speed there should be room for 264 interned. A number of questions I had asked have now been answered in the facts, but still a number of questions remain unanswered, including the state of the art of the project in Antwerp. To the questions I had raised, Minister, including the question of how many interns are currently staying in the FPC Ghent, I have now been able to hear the answer myself. There's about a hundred of them. What were the childhood diseases at the start-up? I think that we have already been given a full explanation of this as a result of a visit. I do not think that the operation raises any significant problems. There are a number of other questions I had asked that have not yet been answered. By when can we expect a full occupancy of the FPC in Ghent? As a result of an on-the-spot visit, we also found that too much administrative space is actually available on the spot. Provided that a number of adjustments are made, the question arises as to whether a section for long stay-interneers could be set up there. A problem that has also been raised in connection with the visit to the prison in Bruges, where it has been made clear to us that, as far as the interned women are concerned, no departments are actually foreseen today. Quid with that administrative space, could it be arranged for that purpose, so long stay or for women? This is actually lost space today. Do you think this is feasible? What about the FPC in Antwerp? Has there been a draft for the operation yet? What's the status there? When do you expect the FPC in Antwerp to receive the first interned?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u23	On 20 May 2015, 140 interned in the FPC of Ghent. It is expected that a full occupation will be achieved by the end of September this year, as contracted. The start-up of the FPC took place without any significant problems. The classic small problems at the start of a new working relationship between operator, client and contractor naturally occurred, but nothing special. The recording of interned persons was stopped for a short period of time due to technical interventions such as the expansion of the internal wireless telephony system and the adaptation of the telephone exchange. Afterwards, this delay was largely eliminated. The FPC is a unique setting that is neither a hospital nor a prison, but a center sui generis. The FPC means a new way of working, both in terms of construction and in terms of the operation of the centre. As with any start-up of a new facility, there is inevitably a phase of trial and error. No serious problems were reported. The lessons learned at this stage are certainly important for future projects and contribute to reducing the risk margin of what may be wrong in future projects. The use of administrative spaces in the FPC of Ghent for the creation of additional places for interned persons is not evident. The building as a whole and the individual units and premises have been described and realized from a certain concept. The entire equipment of the building is tailored to that concept. There is no guarantee that care and monitoring and/or security can be optimal due to the location of these premises. Apart from the inevitable cost picture that may soon be high in these cases, the fact that the building and related permits were obtained on the basis of the concept and the plans as submitted is relevant. The current capacity is also contractually committed. I must honestly say that I am not in favour of organising a long stay in the FPC, because this is contrary to the philosophy of an FPC, which consists in allowing as many interned as possible to flow into regular reception facilities, both residential and out-of-patient. The organization of a long stay department is a bit against that. I'm working on alternative slopes, in consultation with my colleague, Mrs. De Block. At present, the specifications for the FPC of Antwerp are being finalised. The administrative procedure for publication, selection and award will be launched shortly. The preliminary delivery of the FPC Antwerp is scheduled for mid-2016. It is expected that the first internees will be included in autumn 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u24	I only have one point of reply. As far as lost space is concerned, I am fully aware that it is not possible to redesign without an additional licence. I am also fully aware that additional resources are needed if we are to create more places. However, I would ask you to take the following with you: today it is a space that exists, in the immediate vicinity of a full care team. If we look at the places where interned people are staying today, and if we think about the lack of places for women and so on, then perhaps you can think about using that lost space usefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u25	Mr President, Minister, the steps taken in the aftermath of the terrorist threat included the installation of security gates and identity checks at the entrance to the courthouse. These measures had been the subject of controversy as they hindered the proper functioning of the justice system. Indeed, lawyers and magistrates were forced to follow the endless lines induced by the passage to the porticos and the identity checks of all persons entering the immense courthouse. The press informs us that last week, during which a large-scale terrorism trial began, following a shortage of staff, a choice had to be made between the monitoring of hearings and the control of persons entering the palace. This is paradoxical given that the danger is potentially greater than in other trials or, in any case, in normal times. We also learned that the prosecution and the youth court had to close their doors on Friday morning following the decision of the president of the correctional court to requisition security personnel for the reception of these bodies, in the context of an inmate appearance. Minister, in high-risk trials, including terrorism-related trials, is it not appropriate to provide for appropriate security measures? Is it possible to increase the number of staff dedicated to the security of the courthouse in such trials? What do you intend to put in place so that, at the same time, access to the place of work for judges and lawyers is not hindered, and that justice is not unduly slowed down by this security? What control of entry is currently provided for in adjacent courts? What method do you plan to put in place to secure the premises while not overly disturbing the flow of entrances into these ancillary buildings?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u26	Minister, again this morning the press reported real problems of incomprehension between the Security Corps and the police. The former complain about the lack of support from the Brussels-Ixelles area and denounce "the irresponsible behaviour of officials unable to make an effort when a somewhat complicated or hot situation arises". As we can see, the tensions between these two bodies are strong. In response to an oral question of 21 January, you indicated that a consultation between the actors involved would be set up on security within the Brussels courthouse. I would like to take stock of this consultation. Which actors are involved? Where are we? What were the real problems highlighted? What solutions have been proposed? Has a structural solution been considered? Is a distribution of missions between the Security Corps and the police being considered for a change in this distribution? This morning, I heard you called on an outside company to fill the current gaps. What about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u27	Colleagues, I have asked that these issues be dealt with together. All relate to the sensitive debate about the security of Poelaert campus. The Brussels courthouse has been placed at level 3 (serious) since 16 January and is subject to permanent protection measures by the Brussels police, supported by the army in carrying out this mission. This armed guard of public access to the courthouse complements the security measures usually taken with regard to at-risk hearings within the framework of the court and court police. Thus, the trials to which you refer are subject to special measures within the courthouse. Where local police capacity is insufficient, support from the federal police and support from other police areas may be sought. In terms of infrastructure, the majority of justice buildings have technical characteristics that do not always facilitate the implementation of optimal physical security measures. In view of these, organisational measures have nevertheless been taken, notably by reducing the number of access to the building, as is the case at the Brussels courthouse. Since October 2014, the Brussels police risk analysis has concluded that the users of the courthouse need to be thoroughly checked by means of metal detection and X-ray check of their luggage. However, a separate professional entrance has been arranged for judicial staff and lawyers from other professional groups. The Brussels police have entrusted this task to the Security Corps officers who are at its disposal in order to support it in its task of bringing the detainees before the courts and tribunals. This represented an additional burden that transformed day-to-day management into a difficult task, especially given the problem of already known personnel. The Security Corps is carrying out a difficult but necessary mission. As I said earlier, 20 additional staff will indeed be assigned to the Security Corps this year. Recruitment procedures shall be initiated. In the first instance, the P&D staff will examine whether there are still persons in the recruitment reserves who can be recruited in the short term. In order to be able to be used for all tasks, it is necessary to have different training courses. The basic training takes 46 days, with 10 days of internship in which the agents do not have 100 %, as they work together with experienced colleagues. The Security Corps currently has 419 members, representing 409.75 full-time equivalents. There are currently 11 long-term ills. Other problems have reappeared more recently due to the increased workload. Indeed, due to the higher number of hearings and trials, as well as a large trial for terrorism, the Security Corps and the police were heavily involved. I regret that, at a time when the Poelaert courthouse is recording a peak of ordinary trials, assizes and terrorism, this building was rendered, for security reasons, inaccessible to the public and to those who had been summoned for trial. However, I can understand that in these unusual and difficult circumstances - the level of security of 3 - it is not easy to ensure continuity, whereas after absences due to illness, full occupation cannot be guaranteed. That is why yesterday there was a problem with access to the Palace. That should have been resolved, even though I realise that we need to solve the deficit step by step. In order to ensure continuity of the operation of justice and to deal with the exceptional situation temporarily, the Security Corps will be supported by qualified personnel from a surveillance firm for a limited period of time until the start of judicial leave. Those employees will man the scanner under the guidance of the Security Corps. In order to reach a structural solution, there is continuous consultation with all the actors involved. The actors involved are, of course, the Security Corps, the police and the relevant judicial services and their chiefs of police. I am also in favour of a different approach to security policy. As I said, that is part of the master plan, but I fully agree with a command line in principle. Where that must be, it is part of negotiations. Finally, I would also like to point out that I am currently developing a master plan of justice buildings, which takes into account these security dimensions. In this context, as in the case of the reform of the judicial districts, among the questions asked, I note the possible reduction in the number of settlements in order to ensure that individuals and magistrates benefit from a level of security compatible with current and future threats.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u28	Minister, thank you. The information you provide us with is intended to be reassuring in the context of a justice system that is severely restrained in its missions. However, you understand that the paradox arouses fears: a strengthening of security following the terrorist threat and an impossibility of ensuring security in a trial for terrorist-related facts. I'm looking for the mistake! All the more so since the fight against terrorism is one of the priorities of this Government, and we can imagine an increase in such terrorism-related trials. On the issue of the lack of security personnel, it is an obstruction to the proper functioning of justice that is highlighted. The press again reported this morning that the commissioner in charge of security at the courthouse had, of authority, closed access to the palace due to a lack of staff needed to scan the litigants. However, the President of the Court of Cassation has pointed out that the publicity of debates and judgments is a guarantee in our Constitution and that, if we continue to do so, justice will have difficulty in carrying out its tasks and may be condemned by the European Court of Human Rights. I therefore believe that every effort must be made within a reasonable time to ensure that Belgium is not again condemned by the European Court of Human Rights for violating the right to a fair trial.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u29	Minister, first of all, I would like to point out that you have called on an outside body to fill the current difficulties. Secondly, I note that your reflection includes the possible reduction of certain court buildings, which will, we hope, ensure better security where possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u30	Mr Minister, since the end of 2014, there has been the Forensic Psychiatric Centre in Ghent, run by Sodexo, among others. Apparently, the staff currently employed would not have a clear legal status or framework. The centre would not be covered by the legislation of psychiatric hospitals, nor by the legal framework of prisons. For example, it is unclear which treatments the employees may apply and what actions they may take. This is, for example, a legal framework for nursing treatment, but also how far staff can be involved in monitoring tasks. Minister, what legal framework does the staff of the FPC Ghent fall under? What's the progress on the layout of this? When do you expect that to be ready? What does the current situation mean for the staff currently employed? A domestic regulation would have been adopted at the moment. Can you confirm that? If so, what legal protection does it provide if something actually happens? Do you still want to legally anchor the domestic regulations? Are you planning other transitional measures pending a clear legal framework? Are there certain tasks which, in the absence of a legal framework, cannot yet be carried out by the current staff? Does this involve certain risks for the staff? If so, how is this handled?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u31	The Forensic Psychiatric Centre has a separate statute and is therefore not a classic hospital and not a classic prison. A clear distinction must be made between care and safety personnel. I assume your questions relate to the care staff. This falls under the joint committee 330, but is the responsibility of the FPS Public Health. The deployment and funding of Justice in the FPC focuses on security, logistics and administrative processes. As such, the Justice Department does not intervene in everything that cares. That's a responsibility of the FPS Health Department. This applies to the standards of care, treatment pathways and so on. For more details, I must refer you to Mrs. De Block. I can tell you the following for information. The FPC Gent has a domestic regulation describing daily life and the rules within the establishment. The drafting of the rules is the responsibility of the operator. The government's just checking to see if that's in line with her demands. The internal rules describe a number of issues. A number of things are not possible, such as DNA research and research in the body. Other things can and will be provided for in order to maintain the therapeutic quality of life in the centre, by analogy with what is happening in psychiatric hospitals, such as the examination of the body, urinalysis, forced medicine, the use of mechanical means and so on. This is sufficient to ensure the functioning of the FPC.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I asked my question because we have received the signal from a number of employees that it is not always clear to workers in the workplace what can or cannot be done. The uncertainty is alive. I believe that it is important to clarify quickly or to communicate quickly what is to be expected. It is said that there is a legal framework on top of the domestic regulations. I believe that your answer does not completely remove the existing concerns, but I will take further action and also question the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u33	Mr President, Minister, the new prison in Leuze was opened last August. This new detention centre allowed for a little lightening, in terms of prisoners, of the other prisons in the kingdom that are overcrowded. Unfortunately, I note that today the situation raises questions. At the end of March, I read in the press that the Leuz prison was only half full! It hosted 150 prisoners out of 312 available places. I think the different directions of the country's prisons have fallen from the nudes hearing that. According to my information, it is now a matter of welcoming, at last, new detainees in Leuze. 75 new arrivals are expected to invest the place in the near future. Not that I am glad that new prisoners are coming, but I think it will be good for some prisons that are already experiencing problems of overcrowding. The arrival of new detainees obviously requires additional staff. It will surely not have escaped you that with the freezing of the recruitment of new agents initiated by your government, the prison in Leuze has no choice but to accommodate prison officers who have been transferred from other prisons. I can take a concrete example. Tournai had to separate from two full-time equivalents that were transferred to Leuze. The prison in Tournai was already understaffed. With this transfer, the latter is even more in difficulty. Minister, building a prison is one thing, hiring staff to manage it properly is another. With your austerity measures, it is the other prisons that have to relax when they are already experiencing difficulties in terms of staff. Minister, my questions are as follows. You have obtained additional budgets as part of the budgetary adjustment, will these funds allow for the hiring of additional staff? How many people are they talking about? What additional staff are you planning for the prisons in Leuze and Tournai?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u34	Mr Delannois, indeed, the filling of the third wing in Leuze is continuing. By June 3, the population will be 225. The fourth wing is expected to complete in the fourth quarter of 2015 to reach 300. These transfers obviously require staff transfers that will have to be crossed because the majority of applicants to Leuze are from Saint-Gilles. In the past few months, I have set up a working group within the Justice Sector III Committee "rationalisation and modernisation of working methods" in which the administration and the unions jointly discuss how to streamline the work stations and modernise the methods. By implementing this rationalization, the 10 per cent savings on staff costs requested by each department in the government agreement should be achievable. This means that the Leuze framework will also be subject to the same exercise. I am not yet in a position to give you the figures for the final framework for Leuze because the work of the working group is still under way. With fiscal adjustment, we do not have to make redundancies, but they are not possible to recruit to strengthen managers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u35	Minister, I will not say that you reassure me. In the long run, I may no longer have a courthouse and now you're saying that you're going to avoid layoffs in different prisons. You know that's not enough for me. Since there is already a lot of social grunt in Tournai, if, now, in addition, they are told that to please them they will avoid dismissals but that they do not hear the word "recruitment", I think that in the weeks and months to come, problems may arise. I hope that in the future, you will take the problem with your arms.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u36	Mr President, Minister, in recent weeks the press has repeatedly relayed the position of the investigating judges in Brussels with regard to the enlargement of the "mini-investigation" that you are advocating through your Justice Plan. Positioning seems to be unanimousally negative. You are analysing this enlargement in terms of efficiency, considering that a public prosecutor who could decide on the conduct of a search, the setting up of a direct visual check or the opportunity to listen to telephones, without the investigating judge having to be seized of the case, would save time. The investigating judges do not see this with such a good eye and, moreover, some have drafted and presented a note in which they explain their fears about the potential drifts of the expansion of the mini-inquiries and the loss of time that the new system would entail. My group's concerns are also important. I will stop on five points. First, the expansion of mini-intelligence refers to acts that violate fundamental rights, such as respect for privacy. This interference would require the approval of the investigating judge and cannot be limited to mere formality. Secondly, more power is given to the Public Prosecutor's Office, which informs the prosecution. There is, therefore, confusion of genders between him and the investigating judge. Indeed, the latter is not, on the contrary, a party to the trial. The defence could be aggrieved if any of its requests had to be addressed to the public prosecutor who had become "all-powerful". Thirdly, more power is given to the Public Prosecutor's Office, which cannot rely on the independence of judges, since it is under the authority of the Minister of Justice. Fourthly, the function/concept of an investigating judge is gradually being abandoned, and its role could be limited to endorsing requests made by the Public Prosecutor's Office. Fifthly, the outline of a criminal justice system in which there is an objection, without a complete overhaul of the criminal procedure being envisaged at the same time. Minister, have you met with these investigating judges to hear their arguments? Does this mini-investigation show the beginnings of a reform of the inquisitorial foundations of our criminal procedure? If so, will the procedure be reformed to meet the requirements of an adversarial system guaranteeing the rights of all parties? Are lawyers ready for such a change? How can the weakest party be assured of the effective and fair handling of their case? Is it not to anticipate the work of the working group on the reform of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Investigation that you intend to set up in the future? As long as these reforms are not in place, how do you justify such measures potentially infringing fundamental rights being entrusted to a Public Prosecutor's Office with marginal control over investigating judges? If the review of investigating judges is not a margin check, what time savings do you expect to achieve? Is the extension of the powers of the Public Prosecutor's Office not likely to increase the workload of the Public Prosecutor's Office, whereas the Prosecutor's Office must already close cases without further action because it is unable to deal with them within a reasonable period of time? Is it not legitimate to fear interference by the executive in certain judicial cases and, therefore, to question the independence of the judiciary?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u37	Mr President, Mrs Özen, I have announced in my Justice Plan the intention of proposing an expansion of mini-education in the context of the second pot-pourri bill which will soon be presented to you. The debate will take place in Parliament during the discussion of this draft. The mini-instruction was introduced by the Franchimont law. It allows the prosecutor to apply to the investigating judge for investigative actions, such as an autopsy or a warrant, without such an application automatically implying that the judge must conduct all investigations and can only be dismissed by an investigating court. It often happens that the intervention of this judge does not bring any real added value beyond the decision on these specific acts. It cannot be said that the Public Prosecutor's Office cannot rely on the independence of judges because it depends on the Minister of Justice. Article 151 of the Constitution enshrined the principle of the independence of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the conduct of individual investigations and prosecutions. Its mission is by no means to carry out the information only on its own account. Unlike counsel for the other parties, he does not defend particular interests but the public interest, which is that justice be done and that innocent people never be prosecuted and convicted. The Court of Cassation has again recently recalled that the task assigned to the Public Prosecutor's Office is not limited to that of an accuser. He also intervened at the trial to propose a judicial solution to the judge. The information is not carried out solely on a charge basis. I had the opportunity to recall this on 30 April last, at the study day devoted to the future of the office and status of the investigating judge in Belgium, organised by the investigating judges. But above all, the proposed extension of the scope of the mini-investigation does not imply that any of the powers of the investigating judge should be entrusted to the Public Prosecutor's Office in view of an essential guarantee which I do not intend to limit. I quote: "After the execution of the investigative act carried out by the investigating judge, it is the investigating judge who sovereignly decides his appeal, if he refers the case back to the king's prosecutor, who is responsible for the continuation of the information, or if on the contrary he continues the investigation himself." It is the investigating judge who alone can choose to focus on the case where it represents an added value. The Prosecutor's Office therefore has no means of putting the investigating judge out of play or of turning him into a buffer judge whose intervention would be limited to a mere formality. You will recall that I replied to Mr. Van Hees, during the plenary session on 21 May, that "I have no intention, as Mr Claise says, of turning the investigating judge into a small hand or a simple mailbox because the mailboxes do not have the power to decide sovereignly to keep or return the letters entrusted to them". I observe that investigative judges decide every day to return files to the King's prosecutor after having ordered or not the investigation, for example an autopsy, required by a mini-investigation. The idea of expanding the scope of mini-education is not new. It is not even the prerogative of the parties making up this government. For example, Mr. Vande Lanotte proposed such an expansion of the search in two bills, the last of which was tabled on December 12, 2014. In his developments, Mr Vande Lanotte noted that "in practice, we see that the confidence of the investigating judges themselves in the Public Prosecutor's Office continues to grow as the figure of the mini-investigation is applied more and more frequently. However, in the light of the Constitutional Court's judgement of 2202/2004 of 21 December 2004, which, inter alia, annulled a previous amendment to article 28septies of the Code of Criminal Procedure, it appears that the resulting discrimination against other comparable measures with regard to the measure of infringement of privacy could have been censored by this Court. It was therefore necessary to extend to all these measures the possibility of using mini-education." This in no way anticipates a fundamental choice regarding the role of the investigating judge to be discussed in the context of the forthcoming general reform of the criminal procedure. On the question of the workload of the prosecution and the rate of classification without follow-up, I note that the most complex instructions on financial crime often last so long that they are prescribed or that the reasonable period of time is exceeded. The settlement of the procedure is often even the fatal pitfall to the procedure in the Sabena tax fraud case. In this regard, I refer to my Justice Plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u38	Minister, thank you for your clarification. In any case, understand that I remain dubitative as to the value of modifying the existing system. The argument of efficiency is, in my view, not of obvious relevance. Moreover, in the case of fundamental reform, the adaptation of the Public Prosecutor's Office in terms of independence remains indispensable and there is no indication that this need will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u39	Minister, this is no secret, computerization is a concern to all of us. We will also have an afternoon of work on the subject. Last week we received the Court of Cassation, which came to present its annual report. I was particularly struck by the situation with regard to computerization and the server of the Court of Cassation. My questions are very concrete. Will the server used by the Court of Cassation be replaced or not? Is it planned or not to adapt the SYSCAS system and application that had initially been developed by a private company which unfortunately went bankrupt? The person from this private company has been integrated into the Justice FPS to keep the intelligence of this software. I learn that this person would have a fixed-term contract, so there is a certain urgency to act. I hope that this will be explained to us in your answer. In your reflection, will the server of the Court of Cassation be able to take advantage of information from other jurisdictions with the compatibility that must go hand in hand?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u40	Mr President, the priority for the Court is to ensure the continuity of the existing computer system. The administration was recently able to conclude a consultancy contract for this purpose. An experienced computer scientist with the technologies used by the Court's system has been in operation since May 11 and is responsible for its maintenance. It is currently focusing on the migration of old environments to a modern central server. As regards the modernisation of the application, the administration was aware of the requests made by the Court. These could not be achieved earlier for contractual reasons. Once the server migration is complete, the first phase of modernisation will be possible within a few weeks. This modernization will follow a step-by-step plan using a service-oriented strategy, allowing for the co-existence of older applications with more modern components.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u42	Mr Minister, your colleague, the Minister of the Interior and you were questioned this Wednesday, May 20, on the deconcentration of extremely important investigative services in the fight against economic and financial crime, namely the Central Office for Combating Economic and Financial Crime (OECDFO) and the Federal Computer Crime Unit (FCCU). In response to these questions, you said that "OECDFO's investigative capacity will be deconcentrated in the district judicial directorates". And the Minister of the Interior was even more explicit in saying that "the service of OECDFO ceases to exist and is entirely deconcentrated towards borough levels". With other stakeholders, whether political or judicial, I would like to strongly challenge these choices and ask myself about the process that led to them, hoping that the government will be able to change course. Minister, is this decision final? The Minister of the Interior has just told me that the necessary royal decree had not yet been made and that consultations were taking place. By whom and when has this decision been or will it be made? What is its legal basis? What justifies a change in the government's position with respect to its commitment not to touch on investigative and intervention capabilities "for the fight against corruption, serious forms of economic and financial crime and ICT crime"? What bodies have been consulted on it? Has the College of Attorneys General been asked about this? What was his reaction? Were the judges directly concerned by this decision questioned? Will they be? Will their views be taken into account? Who will now be the contact point for foreign states in cases related to financial crime or computer crime? How will the interdisciplinarity and specialization of federal intervention services be ensured in these very high-tech cases, which require multidisciplinary teams (fiscalists, police and others)? To what extent will the usefulness and sometimes the need for the use of investigators from other judicial or specialized districts in certain particularly sensitive cases be taken into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u43	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, first of all, section 102 of the Act establishing an integrated police service, structured on two levels, sets out the tasks of the Directorate-General of the Judicial Police. Its main role is to contribute to the optimal integrated operation by ensuring the execution of support missions to the directorates and services. Article 105 of the same Law determines the deconcentrated management tasks. A draft royal decree on the organic picture of the Federal Police aims to achieve a distribution and deconcentration of human resources. He's still in discussion. Secondly, as a result of Article 105, § 11 of the same Law, it will be for the King, after deliberation in the Council of Ministers, to lay down the arrangements for the direction, coordination and commitment of staff in the field of organised economic and financial crime, tax and social fraud and ICT crime. Thirdly, the deconcentration under discussion does not in any way call into question the government's commitment to the fight against organised economic and financial crime, tax and social fraud and ICT crime. The Government's injection of budget resources, for example to the benefit of cybercrime, is a clear indication of compliance with this commitment. Fourthly, consultations of relevant bodies are under way and are being pursued in order to optimize processes and collaboration among the various partners concerned. Fifth, however, sufficient safeguards must be integrated to strengthen partnerships between the Regional Computer Crime Units (RCCU) and between the FCCU and the RCCUs. It goes without saying that maintaining the 24-hour period is essential in this regard, as well as contacts with foreign States. In view of the fact that the fight against financial crime and the fight against tax and social fraud are priorities in the government agreement, sufficient operational guarantees must be provided so that existing cooperation with the FPS Finances, the FPS Social Security, the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Concertation, the National Social Security Office and the National Employment Office can be continued. In accordance with the Optimization Act, it will be examined, in consultation with the FPS Finances, how tax inspectors can be made available in the deconcentrated directorates of the Federal Judicial Police (PJF) of the Courts of Appeal. Within the College of Prosecutors General, a reflection by the Prosecutor General of Brussels is under way to direct these inspectors by jurisdiction. As the Attorney General mentioned in his press conference last Friday, an initiative will be taken to conclude the necessary protocols with the relevant partners. Sixthly, with regard to the assurance of the interdisciplinarity of specialization, I refer to the provisions clearly defined by the Integrated Police Act in its Article 105, § 11.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u44	Minister, thank you. I note that the Royal Decree has not yet been adopted, that there are ongoing intentions and consultations. You are more careful than your colleague the Minister of the Interior, whom I have just questioned. Nevertheless, I would like to reiterate my concern that, beyond a partial deconcentration towards judicial districts, a central force of sufficient strength to ensure both the coordination of missions, the international representation of Belgium, the speed of reaction, interdisciplinarity and coordination between different judicial districts should be maintained. For me, it's really fundamental. In the end, if you decide to delete OECDFO, your commitments to combat financial crime will be considered invalid. Indeed, I think it will be both a symbolic and a truly problematic act. I have decided, in addition to the questions I have just asked the Minister of the Interior and which I have just asked you, to question the Prime Minister on this subject. This is clearly in our view a matter of government. Since I am a highly positive and optimistic person, as the royal decree has not yet been taken, I consider that there is nothing wrong, but that there are options which are particularly disturbing and unwelcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u45	Mr. Minister, Mr. de Codt has raised concerns with regard to the staff environment and the significant delays, in his view, between the publication of the vacancy and the appointment of persons to fill the duties that are the subject of the call for applications. Minister, what assessment do you make of the current situation of staff at the Court of Cassation? What is the dynamics and logic of the replacement of vacant posts in the Court of Cassation, both at the level of the Court itself and of the Office of the Public Prosecutor or the Registry?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u46	Mr President, the number of members of the Court of Cassation is as follows. For advisors, 29 out of 30 places are filled in the framework. For referendums, the number of seats is 12 out of 15. And for the staff in general, the present strength is 58.2 while the framework is only 55. The framework is thus met to a maximum of 105.82 per cent of the occupancy standard. As far as staff are concerned, the court also has 10 authorized excesses. If we compare against the over-numbers granted, we arrive at a present workforce of 58.2 on a 65 frame, or 89.53 per cent of the occupancy standard. The figures are as follows for the Attorney-General of the Court of Cassation: Advocates-General 13/13, Staff 15.2/19. As far as staff are concerned, the court also has two authorized excesses. If we compare against the over-numbers granted, we arrive at a present workforce of 15.2 on a 21 frame, or 70.83 per cent of the occupancy standard. The number of imminent vacancies in the office of magistrate will be published in the Belgian Moniteur on 29 May 2015, in particular, three vacancies in the office of adviser to the Court and one vacancy in the office of Advocate General for the Office of the Public Prosecutor. With regard to vacancies for judicial staff, the situation was as follows: a vacancy in the position of prosecutor was published in March 2015. The selection is still under way. The change package was launched in May 2015 for various jobs at the headquarters and the public prosecutor's office. Specifically, a clerk, an assistant at the Registry and an assistant at the Public Prosecutor's Office. If these jobs are not filled by transfer, vacancies may be published by agreement of the Finance Inspector. The scope of the referendums is fifteen, while the present number is twelve. These vacancies cannot be filled as there are no more successful candidates on the examination giving access to an appointment as a referendum. For the sake of completeness, I would like to point out that a clerk-secretary review is under way. Its results will be known at the end of June-early July. Finally, I can inform you that the new circulars on the Federal Monitoring of Personnel Credits were published at the Belgian Monitor on 26 May. They will, of course, serve as a basis for determining the vacancies to be published.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u47	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic181x.u48	As Mrs Ann Vanheste was not present, her question No 4532 was withdrawn. The same applies to Question No 4603 by Mr Koenraad Degroote, who is also absent.
