ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u1	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, this is a matter of interest to me. With the exception of orthodontics (i.e. dental appliances) and stomatology benefits, dental nomenclature benefits are fully reimbursed to beneficiaries under the age of 18. On the bottom, we can rejoice. It is true that it is working for the future. By properly maintaining our children's teeth, we can hope that later the cost of dental care will be lower. I would point out, however, that this is only dental care for dentists who apply the agreed rates. If this is the case, the specialist may charge an additional fee for each consultation or treatment, but this is another debate. I would also point out that benefits which are not included in the nomenclature will not be reimbursed. Children and adolescents can therefore go to the dentist without money and sometimes even alone, as parents are not always available to accompany them. The young person is therefore confronted with his dentist in whom he most often has full confidence. At least I hope so. At the time of the usual full reimbursement documents, the dentist must list all the benefits performed on the patient in order to know what rate to apply. The temptation may be great to inflate a thing these services performed in order to gain more. The patient, often without professional-specific vocabulary, does not notice inconsistency. Of course, minister, on the number of practitioners, I really hope that most of them are truly honest and that they do not intend to fraud the state. But don't we say we always have to be careful? I therefore believe that it is appropriate to put in place or, if not already, to strengthen a system of control to combat such fraud effectively. Trust must not, of course, exclude control. I think it's a saying that I repeat myself, even in the commune! Minister, are you aware of this problem? Can you tell me whether such facts have already been reported? What are you planning to tackle this problem or to effectively control the system? I would also like to ask you a question about free care. I think it is essential that dental care for those under the age of 18 be truly affordable and accessible to all. On the other hand, complete gratuity can lead to certain drifts. I'm thinking that having a one or two euro user ticket would make it possible to get the mutual payment back and avoid abuse. I would like your opinion on this. I'm not saying that there's too much fraud, I'm just saying that temptation can sometimes be important. I have three children. This subject had me a little stopped when I took them to the dentist or when they went alone without money. They return without a single mutual paper and therefore no control is possible. My question was mainly based on a family or field phenomenon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am indeed aware of a problem relating to the possible fraud of a small group of dentists. It is never easy for the patient, especially for children, to know what care has been provided and whether the care is in line with the care that has been certified. However, we did not find more abuse at the level of insured persons under 18 years of age. However, the matter may be discussed at a forthcoming screening. The Medical Assessment and Control Service regularly ensures that dental practitioners properly certify their benefits. During the period from January 2012 to the end of December 2014, that is, over three years, 381 checks were carried out and 164 infringements were found. Forty-nine of these cases are pending for possible sanction. With respect to the remaining 115 files, amounts unduly paid have already been recovered and a warning has been given. Denunciations of the facts by insured persons, insurers and health-care providers are mainly at the origin of these cases. The National Dentomut Agreement concluded on 23 December 2014 reinforces a number of measures aimed at better combating dentistry fraud. These measures are not specifically aimed at situations involving young people, but at deterring fraudulent dentists and making it easier to prosecute fraudulent dentists. As I said, this concerns only a small group which can, however, be detrimental to the profession. The dentists therefore gave their full approval for the addition of measures to avoid possible abuse in the national agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u3	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u4	That was decided by my predecessors. In my view, the question is very difficult. In fact, it should be noted that at the time, it was necessary to quickly begin to treat the teeth and mouth. Access to care was also precarious for some children. We are not going to change things quickly, but it is clear that abuse must be avoided.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u5	Minister, thank you for your full answer. When we see abuses or frauds, we need not a possible sanction but a real sanction! I think you'll agree with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u6	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u7	For free dental care, I'll join you. In very precarious environments, something really had to be done. If the user ticket was 1 euro or 1.50 euro, this should not prevent parents from treating their children's teeth. On the other hand, care that is well done is a guarantee for the future. This will reduce certain costs in the future. We still have to control because trust does not exclude control. We are in a situation where there is margin but let us not generalize. All dentists do not work this way, there are still very honest people. On the other hand, we really have to hunt those who are not.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u8	I think it's good to have included this in the dentomut agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u9	Questions Nos 1607 and 2221 by Mr Clarinval were postponed at his request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u10	Madam Minister, pursuant to Article 20 of the Social Insurance Charter, which was introduced in 1995 to protect those who are socially insured and receive benefits, interest may be due when late or insufficient payments are made, in other words when the administration makes mistakes. The article has a dual purpose: to protect the rightholder and to encourage the administrations to improve their functioning, not to make mistakes and to be on time. In itself, all this is good, but unfortunately, the social insured person is obliged to ask explicitly that the interest in the delay should be paid. So they are not automatically paid. In other branches, such as taxation, this is often the case. In this respect, the Charter's objective is often not achieved. Perhaps this is due to a failure on the part of the legislator in 1995. In your policy paper, you spoke explicitly about the Social Insurance Charter, which celebrates its 20th anniversary. Maybe that's the opportunity to evaluate it and see if any revisions are needed. It seems to me that there is certainly a review on this point. Madam Minister, have you taken steps, or will you, to revise the Charter and to increase the customer-friendliness of social security? Has the article on negligence interests been specifically considered? Do you have any idea how often the payment period between 2005 and 2015 was exceeded and how many people are involved? Do you have figures on the number of persons who have asked for the interest or on the number of persons who have not applied, even if their benefit was paid late or not paid? Is there any record of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u11	Mr President, the coalition agreement rightly refers to the social security charter, which is already a number of years old. In accordance with Article 20 of the Charter, the performance of the service must, by law, bear interest as from their due date and at the earliest at the end of the payment period. Since the legislator has developed that provision with the aim of speeding up the handling of the files, it is necessary to ensure the correct application of the provision. I will therefore pay attention to this in the context of the new administrative agreements with the public social security institutions that are coming. The College of Public Social Security Institutions has also entrusted its own working group with the revision of the Social Insurance Charter. This includes all public social security institutions and the FPS Social Security Office. The working group meets regularly in the premises of the RIZIV, he reports on his work to the college and, of course, informs me about it. The Working Group has made a draft law revising Articles 17, 18 and 19 of the Charter. These changes will make it easier to take account of the interests of the insured person. The articles are drafted more clearly in order to harmonise deadlines and to remind them that the Charter is a minimum basis for the protection of the social security system. The various public social security institutions may, however, provide for special rules, provided that they are more favourable to the social security system. We can deviate from those deadlines, but they must always be shorter and more favourable. Most of the persons responsible for applying the Charter of the various public institutions of social security have followed the certified training on the social security charter organized by the Training Institute of the Federal Government. Training clearly responds to a need and will also allow staff to apply the Charter more effectively, as the legislator suggests, so that the social security authorities can assert their rights. Perhaps we will have to launch another campaign to promote the existence of the Charter among the socially insured. The right holders often do not have the rights set out in the Charter. We must do this on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the Charter and the 70th anniversary of our social security. With an information campaign for the general public, we want to reach as many people as possible with as little money as possible. We can also launch other campaigns than we used to by tapping into the new channels. A working group is working on this in order to examine what we will do and how much resources we can use, preferably as little as possible. If we're gonna launch a campaign, she's gonna have to be efficient. As far as your question is concerned, I have requested that information, but I will have to deliver it to you later, because I have not yet been given all these figures. A numerical question is normally also a written question. The figures were requested and will be delivered as soon as possible. The review of three articles is under discussion. The changes will be put into a design and then they will go further. The aim is to modernise the Charter, as stated in the coalition agreement. We started with that and I will take your Rule 20 to the next meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u12	Madam Minister, I am glad to hear that a number of things are happening. That information campaign is urgently needed. For my question, I surfed a bit myself. It is really difficult to get information about the Charter and about rights. It's very well hidden. I understand that this working group is working on Articles 17, 18 and 19. Perhaps he could also examine Article 20. At one of the next meetings of the Social Affairs Committee, we will launch a debate specifically on Article 20 to see if we can give Parliament a boost.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u13	That's an interesting subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u14	Absolutely, Mr President. I am also happy to find us all in good condition after we have spent the night together. Perhaps that should not be in the report. It may give rise to misinterpretations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u15	It has also been reported.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u16	I recently asked Mr Bacquelaine, the Minister for Pensions, about the accumulation of a civil servant's pension with a sickness benefit for persons with mixed employment. There is still work to be done on the problem of mixed employment. It needs to be made more interesting for people. Minister Bacquelaine announced that he would provide a solution in the short term. That file is ongoing. Another but similar problem arises when people have worked for a long time in a system of employees or self-employed persons and become civil servants at the end of their career. If they are employed as an official for less than 10 years and have to cease their duties for medical reasons, they will receive a very limited income as an official calculated on their short-term performance as an official. Only at the age of sixty-five do they receive their retirement pension, calculated on the basis of their previous benefits as an employed or selfemployed person. The minimum pension in the public sector does not provide a solution, either because they have a short career or a relatively low wage. A coherent problem is the approach of retirement, on the one hand, and as sickness or invalidity benefits for reintegration into the labour market, on the other. The Medical Expertise Board, Medex, and its own committees of, for example, soldiers, police officers and SNCB staff, look at the problem of re-employment within their own working environment. This is more widely addressed in the workers' system. In the case of compulsory retirement after 365 days of illness after the age of 60, no consideration is given at all to reintegration. Contrary to the previous problem I raised with the Minister for Pensions, there may not be a quick fix here. It can only be fundamentally resolved by greater harmonisation of the status of private and civil servants and the inclusion of permanent officials in a system of ZIV benefits as opposed to the current system. The coalition agreement has thought of that. I quote: "The Government will examine, in consultation with the Regions, the Communities and local authorities, how the sickness pension for civil servants can be replaced by disability benefits under the sickness and invalidity scheme for employees." Hence my questions, Madam Minister, because today, in concrete cases, for people in that situation, this leads to very unpleasant situations. What steps will you take to implement the coalition agreement in this respect? Has this been discussed with the Communities and the Regions, as announced?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u17	In this respect, Mr De Roover, it is necessary to act jointly with the Minister for Pensions and to consult with the Regions, the Communities and local authorities, wherever this exists, on the replacement of the current sickness pension for statutory officials. That is actually a wrong term: just as a bridge pension is a wrong term, this pension is also a wrong term. It is not a full pension, it is pro rata: it is sometimes very small amounts, a few hundred euros, which people receive. We want to replace that scheme with an invalidity benefit scheme, as for other workers. Indeed, this will be done in the context of the gradual alignment of the statute on several points. The preparatory work is in progress. Before we enter into consultation, we must have some concrete ideas on the table. I have asked RIZIV and Medex to start preparing for this and check out the different slopes, to see how this could be done. In any case, the two bodies have expressed a great deal of willingness to participate fully in this reform. It is correct that the current sickness pension scheme for statutory officials does not take sufficient account of the possibility, on the basis of what people can still do, of finding a new employment post or employment for those concerned in the government. We will also apply this same principle to people who benefit from long-term sickness benefits. The forthcoming reform must also change this. We want to be more dynamic about this. People may not be able to do their former work anymore, but they may be able to find out what work they can do with the government, possibly part-time, and thus try to keep them active for longer. So there are two important issues. Firstly, reform the so-called pension system, which is actually not a pension but a sickness pension. Secondly, we must work towards reintegration so that everyone who is able to do so can remain active. The system should become much more dynamic.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u18	Madam Minister, with this specific case, we find ourselves at a crossroads of three important things for some people. Firstly, there is the specific problem for those affected by a rather strange situation which makes their income very low. There is therefore, first and foremost, the specific problem. Secondly, we are talking about the problem of the loss of mixed careers. I do not think that is what we want. We do not want to punish people for moving from one statute to another. On the contrary, we want to do something about this. Thirdly, as you have said, it is about creating the opportunity to be active longer, even if one is no longer able to carry out the old job or function, by looking at opportunities to remain active in other areas. With this question, we find ourselves at a crossroads of three important things which certainly make it appropriate for us to be able to speed things up. I am counting on you, together with Minister Bacquelaine, to speed up your policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u19	Mr. Chair, Minister, some consulting physicians appear to be abusing the benefits plan normally provided for contracted physicians. They would thus introduce each year the premium application form (valued at €4,505 in 2015) as well as a declaration on honour stating that they adhere to the medical-mutualist agreement, while they are employed full-time by mutualities and subject to strict incompatibilities linked to their professional status not allowing them to practise in a medical office. They would also receive a pension supplement. This would amount to an annual amount of around 175,000 euros. It is also surprising that INAMI has granted these benefits for years, it seems, to some medical consultants. According to the Journal du médecin, this problem was put on the agenda of the medical-mutualist commission of 9 February 2015 (I had introduced my question before that date). Minister, this situation is challenging. Could you please indicate precisely which categories of doctors were able to benefit from the premium and the supplementary pension without being entitled to it? I have referred to the situation of medical consultants; perhaps there are other categories of physicians who also find an advantage when they are out of order. Do you have any specific figures for indelicate physicians? What are the conclusions of the medical-mutualist committee of 9 February, if this matter has been dealt with there? I dare to imagine that this is also an issue for you. What steps can you and INAMI take to resolve this situation? I am very surprised that INAMI has granted these benefits. Who knows the rule better than INAMI itself?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u20	Mr President, dear colleague, the medical consultants who have benefited from the benefits are those who applied and whose application met the conditions. The application form must be submitted to the Health Care Service between 1 April and 30 June of the year concerned. In this form, the doctor declares on honour that he adheres to the agreement and complies with the terms of the agreement. This notion of a declaration on honour is somewhat vague. The benefits consist of a premium paid by INAMI to the doctor's insurance company under a pension insurance contract concluded between the doctor and the company. INAMI does not grant any other pension bonus or supplement to the doctor other than these benefits. In 2013, the premium was €4,444 and 47 medical consultants received benefits for 2013. INAMI does not intend to initiate any procedure to recover the indus trial amounts of 2013 as the legal texts are currently interpretable in different ways. For 2014, eight physicians are expected to benefit from benefits and, after verification by the Medical Assessment and Control Service, these physicians have had an activity as part of the out-of-office health-care insurance as a medical consultant. The premium for 2014 amounts to €4,505. The medico-mutualist committee met on 9 February and voted in particular on a proposal for the granting of social benefits to doctors, i.e. the exclusion of medical consultants from the benefit of social benefits. The system will change. It will no longer be the declaration of honour, it will be the reverse. Proof of entitlement to benefits will be required, depending on the number of benefits. We have taken effective action.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u21	Minister, thank you for your answers. I note that statements on honour have been used to the greatest extent possible. You didn't tell me what happened to 2013, but, obviously, there are situations where there was no activity practice. Furthermore, I would like to point out that there are strict rules of incompatibility between the full-time practice of medical counseling employed by mutualities and another medical practice. I am therefore astonished by your comments about the eight doctors who, in 2014, combined their work as a doctor-counsel and another activity in the context of health care that could give them the right to these social benefits. I think there is a question of personal ethics. Moreover, since we know that some files are not clear, it would be worthwhile for INAMI to look at them, not only with regard to the future – I will come back – but also with regard to what has happened in recent years. It would not be normal, in my view, for us to think that there would have been abuse and that we would leave things as they were. Of course, it is necessary to check the facts, not to accuse for the pleasure of accusing – some cases may actually be in order – but where an abuse is proven, it is necessary to be able to correct and recover the undue amounts. Finally, with regard to the amendment and proposal of the February Committee on Health and Consumer Protection, from the moment when there are abuses, the rule must be changed. Probably a declaration on honour only works when ethical behaviour is impeccable. If it is necessary to go through a process of control and justification on the basis of evidence, I think it is necessary to do so. You answered me for the medical consultants. I imagine, as you have not told me, that there are no other types of doctors who have behaved in such a way that I would call indelicacy. I see you say "no" from the head, so thank you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u22	The declaration of honour is made in all sincerity, but some have "forgotten" that they have made a fairly high number of other benefits, no longer giving them the right to social benefits. There, we closed the door.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u23	Minister, I agree a thousand times with you that the vast majority has responsible and correct ethical behaviour. But the image of a few unacceptable situations has a negative impact on all doctors, which presents them a little like those who would always want to abuse this system, or even as cheaters. It is a shame for the vast majority who respect the rules!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u24	Mr Vercamer has failed, but I do not know why. His question No. 2107 is therefore converted into a written question. Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht 2184 by Mrs Smaers will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u25	Mr President, Minister, placing a medical instrument on the market is a long and uncertain process. A company wishing to market a medical instrument must comply with the ISO standard. In addition, the product should be CE marked. The preparation of the application file is reported to take up to 12 months. The file is being processed and there will be an audit. After that, it will be at least four to six months before the marking is given and the product could finally be placed on the market. It is difficult to calculate how many products a company can sell because the sale is related to the refund and thus to obtaining a RIZIV number. For a medical instrument, the procedure for getting a RIZIV number is not nearly as smooth as for example a vaccine or a pharmaceutical industry medicine, for which standard procedures exist. The RIZIV system is like a huge database. For the patient and his treatment it may be useful to analyse that mass of data. Everyone may agree that medical data should be treated strictly confidentially. In this information age, however, it could be expected that the medical world will set up structures to facilitate the use and sharing of data. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. How do you view the concept of anonymous knowledge sharing of the information from the RIZIV database? For what purposes could this data be used, outside the Crossroads Bank of Social Security, the Inter-Mutualist Agency, etc.? Are there any specific bodies that promote cooperation between the medical community and the entrepreneurial community on product development?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u26	Mr President, Mr Demon, you have already read that this is a booming business. There is a lot on the market and we are also faced with a European regulation on medical devices. In this context, the procedure for placing those devices on the market is further examined. Appropriate analysis is needed to ensure patients access to medical devices, but they must also meet quality and safety requirements. Given the increasing diversity and technicality of these tools, we need an analysis of them. Since 1 July 2014, the new procedure for the reimbursement of implants and invasive medical devices has been applicable. This new procedure is inspired by these for proprietary medicinal products and also addresses the bottlenecks identified following contacts with hospital managers, insurance institutions and not least industry. The RIZIV does not have a single database covering all health care data. This information is disseminated through insurance institutions, carers and specific registers. For example, the Qermid Orthopride project, which stands for orthopedic prosthesis identification data electronic registry, exists for the implant sector. In other words, this is a registration system which is made available to orthopedists and which allows them to record information on the placement of hip and knee prostheses in order to also establish a Belgian register of joint replacements. The purpose of this is to collect the data to allow professionals to examine the quality of care in the placement of knee and hip prostheses. A second objective is to provide information on the type of prosthesis placed on the patient, possibly also for consultation or when appropriate adjustments are required. A third objective is to determine the lifespan of prostheses, because it is important to know how long a knee or hip prosthesis has been helped. It is also important to avoid giving people two or three prostheses in a row. Other examples of automated registers are the Qermid registers relating to endoprostheses, the coronary stents, the implantable heart defibrillators and pacemakers. The government agreement provides for the development of a centralised health information system within the framework of eHealth that will fill the gaps in the knowledge landscape. This promotes communication between healthcare providers, insurance institutions and government, and also provides transparent information to the patient, as well as to research institutions, each time with respect for the privacy of the patient. In this context, I also refer to the eHealth Action Plan 2013-2018 and in particular to Action Line 18 of this Plan, which included the inventory and consolidation of health and health information registers as a priority. The Law of 10 April 2014 on various health provisions allowed the RIZIV and the Scientific Institute of Public Health to cooperate systematically. Their data collection should increase public health knowledge. A cooperation agreement between the RIZIV and the Scientific Institute of Public Health with a view to organising a technical service called healthdata.be, for the collection, management and unlocking of health and health care, and of scientific research data, you know that this data is anonymised, was submitted to the RIZIV Insurance Committee on 23 February 2015. The first step towards more data exchange has been taken. We are also working on a centralised healthcare information system. It may take a long time for the applicants, but we must be sure. Do you remember the very large entanglement after the affair around the PIP implants in women? In France, there is a higher incidence of a particular type of lymphoma in addition to the other symptoms. In addition, there is the phenomenon of squeaking hips. We must be sure that the quality and safety of the product are guaranteed before we allow it to be implanted into the body of a person.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u27	Madam Minister, I hear you talking about the various bodies that make the exchanges possible, but I do not hear you saying anything about mutualities and intermutualist agencies. Can they also exchange information or do you prefer not to give a ruling on it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u28	The mutualities can already consult data at the RIZIV, subject to payment. The exchange of information via the Inter-Mutualist Agency is already possible. A direct exchange with the RIZIV in this respect is only taking place to a limited extent. However, we always continue with eHealth. If by 2019 we have our electronic patient file for every citizen, for every Belgian and for every person who is entitled to medical care on our territory, it is of course possible to centralize more data. Then everyone will have an electronic patient file. Then it will again be possible to collect data, although not from the patient file, but from large population groups, for example people with hip prostheses or people with stent. Of course, that always happens in an anonymized way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u29	Madam Minister, I tabled my question about a month ago following your presentation in the newspapers of the draft mandatory reintegration plan, which is also envisaged in the government agreement and in your policy paper. You have remained rather vague in this matter and your deputy secretary, with whom I had a conversation during the long night, has not gone into the content. He'll leave that to you. I understand that steps are being taken to make progress on the dossier. Moreover, I have made a number of recommendations in an opinion document. However, I am glad to be able to ask you a few questions in committee. My first question concerns the greater role of the company doctor. At present, jurisdiction in this matter rests with the treating and the consulting physician. Do you think that the company doctor can have a coordinating or still an important role in the re-integration plan to be drawn up? The company doctor has a better view of the specific work situation of the sick worker, doesn't he? He is also more independent from the sick person, compared to the treating doctor or the counseling physician. The customer relationship also plays a bit with that. Secondly, when we talk about labour integration and a multidisciplinary approach, not only doctors should be involved. Should labour integration specialists or labour market specialists also have a say in the formulation of a reintegration plan? Thirdly, since it is a new task, there is a demand for capacity, especially in the light of the objective of getting as many people into work as possible. Indeed, to draw up all these integration plans and hold evaluation sessions, staff, money and resources are needed. How do you see that? Fourthly, you speak in your newspaper article of the mandatory nature of the reintegration plan. Is the obligation to draw up a plan only for the government after three months? Or is the sick worker also obliged to participate in the formatting and implementation of the reintegration plan? If not, I don't think such a plan has the same chance of success. If there is an obligation for the employee, is there some kind of sanction involved? The main link in the whole process of re-integration is, of course, the employer. Have you considered a number of incentives for employers, both for the employer where the sick worker is employed and for the other? How will you convince them to participate in the reintegration plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u30	Mr Spooren, there has indeed been a great deal of discussion on this, because the reintegration plan is actually something relatively new. They do not have much experience with this yet. It is clear that the employer plays a key role in assessing whether or not the employee can get back to work with the old employer. In addition to the occupational physician, there is also the treating physician, who certainly knows what his patient has. Both of you need to talk to each other. In addition, there is also the consultant. The prevention adviser or occupational physician cannot always play the central role to which you refer. What if, for example, the employee no longer has a contract of employment? At that time, there is no prevention counsellor or occupational physician available to him either, because he no longer has an employer. The government intends to introduce similar reintegration pathways for disabled self-employed and unemployed people. In its recent opinion No. 1923 of 24 February 2015 also urges the National Labour Council to do so. There are no prevention advisers or occupational physicians for both target groups. Not all disabled workers will be able to return to the old employer. We have already discussed this. In a number of cases it will also be necessary to look for employment with another employer or in another sector. If one is working in a sector with only heavy work and the incapacity is such that one cannot carry out heavy physical work anymore, one will have to look at what can be done. Rather, the search will have to be addressed to an advisory physician of the sickness fund. This can be very helpful through the cooperation agreements concluded by the RIZIV with the VDAB, Forem and Actiris. Thus, the occupational physician often plays a key role, but in cases where there is no occupational physician, he cannot, of course, perceive that role. For the rest, there is still some hesitation on the part of employers about the start-up of part-time work with the permission of the medical consultant. This hesitation must also be removed so that the re-integration story becomes a success story. We have already talked about this. We also need to find, exchange and disseminate existing good practices. I believe that this is what I have done in the past in the field of poverty reduction rather than in sanctions in cases of non-compliance. In this context, disability case managers or labour integration specialists can indeed play a useful role. The RIZIV also wants to encourage the training and deployment of disability case management in the near future. At present, quite a lot of capacity remains unused. It is therefore essential to make effective and efficient use of existing capacity before considering the possibility of increasing capacity. In early 2014, the RIZIV and the VDAB carried out an evaluation of the first year and a half of the implementation of their cooperation agreement. This showed that there were still a number of problems in practice. We will, of course, resolve these bottlenecks and increase the number of routes within the existing funding. I do not need to remind you that I am engaged in a great exercise in social security. Within the budget I am allowed, taking account of the savings path, I try to get as much out of every euro as possible. It's not an easy exercise, not a walk in the park. Let me make that clear, especially now that I read that according to your party there is still a gold pot in social security. Take it from me I have a fair reputation that it is not. We're gonna have to tap into other sources. Finally, it is also fair to encourage all interested parties to cooperate. Therefore, when drawing up a new governance agreement with the RIZIV, I will also stress the need to examine the right and most efficient positive incentives for employers to be constructive. If the patients want to come along, that is one thing, but the employers must of course also want to come along. A good example of such an incentive has been found at regional level. In Flanders, an employer who employs a person with disabilities receives a support grant through the Flemish Agency for Persons with Disability. We are, of course, not talking about long-term sick or people who can't do anything at all, but about people with what they call residual capacity. Research has shown that there is also a great willingness to remain active in those who are still able to handle any activity. I would prefer to approach labour reintegration in a positive way rather than drag in the word sanction. If we get these routes on track and it turns out that some sick workers are clearly reluctant, despite a residual capacity to work, while their employer is willing to provide their suitable work, then I do not rule out the possibility that action will eventually be taken against them. After all, people really do show bad will. However, I first try to ensure that everything is well-oiled, especially since we have to work with three employment services. I want to approach the reintegration plan in a positive way, both for the patients and for the employers. Of course, the willingness of the occupational physicians and the treating physicians is also important. Let's make it a positive story, because it'll make everyone better. The level of activity is increasing and the citizens are getting better, because they are getting a social life again, increasing their income and re-inclusion in society. I think we can really make a nice, positive story out of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u31	Let me begin with your final remark. Of course, I fully agree with you that it is a positive story in which everyone wins. However, as with other categories of inactive people, I am pleased that you are encouraging an opening to this. If they still have residual capacity, they can be expected to use and cooperate, as you indicate. I think that's necessary. I can live with the fact that such a provision is not yet being worked out. I absolutely agree that reintegration into the labour market is a positive story. The figures also show that the vast majority really wants to work. A distinction must be made between those who cooperate and those who do not, even if they could indeed step into such a reintegration plan. What I do not agree with at all is the role of the company doctor. You take it as a professional doctor, i.e. the doctor of an employee through work. That's not my interpretation of the big role for the company doctor. I am concerned with the independent position and, above all, with the labour-oriented approach. For those who are no longer connected to a particular employer or self-employed person, you should think of an independent pool of health professionals and labour specialists who are either linked to a company or are only active in such a pool, just as there are agencies such as GTB or Actiris. The costs for this will not be higher or lower, because one also has to pay an advisory physician or one also has to pay a treating doctor if you give them a greater role. Only the approach, the orientation of such physicians is completely different, given their independent position. You may have misunderstood my recommendation. I hope you will consider them after my explanation. I'm the first to support you not to spend more. May I remind you that the cooperation agreements do have a recouping effect, according to evaluations? Of course, you cannot overestimate it in the budget, because then you are making a fool of yourself. However, there is evidence that euro debt instruments invested in labour integration are being recouped twice a year, I think it is 1 out of 7, as the government does not have to pay benefits and receives more social contributions and personal taxes. From my experience with international cooperation, I have learned that exchange of best practices always has a positive effect, but is not enough. We must not place too great expectations in that regard either. Closing regulations are always necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u32	(...) it can also be a nice and good story. I will take your idea of a pool of independent occupational physicians and ask you to investigate to what extent that is possible. I thought that the profession has recently been indisposed, that it is difficult to find new health professionals. I may be wrong there and I will check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u33	I'll check it out. That is not clear from the information I have at my disposal. I don't know. I don't know the numbers. I have spoken with a number of health professionals, and they have not shown that there would be a shortage. Rather, I think there is a shortage of counsellors. That's what I heard from the sickness funds. There is certainly a capacity problem in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u34	There is indeed a lot of work to be done. I'll see if a pool of independent occupational physicians is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u35	Mr President, Minister, this story may well be known to you. In a debate in the Flemish Parliament on 26 February, the answer to a question from Annick De Ridder to Minister Ben Weyts showed that certain trade union organisations at De Lijn have a practice whereby traffic fines, which are incurred by De Lijn drivers during their work, are refunded by the trade unions, on top of any compensation or partial reimbursement by De Lijn himself. The latter is dependent on the nature of the offence and any recidivism. Meanwhile, ACOD has confirmed this. You may have also seen the tickets showing the practices in the different provinces. Sometimes the unions even pay back penalties for drunk driving and mobile phones behind the wheel. I must not, of course, convince you, as a doctor and a socially sensitive person, that this is totally unacceptable in terms of social and road safety. Moreover, it is a true blow to the face of anyone who knows traffic victims in his immediate vicinity. I don't want to go any further on this now. I would like to ask you about the tax and parafiscal consequences of this practice. I have already questioned Minister Van Overtveldt about taxation. For the sake of parafiscality, I'd like to ask you a few questions. Firstly, what are the social security contributions obligations today when traffic fines committed by employees during duty hours are partially reimbursed by the employer or paid directly by the employer? If I am not mistaken, a patronial solidarity contribution of 33% is due. Secondly, what are the consequences if part of that reimbursement is not made by the employer but by a third party? In this case, it is about the unions within a company. Is there still an advantage of all kinds? This is the case in the field of taxation, and it is for this reason that company tax is to be paid. Tax and parafiscal is not always the same. There is no uniform wage concept. The question is, then, what is the situation on a parafiscal level? Should a solidarity contribution be paid? Thirdly, have your services already carried out checks in this area to see to what extent the current practice at De Lijn and the trade unions at De Lijn, which has since been extensively in the media, is in conformity with social legislation? I would be surprised if De Lijn did not comply with social legislation. However, I am asking myself the necessary questions about this practice in the trade unions. What are the penalties for those involved if this is not in accordance with the legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u36	Mr President, Mr Dedecker, I did not know anything about this and I have also frowned a little bit. We know each other from the Infrastructure Committee. You know how much effort we have made to reduce the number of infringements and the accidents involved. So indeed, I am sensitive to this problem. I can inform you that the obligations relating to the contributions to be paid to RSZ, when the employer pays or pays back the fines, are governed by Article 38 (3) of the Law of 29 June 1981 laying down the general principles of social security for employees. In accordance with this statutory provision, the employer is indeed liable to a solidarity contribution of 33% on all the sums which he pays instead of his employee or which he repays to his employee, in the case of a traffic fine, an amicable settlement or an immediate collection of a traffic fine, if incurred by the employee during the performance of his employment contract. In the case of traffic fines resulting from a serious traffic offence, we are talking about third- and fourth-degree offences, and traffic fines of at least EUR 150 resulting from a speeding offence, a solidarity contribution of 33% must always be paid. For traffic fines resulting from a minor traffic offence, those of the first and second degrees, and traffic fines of less than 150 euros resulting from a speeding offence, an amount of 150 euros on an annual basis and per employee shall be exempted from the solidarity contribution. The amount of the overrun is then subject to the solidarity contribution of 33%. This solidarity contribution shall not be payable on traffic fines resulting from the condition of the rolling stock and the conformity of the load. This is mainly about heavy goods vehicles and heavy traffic, or if something happens that the driver himself cannot do anything about. Article 36 of the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969 implementing the Law of 27 June 1969 revising the Decree-Law of 28 December 1944 on social security for workers governs the situation when part of the wage is paid to an employee through the intervention of a third party. Since Article 36 of the Royal Decree replaces only the employer for the payment of contributions on wages, this cannot be applied without special contributions. The question of what to do with this can therefore only be addressed on the basis of the specific circumstances in which the third party makes these refunds and of any agreements that might have been concluded between the employer and the third party. I am told that it might be possible, in the event of an agreement between the employer and the third party, for the contribution of 33% to be charged to the employer. In the event that you quote, it seems that such an agreement does not exist. If they existed, that would be very strange. I do not know what the sanctions are, but I assume they exist in the event of non-payment. I do not know whether the fiscal aspect is so complicated. That falls within the competence of Minister Van Overtveldt.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u37	Madam Minister, I thank you for your concern in working out your answer, which is quite detailed. The situation is indeed different in fiscal and parafiscal terms. As far as taxation is concerned, if the employer pays, he must also include the withholding tax. If a third person pays, it's the same thing. Then the third must do so. He has to make up a sheet and declare it as an advantage of all kinds. Apparently, it's a lot more complicated here. Apparently, a distinction is made between the degrees of traffic offences. I find that very strange. I don't know if a second-degree violation is so socially responsible, but that's another discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u38	That's another discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u39	You have reiterated that you, like me, are sensitive to such matters. It is clear, of course, that if the offence is due to the condition of the rolling stock, then the person concerned is not liable. That is not his responsibility. It is a lot more complex and also very strange that people are working with exemptions from contributions and so on. That's very strange. We must continue to work towards equal tax and parafiscal treatment. At least we would have some logic in the policy, both in terms of contributions and in terms of road safety and a number of other matters. I believe that there is still work to be done, not only to achieve a single wage concept, but also, pending this, to harmonise a number of tax and parafiscal rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic122x.u40	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Becq's 2622 will be converted into a written question.
