ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u1	Mr President, Minister, the establishment of the tax mediation service was announced in 2006. The service had to prevent too many tax cases from being settled before the courts. This would reduce the legal backlog and speed up and improve the collection of taxpayers' money. The start-up was difficult. The staff was not created until 2010. In the course of 2010, the service received 1 198 applications, plus 194 applications submitted for the operationalisation of the service, which were still pending at the beginning of 2010. The poor success of the service was then known by the fact that too few citizens found their way to the service. The fourth annual report, dated 2013, shows that 3 127 applications were received in that year. Compared to the previous year, this is an increase of 14%. Based on the results of a satisfaction survey, the same year 2013 attempted to further increase the reputation of the service. The brochure was rewritten and the website was modified. I would like to ask you a number of questions about this today. First of all, is the operation of the tax mediation service cruising at cruising speed? How many files should the service normally be able to process in one year? Secondly, do you believe that the service is well known to citizens and professionals? If not, is there still a number of actions to increase name recognition? Thirdly, the 2013 annual report refers to the too short period during which mediation would be possible. Will this be done? Fourthly, on what points does the service intend to refine its operation in the coming years?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u2	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is very important that we upgrade the tax mediation service. That question also comes from the service itself. A member of the Management Committee has said that they are not sufficiently well-known. That's a problem. If a dossier could be of benefit to start mediation, the workload of other services could also be reduced. It is a good thing that objective, impartial and independent mediation can take place as far as possible in order not to get into a situation of conflict right away. So there is still an opportunity in the announcement, the promotion of that service. Another aspect is procedural. Where the mediation service is engaged or where such proceedings are pending, it may be useful for it to have a suspensive effect on the profession which can be exercised as a taxable person. So that is a problem, especially with the short term of 6 months. If there is no suspensive effect, I think that there are often unpleasant surprises. My questions and concerns can be resumed as follows. What about the promotion, the celebrity of the service? Is the suspensive effect indeed perceived as a pain point? Are there any intentions, initiatives or at least preliminary investigations on your instruction ongoing to arrange this? I believe that this also fits in with the taxification in order to strengthen the procedure of fiscal mediation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u3	Mr President, since the beginning of 2013, the tax mediation service has launched a campaign to raise awareness among the general public. The campaign started with the publication of an interview on the tax mediation service in the quarterly journal Accountancy & Tax, published by the Institute of Accountants and Tax Consultants. Since then, more than 35 seminars or training activities have taken place in order to make the tax mediation service better known to associations of persons in grade occupations and, in particular, to debt relief organisations. Each time the brochure of the service is distributed but also made available during events such as the Forum of the Future 2013 and the Taxman 2014. The brochure is also delivered systematically to certain organisations such as the OCMWFs. These initiatives seem to have not missed their goal. Both in 2013 and 2014 there is an increase in requests received of 14 % and 13 % respectively. I therefore believe that, on the basis of the information I have at my disposal, it can be stated that the service currently operates at cruising speed. Moreover, the recruitment of mediators is consistent on the basis of the number of files received, so that there is no processing limit. I am absolutely in favour of any new initiative taken by the college members of this service in order to make their service better known to the general public and to further refine its functioning in relation to the need. On 13 November 2014, you, Mr Deseyn, together with your colleague Mr Terwingen, submitted a legislative proposal aimed at introducing a legal suspension of the deadline within which the objection should be dealt with in the event of a request for mediation. The legislative proposal of 3 February 2015 by Ms Van Cauter and Mr Van Biesen is actually in line. As early as 28 January 2015, I answered a question from Mrs Van Cauter in this committee that I believe that the tax mediation service should be given a maximum of opportunities to reach a negotiated solution in a number of cases. This is certainly being discussed further in the forthcoming discussions on these legislative proposals, and this should contribute to a wider number of cases where mediation is actually possible. I therefore also believe that mediation as a means of alternative dispute resolution should also be encouraged in tax matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your positive reply. The service is getting more and more familiar. You confirm that you are also in favour of the financial mediation service being able to reach a negotiated solution in a maximum number of cases. Legislative proposals have been tabled, and I look forward to their consideration, as well as to the further publication and operation of this beneficial service that helps citizens, who have problems with payment, in a smooth and more humane way to find a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u5	Mr Minister, I believe that there is a very strong consensus in this committee and I believe that we will soon be able to bring forward the joint proposals on the issue of suspensive action. If the government can patronize this, then Parliament can ensure that a significant step forward is taken in the short term. The results and the growth rates of the promotion are good. A practical suggestion is to mention the possibility of mediation on the letter communication when certain disputes are announced, if there are fines, post payments and increases. They are in themselves not so evidently readable. The mediation service can mean something in this. We have also seen this in the telecoms sector. A small mention of the framework could mean a great deal to the consumer, in this case the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u6	Mr President, Minister, this question concerns a problem which is raised at regular intervals in this committee. That was also the case this week at the hearing with the responsible officer of the BBI. This is important, not only in the light of fiscal justice, but also because people would know that control actions are being carried out in a fair and well-distributed way. The Court of Auditors has already published several reports on this subject. Centrally controlled risk management is certainly a step forward. Anyone with the same risk profile should be subject to the same degree of control. However, we have seen in the field that there is still a great deal of discretion in the decentralised services and that effective control therefore depends very much on the decision on the ground and on the control capacity of the local control service. The BBI's agent confirmed that too this week. We have already had an exchange of views with your fellow Secretary of State. It was said that equality often depends on internal instructions. The effective treatment in the field has certainly not yet been achieved, but the tools exist to spread the controls to a large extent. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. What measures are in the pipeline to ensure a balanced distribution of control capacity? Quid that tax spread? Maybe we should get a new report. I remember studies by Deloitte and initiatives by the Court of Auditors. During the discussion of the policy paper, we said that it would not be bad if such an investigation were to take place effectively, so that we know where we stand. This would, as it were, be a new zero measurement to see what progress has been made during this legislature. Apparently some problems are experienced with the STIRCO programme and its integration into TAXI. Could that be a cause of the problems of the spread of controls? The Court of Auditors further notes that the first-line quality control of those audits often remains dead letter. What would be a good approach there? In general, how will you continue to discuss these additional policies with the FPS in order to achieve genuine equality of treatment between citizens and businesses?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u7	Mr President, Mr Deseyn, until 2012, the number of audit missions was determined by the available capacity of the local valuation services. However, from 2013 onwards, the mandatory audit assignments will be awarded at regional management level and work will be carried out with temporary cooperation to address the deficiencies in control capacity of certain local valuation services within a management board. This avoids the possibility of allocating high risk dossiers and ensures an equal chance of control for citizens and businesses with the same risk profile. The administration has a control dashboard at its disposal since 2014. This instrument allows for the use of available staff and other resources there where necessary, thus making optimal use of control capacity. In 2015, local valuation agents within the same management will have access to the management and control applications so that they will be able to perform remote control tasks for other services. This measure also promotes equal treatment for tax control. The finality of the STIRCO and TAXI applications are completely different. STIRCO manages the control activities of all types of taxes such as personal income tax, corporation tax, corporate tax and VAT and is actually a management tool for monitoring the control activities. TAXI is the management tool of the personal income tax and is mainly used to handle the declarations that cannot be processed automatically. Thus, integrating STIRCO and TAXI does not offer any added value. The administration has designed an application that is now in a test phase to carry out a quality control of controls online. This is already the case for management in the application TAXI and the roll-out is foreseen this year. In the meantime, an internal control system has been developed and several control actions have been monitored. From the above, I think, it is quite clear that the administration of the FPS Finance has indeed taken account of the recommendations made by the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for the interesting answer. There is clearly a positive evolution. The increased flexibility in the organisation, the management of administration and the strengthening of capacity leads to better results. A pain point remains the risk profile. It is a good thing that we are going to look first and foremost at the issues where the shoe is most pinched. However, in order to complete the story and to have the citizens with it, we will have to examine it at random enough. Certain samples may sometimes lead to the detection of certain risk derivatives that have not been detected by the statistical parameters. Therefore, certain regions or companies which have never been in a risk parameter have little chance of doing so, but that does not mean that the tax authorities cannot reveal anything interesting there. The risk profile is a matter of first things first, but I think it is interesting to follow the real distribution of the number of cases, the number of investigations, the number of companies and individuals who have been endorsed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u9	The data mining is trying to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u10	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it was in this Chamber that we had a very interesting debate in 2010 with a Minister and a Secretary of State who wanted to fight fraud not only with words but also with deeds. At that time I was also in the opposition, so it was not about a minister or a secretary of state who was linked to my party. They had a very interesting proposal, which we discussed for a long time. From the start it was certain that there would be a list of about thirty tax havens, such as Man and Jersey. However, the proposal meant that a second flexible list of countries that were branded by the OECD Global Forum would be drawn up as non-compliant with the commitments they had made in terms of transparency and exchange of information. That was a very interesting debate. We supported this proposal from the opposition. There was therefore a consensus on this in both the majority and opposition. All Belgian companies making a payment to a recipient in a listed country had to pass that payment data on to the tax authorities. This was particularly interesting because, on the basis of these payments, one could search for potentially risky constructions via data mining. It was possible to determine whether there was a risk of fraud or avoidance. ^ As far as I remember, I have not been able to check it out. There was certainly a very broad opposition support for this interesting instrument. Not all payments are avoidance or fraud, but the mapping of these capital flows allowed data mining to determine whether they were risky constructions. That law provided for a country to be on that second list for a year. This condition was met by two countries of the European Union, Luxembourg and Cyprus, and by the end of November 2014. I was honestly expecting the Ministry of Finance to take action. The law I am talking about, Article 307 of the Income Tax Code, stipulated that the Ministry of Finance should publish a letter of conversion. On December 16, 2014, when I didn't see anything, I questioned the minister. In his reply, he said, and I quote: "I have therefore instructed my administration to publish this supplement so that the companies concerned are informed in good time and can make the necessary preparations to comply with the obligation to make a declaration." A member of the opposition asks the Minister if he will do so. The Minister says: 'Yes, I am going to implement Article 307.' I've waited three months, but I don't see a letter coming. Where's the letter? Is it not unfair to taxpayers that they are not informed that if they have made payments to Luxembourg in the course of 2014 for more than EUR 100 000, they must indicate this? Minister, I look forward to your reply with great interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u11	Indeed, the circular of 30 November 2010 states that an additional circular will be published as soon as it is possible to identify those States which do not apply the international standard on transparency and exchange of information effectively and substantially. I have indeed instructed my administration to work out this supplement. Two elements are of great importance today. On the one hand, the Luxembourg Government has alerted the Peer Review Group, to which you also refer, that it is considered that all necessary legal and practical adjustments have been made in order to cease to be part of the OECD list. The Peer Review Group then launched an additional study on 16 January 2015. You also know, Mr Van der Maelen, that the launching of such an investigation by the Peer Review Group means that one implicitly acknowledges that the argument, put on the table, is of substantial value. On the other hand, the Luxembourg Government also points out that there are many countries for which the Peer Review Group's investigation has not yet been completed or which do not even succeed in the first phase of that investigation, but for which that investigation is no longer continued and which are therefore not included in the list. For the time being, the Peer Review Group is indeed only recording countries that are failing the second phase of the investigation. The Luxembourg Government considers this distinction to be clearly discriminatory in the context of the European Treaties. It therefore reserves the right to ask the European Commission for more concrete explanations and explanations on these points. I was also confirmed by the Luxembourg Government. Faced with these two elements, with this position, I have asked my administration to examine these European laws and regulations and to assess their merits before publishing the supplementary circular.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u12	Minister, I've been here for 25 years. I have been here for twenty-five years, but not yet that a minister in a committee in the Chamber, on 16 December, says: 'You are right, MP, I am going to implement that law: I am going to send a circular letter.' The same minister is now coming to say that he has decided himself not to implement that law. On what basis, Minister? On the basis of what the Luxembourg Government claims as its defence. I have here the text of Article 307 (1) (a) on which we are dealing. I can read that text, Minister, but that text is clear. The text refers to the OECD global forum. It does not say that we should not take into account the OECD global forum if the country concerned, which has been designated by the forum, protests against it. No, Minister, the simple fact, as confirmed by you yourself in your reply on 16 December 2014, that the OECD said in Jakarta on 20-22 November 2013 that Luxembourg and Cyprus are non-compliant, obliges you, and you promised to implement it first. Let me read you Article 108 of the Constitution, Minister. It is your constitutional duty to implement that law, especially after you first said that you fully agree with it and that you will implement it. I read Article 108: "The King of the Republic," and by that I mean the government, for the non-jurists among us, "make the regulations and take the decisions necessary for the implementation of the laws, without ever being able to suspend the laws themselves or to grant exemption from their execution." Mr Minister, from what you have just said, you will inform Luxembourg that you have heard his arguments and that you are exempting that country from implementing Belgian laws. Minister, I am sorry, but you have no right to do so. You must enforce the law. Secondly, I would like to talk about you in more detail. You say that Luxembourg has started a procedure, a review, as it is called in the jargon, to request it. Minister, I am sorry, but your circular should have been ready four or five months ago. If you really were a minister who wanted to tackle fraud, especially after all the stories confirmed through LuxLeaks, you would have acted differently. After all, it is absolutely clear that Luxembourg is an active player in fraud and evasion. Minister, if you really wanted to tackle fraud and evasion, you should have taken advantage of and taken action for a long time with Article 307 of the Income Tax Code, which is the instrument you are being presented with. Explaining that you want to tackle fraud and combat evasion is not enough. There must be action, but these actions, Minister, are lacking. I am sorry to see that you do not want to use that instrument. Unfortunately, in the last few weeks and months, I have all too often found that you have: "Listen to my words, but do not look at my actions." I recall very well that you have quite quickly withdrawn your tail in this matter, which is correct, and has opposed the Parent-Subsidiary Directive. I also note that you are pulling the teeth out of the caiman tax. However, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is a pity that you have not yet taken up the opportunity to rip off all payments between Belgium and Luxembourg and to find out where the abuses and fraud mechanisms are located. Mr Minister, I regret to say that you do not want to apply the law on the basis of the argument put forward by the Luxembourgers themselves. I no longer believe that you are a minister who wants to tackle fraud and evasion in a voluntaristic manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u13	Are there any fellow Members who wish to speak? Everyone has the right to speak in an interplay. If not, I will give the floor to you, Minister, to respond to these serious accusations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u14	Mr President, these are serious accusations which, of course, were quite predictable in view of the party to which Mr Van der Maelen belongs. I can only conclude that the way he proposes a whole series of things is rather selective and random. He is completely ignorant of a number of measures that we are indeed taking in the fight against tax fraud. That is not mentioned in the whole list of stories I have just heard. For me, this is selective to face reality. Mr van der Maelen, I reject your accusations with equal or even greater force. They are based on a fragmentary interpretation and on a very superficial reading of what is happening from the cabinet and the actions we are taking. Of course, given your record, I would like to give you the freedom you take to spread certain qualifications. I put it down next to me because I know perfectly well that it does not matter and that they are inspired only by political opposition but not by substantive justification. As far as this specific case is concerned, there is no question of withdrawing. It takes account of the circumstances that arise, with respect for the law. Mr Van der Maelen, given your clearly extensive knowledge of the law, you will also know that the Peer Review Group is expected to make a thorough assessment of what is ahead. That is exactly what this Peer Review Group is doing, on the basis of the arguments put forward by the Luxembourg Government. I'm not going to say anything else about that either. I will not make a single statement on whether these arguments are working or not. I only know from the teams around that Peer Review Group that, if it turns out a priori that these arguments make no sense, an additional investigation will not be started. Just the fact that the Peer Review Group is launching an additional investigation is an important indication of the fact that, contrary to what you cannot believe at all or cannot count on your world of life, the Luxembourg Government would come to different insights or take other actions. This is supported by the concrete actions of the Peer Review Group. For the rest, we will await the Luxembourg Government's actions towards the European Commission on possible discrimination under the European Treaties. I believe that it is an essential part of good management to take into account the Peer Review Group and the European treaties in force in the event of any decision being taken in the light of these circumstances. Mr Van der Maelen, on the other hand, would like to jump around like a cowboy and take all kinds of measures which may then have to be seen later that there has been a little too fast, a little too bold or a little too fast in this matter. So far, Mr President, my reply to Mr Van der Maelen's comments on the situation with Luxembourg. I take note of his personal allegations, but I reject them just as radically. Moreover, as far as I am concerned, I consider them to be out of the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u15	Mr Minister, I am obliged to read out the legal text: "Or during the full taxable period"........................................................................................................................................................ Moreover, it was Luxembourg's second assessment. This is done in two stages, after the second assessment. I can get you the documents. I will continue with my quote: "After an in-depth assessment of the extent to which the OECD standard has been applied in this State in terms of exchange of information, it has been classified as a State which does not apply this standard effectively or substantially.' Is there anyone in this room who, after LuxLeaks, still believes that Luxembourg is a loyal partner who fulfils its international obligations in terms of transparency and exchange of information? Minister, I really urge you to return to your interpretation of 16 December 2014. That was the right interpretation. Article 307 (1) (a) shall apply to a country which is considered non-compliant by the World Forum. Minister, this is a law approved by a government of which my party was not a member. This is a law that has been widely approved in this House. There is agreement that this is a particularly useful tool for identifying, through these capital movements, the structures which may be the smell of fraud or avoidance. Although you said on 16 December that you would apply that law, you turned your cart, Minister, from the moment you knew it was about Luxembourg. I'm sorry, the law won't allow that. You must apply the law. I have tabled a motion to the President and I call on my fellow Members, especially those of the majority, not to go over it with a simple motion as is usually the case. Any Member of Parliament who respects himself must tell the Minister that the law is clear, that he himself has confirmed that interpretation and that he must therefore implement the law. Those who do not do so are those who only confess with their mouths that after all the scandals of LuxLeaks and SwissLeaks, among other things, we should do something about fraud, while, when it comes to using a simple instrument that can be particularly efficient, we should not give it at home. This majority does not give at home either. I've already established that this minister doesn't give at home. However, I am counting on my fellow Members from the majority to say: 'Not with us'. We expect our Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State for Fiscal Fraud to use the tools we have to combat fraud and prevent evasion and not hide behind the Luxembourg state's procedural stances. Minister, it is your constitutional duty to apply the law and it is your social duty to meet the expectations of most of the citizens, namely that politics is trying to limit all the evasion and fraud mechanisms set up by large consultancy firms and used by multinationals. You're an accessory to the perpetuation of these kinds of constructions. Minister, I would ask you to return to your interpretation of 16 December 2014. Then there will be no further rooster to crow. However, I do not understand why you have come back to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u16	The President: At the end of this discussion, the following motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Dirk Van der Maelen and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Dirk Van der Maelen and the answer of the Minister of Finance, - In view of the fact that circular No. Ci.RH.421/607.890 (AFZ 13/2010) of 30 November 2010 on peer reviews carried out by the World Forum states that an additional circular will be published as soon as the States that have not applied the international standard have been identified effectively and substantially; - Having regard to the conclusions of the World Forum of 21 and 22 November 2013 in Jakarta, Indonesia and the finding that Luxembourg, Seychelles, the British Virgins and Cyprus are assessed as non-compliant; - In view of the Minister's reply to question n° 617 raised on 16 December 2014, in which the Minister confirms that it is now possible to identify those States which do not apply the international standard on transparency and exchange of information effectively and substantially, and states: "I have therefore instructed my administration to publish this supplement.'; - having regard to the fact that it is important that the companies concerned are informed in good time and are able to make the necessary preparations to comply with the declaration obligation, Invites the Minister of Finance to publish an administrative letter within 30 days following the circular No. Ci.RH.421/607.890 (AFZ 13/2010) of 30 November 2010 on the reporting obligation of payments to tax havens and this supplement lists those States which do not effectively and substantially apply the international standard on transparency and exchange of information." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Dirk Van der Maelen and reads as follows: The Chamber, ayant entendu l.o.interpellation de M. Dirk Van der Maelen and the Minister of Finance's response, - Considering that Circular No. Ci.RH.421/607.890 (AAF 13/2010) of 30 November 2010 indicates, with regard to the "peer reviews" carried out by the World Forum, that a supplementary circular will be issued as soon as States that have not applied the international standard in an effective and substantial manner have been identified; - Taking into account the conclusions of the World Forum following the meeting of 21 and 22 November 2013 in Jakarta, Indonesia, and the finding that Luxembourg, Seychelles, the British Virgin Islands and Cyprus are not in conformity; - In view of the answer to question No. 617 of 16 December 2014, by which the Minister confirms that it is currently possible to identify States that do not effectively and substantially apply international standards on transparency and exchange of information, and declares that he has instructed his administration to publish this update; - since it is important that the companies concerned be notified in time and be able to take the necessary steps to prepare themselves to comply with the reporting obligation, Request the Minister of Finance to issue within 30 days an administrative circular in follow-up to Circular No. RH.421/607.890 (AAF 13/2010) of 30 November 2010 concerning the obligation to report payments to tax havens, this supplementary circular establishing the list of States not effectively and substantially applying international standards on transparency and exchange of information." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Roel Deseyn and Robert Van de Velde. A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Roel Deseyn et Robert Van de Velde. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u17	Question No 2864 by Mr Guy Mathot is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u18	Mr Minister, I would like to ask you about the meeting of the European Finance Ministers in Brussels on Monday 8 March. This meeting provided an opportunity to discuss the extension of the assistance plan for Greece. It seems that many of your colleagues are urging Yanis Varoufakis to act quickly and well. A letter detailing the seven reforms that the Greek government is about to undertake was sent to the President of the Eurogroup last week. Nevertheless, many of your European colleagues believe that these reforms are insufficient. You yourself said at this meeting that the seven measures presented by Athens were too small and too vague. Following these reactions, the Greek Government would appear ready to enrich its list of new reforms in order to satisfy its partners in the Eurogroup. Mr Minister, I have already had the opportunity to tell you, allow me to doubt the method used by the members of the Eurogroup. The Greek situation has no secret for anyone - the unemployment rate is close to 28% - the state is in lack of liquidity while it has to honour several large repayments. Despite this reality, the European Finance Ministers decree that no advance on EUR 7.2 billion will be granted until the promised reforms are implemented. Even more serious, in recent months, many have called into question the work of the troika in Greece over the past five years. Mr Juncker has referred on various occasions to the recasting of the Convention by referring to a more democratic system. Despite this and against the will of the Greek government, the members of the Eurogroup decided to send again to the field a mission of experts from the European institutions in order to assess the situation on the ground. Minister, can you explain why, in your view, the seven reforms put forward by the Greek government are not satisfactory? What additional measures should be added in order to unblock the situation? Do you not fear that, in view of the demands of the European Finance Ministers, Greece will end up slamming the door and getting out of the Eurogroup - which in itself, we agree, would be a disaster?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u19	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, the seven reforms proposed by the Greek Finance Minister Yanis Varoufakis, in his letter of 5 March, are part of the list of reforms considered by the Eurogroup of 24 February as a valid starting point for the continuation of negotiations with Greece. In general, the proposals for some reforms are really not bad, such as the operationalisation of the Tax Council, the improvement of budget preparation, the abolition of bureaucracy and better tax collection. However, there is still a need for further elaboration of these reforms in much more detail. Only when these measures are described in detail can their acceptability be considered. These technical details can only be developed in consultation with the three well-known institutions. Technical discussions on the subject began on 11 March, about a week ago. In addition to these seven reforms, Greece still has to carry out many other reforms, which are also part of the ongoing programme, such as the continuation of privatisations, the reform and restructuring of public services, the law on the execution of mortgages and insolvency. Such reforms are, of course, much more difficult to implement and will not be popular at all. However, Greece will have to be prepared to implement them so that the fifth assessment can be concluded in a positive manner and so that the last remaining instalment can be paid. The Eurogroup asks Greece to respect the rules of the game. Other Member States have also undertaken reform programmes for which they have had to make painful decisions in relation to their population. All these countries have successfully completed this programme and the reforms undertaken have helped to boost growth, increase competitiveness and increase employment. To allow Greece to depart from these rules would be unjustifiable vis-à-vis the other countries mentioned above. The theory that the other euro area Member States are not in solidarity with Greece really does not stand the way, especially when we consider the huge sums made available to Greece in previous years. A breach of these rules would also mean that Greece does not take into account other euro area citizens who have made their money available to Greece.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answers. As you said yourself, it is paradoxical that the seven reforms of the Greek minister's letter were among the reforms planned under the plan. It is therefore surprising that the reactions are so harsh. Although they are not the only ones, this was a first approach. We've already had an opportunity to discuss it. They have homework but also rights. You also have to give them time. Currently, a draft law against the humanitarian crisis provides for the supply of electricity to the poorest households and the distribution of food vouchers. I think there's something to worry about, given the debates that this is taking place. But we will certainly have an opportunity to discuss it in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u21	Mr Minister, Article 66 of the Programme Act of 22 June 2012 sets out a separate attack on provisions in the form of supplementary individual pension commitments for the benefit of employees and managers referred to in Article 30 of the Income Tax Code. That special assessment shall be based on the total amount of provisions for internal pensions and shall refer to the last financial year before 1 January 2012. That particular tax was actually introduced to compensate for the non-payment of the insurance tax of 4,4%. It now appears in practice that deductions from the provisions of the existing pension provision do not affect the application of the separate assessment. The special attack is also located on facilities that were taken back after 1 January 2012. Withdrawals or write-offs are not made to come out of the special valuation, but because banks demand this in order to obtain credit in a loss situation. Mr Minister, do you share my view that it is against the spirit of the law that those who withdraw the provision should, because they think that they cannot maintain the obligation to pay that tax because of the current difficult economic circumstances, when they will never be able to benefit from any advantage, such as the exemption of 4,4% premium tax? If so, what measures will you take to bring the practice into line with the spirit of the law?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u22	Mrs Pas, the measure you are talking about is from the previous government and was an alternative to the envisaged introduction of an obligation to externalise the existing provisions that are referred to. Such compulsory externalisation is provided only for supplementary pensions which would subsequently be formed. The introduction of the individual tax of 1.75% on the provisions, together with the exemption from the premium tax of 4.4 %, should be seen as an incentive to externalise existing internal pension provisions as soon as possible. Where the management of the amounts reserved for supplementary pensions outside the company is carried out by a specialised institution, it shall be ensured that those amounts are used as best as possible for the original purpose. I note that the transfer of the existing internal pension provisions is not legally compulsory.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I cannot get the impression that it was never the intention of the legislator that those who take back those provisions from the measure to which you refer should pay the tax, when they will never be able to benefit from any advantage. You have not answered the question whether you want to amend the law in the spirit of the law. To date, these deductions are taxed equally well in practice, whereas in that case they cannot benefit from the premium on the other side. So I'm still a little hungry.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u24	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 2923 by Mr Vanvelthoven and 2950 by Mrs Smaers have been postponed. I now give the floor to Mrs Fonck because she is still active in other committees.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President, but I can't believe it. I don't come to this commission very often, but when we come, we get a great gift. I didn't even ask, but that's it. Thank you very much and thank you to the colleagues who, somewhere, are being blurred, I realize that. It's on revenge, when you come to another commission, I'll put you ahead of me. Not every day, but good. A right to fire another time in another commission. It's always good to have a good shot in your pocket; in politics, it's good. Minister, we don't know each other well and you probably don't know that it's been several years since I've been fighting about tobacco public health issues on various fronts. However, in terms of public health strategy, the issue of tobacco prices is an extremely important issue since it has been shown that each increase – not the small incremental increases, but the levels of at least 10% increase in tobacco prices – leads to a 4% decrease in consumption. I do not teach you the ravages of tobacco; these are 20,000 premature deaths a year accompanied by suffering and disease. Health-prevention actors are rightly asking once again for a sharp rise in tobacco prices and consider that the price increase decided by the tobacco sector for 2015 is a missed opportunity for the government that could have increased the excise duty itself and thus not only ensure a subsequent increase in the price of the package, but also benefit from the full price increase. Now, let us recognize that, compared to the increase of 30 cents, 10 cents will be returned to the state's coffers and 20 cents will benefit cigar makers directly. You multiply this by the number of sales per year and it represents an additional benefit for the industrialists – cigar makers who are not already on straw – of 80 million euros. Do you intend to limit yourself to an increase of one hundred million in 2015, then seventy-five million excises in the next three years? There will soon be a budgetary adjustment, so my question is timely: would it not be an opportunity to put in place a strategy that combines both the excise component and, above all, a public health and tobacco reduction strategy? And finally, do you find it ethical – I would like to ask you the question as directly – that an increase in the price of tobacco will ultimately allow the sector to make a good additional profit, even though it would have been logical for it to come back to the state's coffers? I would not dare to give you the figures, but you will know the cost of one in three tobacco cancers and thousands of patients with severe cardiovascular disease due to tobacco.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the increase in budgetary revenue resulting from the acquis on manufactured tobacco, I am obliged to implement – which I will gladly do – the decision taken by the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2014 which provides for an increase of EUR 100 million in 2015 and EUR 75 million per year until 2018. On the other hand, there has not yet been any consultation. But I do not rule out the possibility of future consultation. In addition, the structure of excise duties on manufactured tobacco includes an excise duty known as ad valorem, i.e. calculated on the retail selling price. This means that any increase in retail prices decided by economic operators also affects tax revenues.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u27	In terms of excise duties on tobacco, there are indeed various ad valorem excise duties, specific excise duties, etc. In my view, in this respect, more adjustments to these excise duties would really have to be made so that the increases – and I will return to the question – in tobacco prices do not benefit cigar makers, as is the case in 2015 with the €80 million bonus granted to them, but are paid into state funds so that this money can be partially reinjected directly into health and tobacco policies. On the other hand, I would like to appeal to the government as a whole, and therefore to you as Minister of Finance, to adopt a much more proactive policy on tobacco control. It does not pass – it is true – only through price, but price is an element that has been clearly demonstrated in terms of efficiency. In view of the stakes that this represents, beyond the budgetary aspects, a proactive policy in this area is absolutely ethically indispensable. Indeed, the tobacco strategy is evil, and I believe that the policy in Belgium is still insufficiently proactive. If you wanted to be given small ideas in the context of the budget adjustment, here is one that will cost you nothing, that will bring back and that, moreover, is good for citizens and to respond to public health issues. Thank you very much, Minister; thank you again, Mr President, for your welcome to this committee and thank you to each of the colleagues, I do not forget my promise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u28	Mr President, it is good to consider ethics and sustainability. Minister, we do not have to deal daily with the operational functioning of public enterprises and banks in which the State is the main shareholder, but the fact that an important consortium of NGOs has given Belfius a low score for tax avoidance strategies, and in terms of human rights and transparency, gives us an uncomfortable feeling. We cannot say that we have nothing to do with this. Without wishing to interfere too much with the operational operation, I would like to present some concerns to you. Will you enter into dialogue with the people of Belfius on this matter? I do not think we can ignore this signal. We also expect other public companies to apply high standards of corporate governance. Mr Minister, I would like to have your view on the role of Belfius as an example. Will you enter into dialogue and provide guidance on this issue? Will you investigate how these findings have been achieved and how we can remedy the problem in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u29	Mr President, Mr Minister, the website scandesbanks.be is a forum for organizations interested in contributing to the improvement of the behaviour of financial institutions, particularly in terms of ethics and the consideration of sustainable development issues – which I personally find very well. This site has just published a study analysing the performance of the main banks active in our country with regard to their investment policies in areas such as armaments, taxation, corruption, bonuses, transparency, climate change, nature, human rights and labour law. In this ranking, it is worth noting the last place held by Belfius, the bank with 100 % public capital, the results of which are systematically considered "low" to "very low". This poor score would be due in particular to investments made in companies with a bad reputation in terms of climate or in firms that do not respect human dignity. Furthermore, the authors found that controversial arms producers are not formally excluded from a bank's investment portfolio. The results of this analysis can only raise questions about the investment policy of an institution owned by a state like ours. Even if you don't have day-to-day management, you have a global responsibility to guide this bank's choices. Minister, have you been aware of the analysis carried out by scandesbanks.be? What opinion do you have on this one? Do you share his conclusions? Have you asked the bank about this, either directly or via the directors representing the Belgian State? What are Belfius' responses to this study? What short- and medium-term arrangements will be put in place within the bank to ensure a better, if possible, perfect ethic?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u30	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, Mr Deseyn, I have also taken note of the results of the comparative study to which you both refer, and in particular of the results achieved by Belfius, which can indeed give some thought. However, I do not think that the methodology used by what is called the fair banker, as a result of this study, takes into account all the relevant elements. I'll go over some of them. Belfius invests in the bank exclusively in the Belgian economy. Belfius therefore does not directly finance companies such as Gazprom. Within the Belgian economy, Belfius' production is mainly concentrated on households, SMEs, the public sector and, to a lesser extent, large enterprises. The reserves of Belfius Insurance are managed on the basis of the Portfolio 21 principle. Certain criteria are taken into account. They are monitored and audited by an independent party, Viseo. The criteria are linked to human rights in working conditions and serious environmental damage. I would also like to stress that, in the strict sense of the word, Belfius is not really a public company but a public limited company whose shares are held by the Federal Participation and Investment Company in its own name on behalf of the Belgian State. At the time of the acquisition of the bank, the Chairman of the Governing Council was given a sevenfold mandate: Firstly, reduce the credit risk of the bank on the Dexia group. Secondly, take the necessary measures to strengthen the bank's financial soundness and liquidity position without recourse to an increase in capital. Thirdly, develop a strategic recovery plan for the Belfius group with the approval of the European Commission. Fourthly, to safeguard the bank's commercial franchise and to increase its profitability. Fifth, continue to support the financing of the Belgian economy and the public sector. Sixth, to ensure that the Belgian State can recover its investment in Belfius in the long term. Seventhly and finally, develop a strategy for sustainable development and monitor its proper implementation. The Chairman of the Governing Council and the Chairman of the Management Committee of Belfius shall report at regular intervals on the evolution of each of these criteria to FPIM and also to the Minister. In addition, Belfius as a credit institution and systemically relevant financial institution is controlled by the National Bank of Belgium as well as by the European Central Bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u31	Minister, I welcome the concern and attention given to the issues raised in the report and the fact that there will be a strategy for sustainable development which will be discussed with the FPIM. I do not want to examine the argument in detail, but I do think it is important that Belfius communicates about it when such a report is published, and that assertiveness is also shown to dot the tips. I believe that Belfius also has credentials on that point to say how they are dealing with it. In this sense, it is important that there should be an ad brake on the follow-up. This can only improve transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u32	Mr Minister, thank you for reminding you of the specifications of the persons who, on behalf of the Belgian State, manage the public limited company Belfius. For our part, we have always regretted that this role as an example of a public bank is not further developed in the context of these missions. I am not saying that the malfunctions are important in Belfius from this point of view, but it seemed appropriate to us that one of the four large Belgian banks shows a different path. I note that you are questioning the methodology and the outcome of this external analysis. Maybe I use words that are too loud using the words "question" but in any case, you're wondering about it. I could suggest that, through you, there is a meeting between these associations and the management of Belfius to clarify what needs to be clarified, to see what is a bad analysis, a poor knowledge of the file or an erroneous internal assessment of its political choices. If we can add explicit rules and transparency on the part of Belfius towards stakeholders and citizens, I think that we will do a useful job and that Belfius will be able to stand out. There is a citizen expectation for this type of bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u33	Mr. President, Minister, in recent years, more and more companies, including banks, have been offering their customers contactless payment, which uses NFC (Near Field Communication) technology. This technology allows, via smart card or mobile phones, to pay for purchases capped at 20 euros without having to introduce a pin code. This method of payment has various advantages for both traders and customers, such as a reduction in transaction time or a reduction in cash payments. More and more companies are taking the lead in the use of this technology. For example, Google recently purchased Softcard, a payment platform that uses this technology. In September 2014, Apple announced the launch in the United States of its "Apple Pay" mobile payment service. In France, Intel has opened a research and development centre to develop NFC solutions. In Belgium, too, the phenomenon is developing. Thus, after Colruyt or Visa, KBC bank recently announced the implementation of its contactless payment service in Belgium. Minister, in view of the increasing interest in this type of transaction, I would like to ask you the following questions. In order to effectively anticipate future developments related to this technology, it is necessary to establish a common system between banks, operators and manufacturers. What is the situation in Belgium? Do you have any information on the number of companies offering this type of payment in Belgium and the number of terminals that can accommodate it in traders? Several studies have shown the existence of a range of potential dangers associated with the use of this technology, including the easy availability of credit card data using a USB stick or the circumvention of the €20 ceiling via payment in a foreign currency. What is the situation with regard to monitoring this type of fraud in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u34	Mr President, Mr Friart, in Belgium, there are already different possibilities for making contactless payments and not all are based on NFC technology. The QR Code is also used. These two technologies make it possible to make contactless payments, the first by card or smartphone, the second by smartphone only. Banks and card payment schemes are preparing for the use of this technology and for further development into other more advanced technologies, such as bluetooth. On May 15, 2014, Bancontact/Mister Cash launched its smartphone app to make payments based on a QR code not only from person to person but also to terminals. A large chain of Belgian supermarkets should very soon accept this type of payment by smartphone. Next to this, banks operating in Belgium will soon start issuing contactless cards. A large bank should also start very soon. Others are expected to follow in the near future. For large national and international card payment schemes, the changes related to the deployment of the technology allowing contactless payments are at the level of payment terminals and not at the level of the interfaces and central processing systems for transactions which remain the same as those used for the standard contact payment. For these interfaces and systems, interconnections between banks, operators and manufacturers allowing card payments to function properly already exist. There is therefore no need for a common system specific to contactless payments. Unfortunately, the National Bank does not have figures on the number of companies offering this type of payment in Belgium. However, it appears that all new terminals installed in Belgium are compatible with NFC (near field communication) technology. The replacement of existing terminals takes place gradually, at a pace that depends on the choice of traders to replace their old terminals. The replacement of all terminals with contactless terminals should be completed by the end of 2019 at the latest. The National Bank exercises the role of prudential supervisor on payment service providers and supervises payment systems in accordance with national and international legislation in this regard. In this context, the National Bank pays particular attention to the security of payment services whose contactless payments are an important aspect. For the time being, the use of contactless payments in Belgium remains very limited and does not appear in the statistics collected by the National Bank from the main card payment players. To date, no specific cases of fraud related to this type of payment have been brought to his attention in Belgium. With regard to payment limits, they are set by card issuers and payment card schemes on the basis of the risk criteria they determine. It is therefore their responsibility to take the necessary steps to avoid circumvention. However, the issue of foreign currency payments is not specific to non-contact payments, since they can also be made by other types of payments which are also subject to limits.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u35	Thank you for taking a look around the question. Indeed, there are other means of non-contact payment. It would be interesting to inform consumers, as it is certainly a type of payment that will develop in the coming years. I am pleased to know that the National Bank is concerned about this issue, which is likely to lead to fraud in the future, as is everything related to information technology.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u36	Mr Minister, the record is tragic: according to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), more than a billion women and men are chronically undernourished. In other words, almost one in six people suffers daily from hunger. Since the 2000s, speculation on the price evolution of agricultural raw materials has intensified – there can be added speculation on energy products – even changing the economic paradigm according to which prices are determined by the law of supply and demand, since a number of speculators buy and store millions of bushels of cereals, maize, etc. Olivier De Schutter, the UN Special Rapporteur on the right to food, estimates that almost 30% of the price increase is due to speculation. He agrees with the FAO's earlier analysis, as well as with a report by the US Senate, which had been issued one year after the development of the subprime crisis and which had shown that a number of hedge funds, to restore their financial health, had left the subprime market massively to speculate on raw materials, especially cereals. All this artificially raises food prices and causes sudden variations. This price volatility again leads to more speculation, creating a bubble or vicious circle of price instability. Now, the scale of speculation is such that it has led to a reversal of roles and it is the financial markets that determine food prices, disconnecting them from any link with the real economy. On average, the poorest people spend two thirds of their income on food and are therefore the first victims of this speculation. In the last parliamentary term, the Finance Committee has done a great deal of work on this issue. This is an opportunity for me to pay tribute to the late Patrick Moriau, who had invested a great deal in the matter. Hearings were held and texts were processed. Finally, significant progress had been made in the adoption of the Banking Reform Act, notably through the establishment of position limits. FSMA has been assigned a mandate to set limits to regulatory positions for financial instruments with an underlying value of food. At home, the daily newspaper Le Soir, published on March 10, 2015, revealed that several Belgian banks continued to engage in food speculation through hedge funds. While recent developments in some banking institutions should be welcomed, it must be noted that the rest of the banking sector does not change. On the contrary, some hedge funds have even increased their involvement in this sector. Therefore, Minister, the issue is not new and deserves attention. In view of the text voted a few months ago, have you ever had any contact with FSMA on this subject? What progress has the FSMA already made in enforcing the law passed under the previous legislature? Do you know which banks in Belgium continue to speculate on hunger?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u37	Mr President, I very much share Mr Laaouej's introduction and questions. We worked together in the previous legislature on this important topic. Various NGOs, including OXFAM, regularly carry out studies on the participation of banking institutions in practices of speculation on food raw materials which, at the same time, make food less financially accessible for the populations concerned, can lead to ruin or to serious problems for producers, not to mention the impact on the biodiversity of monocultures that this speculation can encourage. In short, this speculation on food raw materials must be combated. That's our conviction! A fortiori after the hearings in this Finance Committee. A recent study has been republished by OXFAM France. A similar study was announced in Belgium for Belgian establishments in June. At the time, it was not possible to vote on a bill that was quite ambitious. Nevertheless, there has been a catch-up in an article or other of a law containing various provisions which Mr Laaouej has just recalled. I think this is an opportunity to take stock of how this new legislation works, how the FSMA has taken up its new mission and, if necessary, what legislative measures should be taken to complete the scheme and make it most effective. I would be pleased to hear from you, Minister, on the status and implementation of this new legislation. Has the FSMA seized specific files as part of its new competencies? Is there any particular difficulty in fulfilling this new task entrusted to her? Are legislative developments necessary in order to combat this kind of speculation that is difficult to bear?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u38	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, Mr Laaouej, in order to avoid any confusion, allow me to recall that the examples cited in the article of the newspaper Le Soir of 10 March 2015 do not relate to positions taken by Belgian banks for their own account but to investment products proposed by certain banks. As for the problem of speculation on food products, several measures have already been taken by the legislator. First, the new Article 25, § 6 of the Act of 2 August 2002 introduced an administrative ban on the manipulation of food prices through transactions in financial markets. This represents a significant step forward in the fight against behaviour that destabilizes food markets. Second, the new Article 29a of the above-mentioned Law allows the FSMA to determine the rules on limits to positions in financial instruments, the underlying of which is food traded on a regulated market or an MTF, which a person is authorised to hold; and to fix derogations from those rules, in particular where the positions in question have been established for the purpose of coverage. In determining the limits and exceptions to the positions, the FSMA will nevertheless take account of developments at European level and in particular future directives implementing the MiFID 2 Directive. This is all the more necessary since there is no regulated market or MTF in Belgium on which food is traded. It is therefore appropriate to draw on international experience to set the appropriate new framework of limits and the derogations thereto in order to achieve the objective, without penalising Belgian companies in the context of a natural process of managing their risks. On 19 December 2014, the European security market authority (ESMA) published a Consultation Paper on a set of technical rules to implement the MiFID 2 Directive, in particular with regard to the underlying financial instrument position limits consisting of raw materials. The results of this consultation, recently published, will be used by ESMA to finalize the technical rules by mid-2015, after which they will be adapted by the European Commission. I am referring to Article 57 of the MiFID 2 Directive. FSMA participates in ESMA's work to closely monitor developments and take the necessary initiatives as soon as the texts are stabilized. I would also point out that the FSMA has taken other initiatives without waiting for the outcome of the European work. On 20 June 2011, FSMA called on the financial sector not to market structured products that are considered to be particularly complex to retail investors, such as products with underlying food-type raw materials. FSMA also adopted a regulation in April 2014 concerning the prohibition of the marketing in Belgium of certain financial products. This regulation prohibits, among other things, the marketing to retail customers of financial products that invest, either in alternative funds whose return depends on non-conventional assets, or in non-conventional assets directly. Raw materials are considered non-conventional assets. In this case, the FSMA obviously has to comply with the European regulatory framework, which explains for example that the private marketing of shares of collective investment undertakings is treated separately.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u39	Minister, I thank you for this very detailed answer, which recalls the importance of distinguishing the positions banks take themselves from the financial products they market. It is important to make the distinction, perhaps my question did not do it enough. We simply wanted to know whether, in one way or another, the Autorité des services et marchés financiers (FSMA) on the basis of the existing law and the regulations it has adopted, has already been required to intervene to remind a number of banks of order, whether they are their own positions or products that they market. The FSMA is not waiting for Europe to take a number of initiatives, I understand that. At the same time, in the light of what has been written in the press, it would have been useful to know whether, on the side of the cabinet or the minister himself, there was a pro-active approach to the FSMA asking them to step up their vigilance with regard to this problem, so that we could set an example and help to clean up financial markets, whether they are markets in which banks intervene themselves or markets in which a number of financial products are traded. Perhaps we could, Mr President, hear the FSMA, not necessarily on this subject, but to see, on a number of points of interest to parliamentarians, how it implements the new powers it is entrusted with. It is true that since Twin Peaks, the distribution of roles between FSMA and the National Bank has changed significantly. It would be nice if we could discuss it with them. It goes without saying that, as far as I am concerned, the problem of foodstuffs will certainly be one of the points on which I will ask them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answer. The main issue was the efficiency of the new legislation to combat speculation in food commodities. I have the impression that you have told us a lot of things, but few specific elements about it. Perhaps it is because the legislation does not work, for reasons to be determined. I will ask you in writing about this. At the time, we could be glad that there was a first framework in this area, but we fear a lack of ambition. By hearing all the justifications which are Europe or which are legitimate positions of coverage, I wonder about the real willingness to move forward on the subject. However, as has been pointed out in the hearings we conducted at the time, we must act urgently. This is a fundamental humanitarian issue! So I think we'll have to talk about it again. I will ask you the question more precisely in writing, so that we can have new and tangible data.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u41	Question No 2995 by Mrs Schepmans is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u42	Minister, my question concerns the situation of contract agents after the 3rd shift, i.e. their transfer to other workstations. As a result of the major restructuring of the FPS Finances, many contract agents will be forced to manage a difficult situation on a daily basis, which is inherent in the change of position that they have sometimes held for more than ten years. As you told me in your answer to my previous question on the same subject, some social measures are provided for contract workers to make the possible distance more bearable in terms of the balance between private and professional life. The aim would be to promote telework, satellite office work, to offer the possibility for some to apply for a temporary transfer, to obtain an additional period of time, to change an entity, or to benefit, following the departure of certain retired agents, from a guarantee to retain a position in the FPS Finance. Therefore, Minister, can you clarify the procedure and the criteria that could be taken into account in order to make these changes less painful? I am thinking above all of couples, who will be away from their homes. It is difficult for partners to cope with this change because of their family responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u43	Mr. Gustin, since September 2013, all FPS Finance employees have been authorized to carry out telework and satellite office work. The limitation on the combination of these two options has even been removed. There are indeed rules that vary depending on whether they are the general administration or the management department. Teleworking and satellite office work are not always compatible with the functions performed. In addition to this, the new variable schedule offers many possibilities for scheduling working time and thus allows agents to manage their professional and private lives in a more balanced way. With reference to tipping 3, a last round of postulation corrigenda was organised. Both contract and statutory employees were able to participate. During this postulation round, the vacant places that remained available after the changeover were made available at the same time as the places that freed up with the pension, departures, promotions, internal mobility and transfers. The results of the changeover do not mean that the future of each employee is definitely fixed for the rest of his career. The FPS Finances has a huge variety of tasks and a large geographical extension. Thanks to internal mobility, there will still be the possibility of applying for one function in another entity, another service or another administrative residence in the future. The criteria that determine whether or not to participate depend on the function and function requirements associated with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u44	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answer. Since my previous question a few months ago, I have seen an improvement. Minister, I would ask you to keep an eye on this situation, which could be detrimental to some officers. I'll eventually come back to you in a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u45	Minister, I am coming back to you this afternoon with regard to this mistake which has been echoed in the press. It concerns real estate prepayments calculated on the basis of cadastral income. This appears to be an error in the calculation of the indexation coefficient for cadastral income. This one is smaller than the one provided for by law. It would appear that the tax refers to price indices of 1988 and 1989 different from the official indices published by the SPF Economy. The tax administration uses a price average of 72, while the FPS Economy price indices give an average of 71.93. This means that each year the average price indices of the previous year are divided by an average of the 1988 and 1989 indices greater than what is provided for by law. The coefficient is therefore smaller than what is legally provided for. It appears that this situation results in an annual financial loss of EUR 4.6 million for the Regions, the provinces and the municipalities. The Echo, which reveals these figures, speaks of a loss of earnings which, since the introduction of the indexation of cadastral income in 1991, would exceed EUR 100 million. To make it clearer, minister, I have the following questions for you. What is the status of the situation? Is the calculation error mentioned in the press real? Can you give us more specific information on the subject? Are the figures mentioned verifiable? If so, are they correct? Have you already agreed on the matter with the federated authorities? If so, what came out of the discussions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u46	Mr Friart, your complex question requires a complex answer. The indexing coefficients are in principle determined by dividing the average of the price indices for the year preceding the income year by the average of the price indices for the year 1998. The average price indices for 1988 are set at 70.90. This is the 2004 base. This average differs from the figure that the SPF Economy published on its website. The difference is explained by the different conversion coefficients used to convert the average indices, base 1981, to an average index, base 1988. In view of the provisions of Article 8 § 2 of the Law of 7 September 1988 on the reform of income tax and amendments to taxes treated as stamps, this conversion coefficient for the application of the Income Tax Code was calculated arithmetically, taking into account only the average index for 1988. This gives a conversion coefficient of 1,7399. In this case, the ratio between the 1988 average index, i.e. the 1988 base equals 100 and the 1988 average index, the 1981 base equals 100, i.e. 100 divided by 135 or 0.7399. However, for reasons not specified in detail, the method used by Economic Affairs takes into account the average index for the years 1988 and 1990, resulting in a conversion coefficient of 0.7392. This information was also included in the explanatory memorandum prior to the programme law of 19 December 2014. The conversion of the coefficients 1988 to 1996 and 1996 to 2004 was carried out on the basis of the conversion coefficient fixed by the Economic Affairs. The same logic applies to the calculation of the coefficient referred to in Article 518 of CIR 92, for the indexation of cadastral income. My administration has, on each occasion, made clear the indices used during the reference years in the notice on the indexed amount published annually in the Belgian Moniteur. Therefore, I am convinced that until now, the FPS Finance administration has always correctly applied the indexing of the amounts. That is why I see no reason to organise a consultation on this matter with the federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u47	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. All of this seems to me to be very complex. I will therefore go to the House site later or tomorrow to review your answer. Anyway, I think we can trust you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u48	Mr President, Minister, I had originally tabled my question as a written question. When I saw that Mr Van Mechelen had tabled a similar oral question, I had them converted into an oral question. To commemorate the 200th anniversary of the Battle of Waterloo, the Royal Mint of Belgium has designed a new piece of 2 euros. In the media, we have heard that France did not really believe that this currency should be introduced. It would be a negative symbol for a fraction of the European population. France expressed its concern about this in a letter to the European Council. According to the French, the image of the Lion of Waterloo could provoke hostile reactions and eventually even undermine the eurozone. Slightly exaggerated, I think. The same media reports show that the Royal Mint of Belgium had already minted and packaged 180 000 coins. They were asked not to put these into circulation. If our country did not do so, the matter would still be under way and there would even be a round of voting with all the countries of the euro area. Minister, I would have liked to know if that message is true. Has there been an intervention from the European Commission? Is the FPS Finance spokesman's statement that this French wish will be met correct? What is the cost of already storing these 180 000 coins? If we have indeed decided not to put these coins into circulation, can the costs be recovered in one way or another? We are in a saving mode and it would be a shame if these costs were completely lost. I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u49	Mr President, Mrs Pas, to commemorate the 200th anniversary of the Battle of Waterloo, the Royal Mint of Belgium has indeed designed a 2 euro commemorative coin. Such 2 euro coins are a valid means of payment throughout the euro area. However, France considered that these coins represent a negative symbol for a fraction of the European population and opposed this Belgian commemorative coin at European level. After it became very clear that France had gathered enough votes within the European cenacles to effectively stop the issue of the currency, I decided not to allow the issue to continue. Within Europe, we can better spend our time and energy on other conversations and dossiers. Within the Belgian government, we consider the possibility to issue a 2.5 euro commemorative coin around the 200th anniversary of the Battle of Waterloo. Such a commemorative coin is only a valid means of payment in the issuing country, namely Belgium, but not throughout the euro area. There are plenty of examples of this in other countries within the euro area. France cannot oppose a €2.5 commemorative coin at European level. Some of the coins were indeed already minted and packed and this to be ready in time for the Waterloo 2015 event. The costs incurred are estimated at EUR 58 000. If the coins cannot or may not be issued, these coins must be destroyed. However, the costs can be recovered if another commemorative coin such as the indicated 2.5 euro commemorative coin is issued around the 200th anniversary of the Battle of Waterloo.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u50	Minister, I am disappointed because this is a symbolic discussion. The Flemings are often portrayed as narrow-minded and outdated. It's a scorching thing to do. If another state intervenes in this symbolic discussion, he is immediately right. I can only hope that the costs for a large piece will be recovered and that the associated commemorations in Waterloo, as has often happened in the past, will not become Napoleon Bonaparte's exaltation, but a commemoration of France's defeat, whatever it was. That's why France stood so on its back legs to put the Butte de Lion on a euro piece. It only shows what long toes they have. I am sorry that they are not taking more action against this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u51	Mr President, Minister, on 16 March, the press relayed the latest data from the Centrale des crédits to the individuals of the National Bank concerning credit repayments. The number of Belgians who find it difficult to repay their credits has increased. The number of persons with at least one outstanding defaulting contract increased on a monthly basis by 0.2% and on an annual basis by 2.4%. This now represents 352,270 people, an increase of more than 8,000 in one year. This increase relates to mortgages (+4.7%) and consumer credit (+2.4%). At the end of February 2015, the amount related to delays in repayment amounted to more than EUR 3 billion. However, this increase is accompanied by a year-on-year decrease in the number of people with an ongoing contract of -0.4%. Faced with this record number of delays in repayments, here are my questions. What are the means available to reduce the number of late repayments? Is the introduction of new means under consideration? Has the Centrale des appropriations aux particuliers made any proposals to reduce this figure? What are the trends for the coming months? Are there expected to be a decrease in the number of delays in credit repayments?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u52	Mr Friart, I have three answers. The first concerns the causes. Arrears of payment are to a very large extent the result of unexpected events in the privacy of those concerned, such as divorce, the death of a partner or family member, illness, unemployment. The second question concerns means. According to the most recent statistical report of the Centrale des Appropriations aux particuliers, "the cause of the increase in the number of arrears since the beginning of the crisis, at the end of 2008, is not due to a deterioration in the quality of the loans granted. The default rate for new loans granted from 2009 onwards is generally lower than for pre-crisis loans. This applies in particular to temperament and mortgage loans and to a lesser extent to credit openings. The payment difficulties currently faced by consumers also relate more to older credits than before. For the new instalment payment arrears that were recorded in 2014, 64.9% of the cases were between the conclusion of the contract and the non-payment in more than one year compared to 51.9% of the cases in 2008. In the case of mortgage loans, 73.5% of new defaults for 2014 are only more than two years after the credit was granted, compared to 59.2% in 2008. The same applies to the duration of a payment arrears incurred. It thus appears that payment difficulties for mortgage loans are more quickly regulated than in the case of other forms of credit. At the same time, it makes the impact of the crisis more visible. For arrears of payments that have been incurred since 2008, it takes more time to clear them than to clear previous defaults. This applies to all forms of credit. It seems, however, that this trend would tend to be gradually reversed. Consumers who incurred a payment backlog in 2013 are again able to regularize them faster than they did in recent years." End of the citation of the Centrale des crédits. A study by KU Leuven on the importance of consumer credit and mortgage credit to the Belgian economy also shows that consumer credit is pro-cyclical in nature. This means that it is not true that households contract more credit to offset a decrease in disposable income. Total consumer credit outstanding thus decreased in 2014 compared to 2013. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Consumer Credit Act, which already protects consumers to a large extent, has recently been amended. Additional measures have been introduced and will enter into force from 1 April 2015. Thus, it is stipulated in Article 7.77 of the Economic Law Code that no consumer credit can be granted any longer if the candidate customer is registered at the Centrale des crédits aux particuliers de la Banque nationale de Belgique for an irregularised payment arrears in respect of consumer credit of more than 1 000 euros. In the case of another non-regularised payment backlog, consumer credit could only be granted on specific grounds. In addition, since the beginning of 2013, there has been a zeroing obligation under which any indefinite or fixed-term appropriation of more than five years must always be linked to a zeroing period. A zeroing means that the lessee must regularly reset the balance of his or her credit opening to zero and therefore repay the unpaid payment before he or she can reapprove. To answer your third question about trends in the coming months, one can expect a limited increase due to the economic situation that remains uncertain.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u53	Minister, thank you. I understood you more easily than before. What is important to know is that, on the one hand, the problem seems to be well under control and, on the other hand, that this regulation takes place on 1 April and will allow even more limited appropriations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u54	Minister, I was questioned by a FPS Finance officer, who informed me that the activities organized by the friendly women in the FPS Finances would no longer be financially supported by the Welfare Department. It would seem that, since 2013, no more activities are funded, although the Wellness Service continues to receive a certain budget. Minister, can you confirm to me that no more friendly activities are supported by the Wellness Department? If so, can you give me the reasons that led to such a choice? Can you tell me what projects or services are now receiving funding from this service?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u55	Mr Crusnière, in fact, since 2013, no financial intervention has been allocated to friendly women. Well-being now engages in preventive activities against stress and burn-out and others that promote health or are intended to prevent absenteeism. These activities are open to all FPS Finance employees. Information sessions are also organized: "how to quit smoking", "prevent back pain", "favour happiness at work", "accompaniment to the end of a career", etc. He also takes care of sports activities, for example, during the midday break, and encourages agents to move, such as the Move Week. FPS Finance participates in the organization of the Interfederal Day of Diversity. In addition, a childcare centre is organized during Easter and summer holidays. The cost of influenza vaccines is also reimbursed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u56	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u57	Minister, according to the trade unions, the FPS Finance and a large part of public opinion, there is a great need for more tax controllers. The staff shortage has made tax controls unbalanced and inefficient, according to the press release. Due to the shortage of staff, some companies are regularly monitored and others never. In this way, of course, the government misses a lot of money. Minister, do you agree with this criticism or is it totally out of control? Are there projections for staffing in the coming years, both for the FPS Finance and for the FBI? It was also mentioned that there are a lot of problems with the data mining. Is that right? Can we do something about that? Why is the focus mainly on regional distribution rather than on pure risk? I mean, of course, the risk of not paying taxes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u58	Mrs Temmerman, first of all I would like to express my appreciation for having taken the trouble to be here, after heavy nightly parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u59	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u60	You stayed here?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u61	Did it do anything?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u62	Mr President, we have heard a number of things that have not yet been known.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u63	Yeah?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u64	Yes, including the 127 million euro compensation that will no longer be available.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u65	Nevertheless, I repeat my appreciation for your presence. Taking into account budgetary constraints, the staff plan of the FPS Finance shall be drawn up annually. In this context, each entity within the FPS is specifically identified as personnel needs. This appropriation is intended to cover the expenditure incurred in connection with the implementation of the budget of the European Union for the financial year 2020, in accordance with the Financial Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, and in accordance with the Financial Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, in accordance with the Financial Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council and with the Financial Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council and with the Financial Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council and with the Financial Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. In a second phase, the Management Committee of the FPS Finance determines, on the basis of the strategic needs and objectives, the final allocation of the human resources available. Staff numbers are thus determined and influenced by recruitment, as are falling staff budgets and natural outflow. In other words, these various factors create inevitable fluctuations in staff projections. The centralised selection of files to be checked or data mining is based on sound risk management and has a double objective, namely, on the one hand, optimising controls and, on the other hand, ensuring fair treatment for taxpayers. As the Court of Auditors recently pointed out in its report to the Federal Parliament on the organisation of control actions, particularly in the field of personal taxation, the centralised selection introduced by the administration since 2012 ensures, in principle, that taxpayers with the same risk profile have an equal chance of being selected for a control. Centralised selection is continuously improved in order to optimise tax controls. As far as the regional distribution you are referring to is concerned, I would stress that geographical location is not, in itself, a criterion affecting the risk profile. I should also like to refer to my answer to question No. 2705, which I gave to Mr Deseyn earlier. I would also like to tell you that it is also a fact that the control capacity is not always physically where the selected files are located, and that because of the nature of the selection method, based on risk profiles and not on geographical criteria. Therefore, since 2013, the mandatory audit assignments at regional management level have been awarded and work is carried out with temporary co-operation to address the deficiencies in control capacity within a management board. This avoids the possibility of allocating high risk dossiers and ensures an equal chance of control for citizens and businesses with the same risk profile.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u66	Minister, it seems that not everyone agrees on the latter, namely that there is equal treatment or an equal risk at the same risk profile. I am pleased that you say that the geographical distribution is not really a criterion and that the risk is rather the criterion. However, you did not reply to my first question. You have said in what way the reduction in staff is applied, who decides and who sits where, but you have not answered whether there is an effective deficit. After all, that is the question, both of the trade unions and of the FPS Finance. They say that they are currently short, that because of the savings this will in any case have an impact on their operation and that the State will miss out on a number of budgets. In principle, I am also in favour of data mining, if it is effective that those risk profiles are the same and if they run a similar risk of being controlled, but perhaps we should talk to the FPS about this again to see where those criticisms are. After all, it comes from the service itself, so it is useful to check whether this is the same. The most important criticism remains, of course, the lack of staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u67	Mr Gilkinet, this question has already been asked in plenary last week. Perhaps you need more information?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u68	Mr President, I have always considered that it is possible in committee, without the pressure of the plenary session and the media, to obtain more precise information. It's a case I'm passionate about. I actually wanted to take the opportunity to go a little further head-on with the minister. Here, few ears are witnesses!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u69	He did what you asked! We must congratulate him!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u70	Mr. President, that's what I did. If you heard it in plenary, I started with "bravo and thank you". I can do it again! Nevertheless, I will be careful to ensure that the decisions announced are followed up and that sufficient resources are put in place. This will not prevent me from continuing to be vigilant about what is being implemented by the minister and his administration to combat tax evasion. Mr Minister, I would like more information on how you are going to act on the HSBC file, now that you have announced that Belgium is a civil party. Have you appointed counsel for this file? Who is it? We know that different lawyers have already worked for the Belgian State. What service at the FPS level is it responsible for following up on the file? I think we need an effective interaction between the lawyer you're going to appoint or you've designated and the FPS Finances. Do you have specific conventional claims for HSBC? Will you rely on and seek redress for the tax loss caused by the fraud? Do you know the exact judicial schedule of the steps in this case? Is an agenda known? Do you join other states that have also filed a complaint against the bank? Finally, as I said in reply to the plenary session, HSBC is not the only case where Swiss banking institutions, in this case, have organised or seem to have organised – to be careful – large-scale frauds. I pointed at the UBS bank. Will your decision make a case? In this case, do you study with your administration the fact that you are also a civil party? I think this is an interesting question, Mr President. I hope that the minister will be able to give us good information in addition to those which he was kind enough to give us in plenary on Thursday.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u71	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Gilkinet, section 14 of the Judicial Code provides for a counterclaim and an incidental claim made by the defendant which tends to have a conviction imposed on the plaintiff. In the present case, since HSBC is not seeking any action against the Belgian State, there can be no reference to a counterclaim. On the other hand, the bank is subject to criminal investigation. It is in the context of this criminal case that the Belgian State will become a civil party. If the HSBC bank is found guilty at the end of the criminal proceedings for having put in place fraudulent mechanisms allowing its customers to evade the tax due in Belgium, its civil liability will be called into question. It's the ISI that's going to handle this case. The damage that the State could claim for reparation will be determined on the basis of the elements that will be found in the criminal record to which the ISI has requested access. In criminal proceedings, the civil party does not have control over the proceedings. The prosecution must be brought by the public prosecutor. The ISI does not exclude any legal action in cases similar to that of HSBC, but it ensures that, on a case-by-case basis, it considers the possible claims in order to ensure the best chance of success.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u72	Minister, things are becoming more and more clear. I'll come back to you in a month to see if we've been able to see the criminal record and if we know more, even if we're not on the initiative, about the timing of the case. It's an example. Now that you have made this important political decision, we must give ourselves every means to arrive at a decision, too, which is exemplary for fraudsters and those who organise fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u73	Is this a question about tax evasion among the dead?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u74	Mr President, I have a great concern about the fight against tax fraud, but in this case it is not about that. These are rightholders who would like to know whether deceased persons have accounts in particular banks. This is the whole problem of accounts in disinherence, about which there is a law. Minister, the Central Contact Point of the National Bank has been set up as part of the lifting of bank secrecy. To facilitate this process, it was useful to have at a central point all the data on the identity of account holders. The tax administration had to be able to question a particular administration in order to determine which banking institutions were to be questioned in the event of a request for the waiver of bank secrecy. The Central Contact Point can also be useful in other contexts and in the interests of privacy. This is not a question of combating tax fraud. Thus, it is not currently possible for notaries or heirs to consult the Central Contact Point during a succession. They must do the same as before the creation of the latter: interrogate Febelfin and all banking institutions. This is a particularly costly and lengthy procedure, since once Febelfin has been questioned, Febelfin interrogates all its members to try to identify the accounts of a deceased person. If the possibility of access to the Central Contact Point were to be extended to this type of situation, I think it would be more effective to combat the lack of accountability. This would also encourage the collection by the Regions of inheritance rights, as succession would be easier. That is the hypothesis I would like to put forward and study with you. Minister, have you had an evaluation of the operation and results of the BNB's Central Contact Point since it was set up? How many applications have been received since its inception? Do you confirm that it is not possible for notaries or heirs, in connection with estate files, to use the Central Contact Point to identify accounts held by deceased persons? Is it possible, and under what conditions, to extend access to the Central Contact Point in this type of situation, e.g. on the basis of a death certificate, to the persons concerned? Are you considering initiatives in this direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u75	Mr Gilkinet, firstly, between 2 May 2014, the date of its establishment, and 6 March 2015, the CCP (Central Contact Point) responded to 5,333 requests for consultations, broken down as follows: by the FPS Finances (4,340 requests), by persons registered for their own data (993 requests). I think this demonstrates the usefulness of the BNB Central Contact Point. As far as your third question is concerned, I confirm that at present notaries cannot appeal to the Central Contact Point in succession files. Consultation of the Central Contact Point is only accessible to certain officials of the tax administration under a strict procedure laid down by the FPS Finances, which manages access and authentication of accesses. Natural persons and legal persons may also request a free overview of the data recorded in their name at the CCP. In view of your last question, I will ask my administration to examine the possibility of extending access.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-18-54-commissie-ic121x.u76	Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, the impressive number of requests already made by the FPS Finances, I confirm, seems to me to be an indicator of the usefulness of the tool. We pleaded for it to be put in place at the time of the lifting of bank secrecy. We can only rejoice! You confirm the information that the law has restricted access to the Central Contact Point to civil servants under very strict conditions, which is normal at this stage. Once the tool has proven its usefulness, it should be considered in specific cases while respecting privacy. I take note with interest of your openness to study the matter. I will therefore allow myself to ask you about this specific point within a month, so that you can communicate to me the results of your administration's study.
