ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u1	Madam President, my question No. I will not ask you this because I already have Question No 1781. 2675 on the SME plan. That question was about the same thing, and I have already received an answer to it, so question No. 1781 I drop. My second question, No. 4884, I would like to say right away, but I shall first give the floor to Mrs Vanheste.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u2	Minister, I thought I would wait for my questions on the SME plan until you came to the committee to explain the plan, but it seems that I can wait just as well for Godot. On 27 February, you presented your plan, which was approved by the government, to the press, and which had taken time for you to give the sector or committee a chance to look into the plan. I therefore asked for a committee meeting to be held where you would explain your plan. That meeting was supposed to go on after the Easter holiday, but it's June now and we haven't seen them yet. In fact, you're missing your own deadlines. Indeed, the plan states: "The Minister of SMEs will report once a quarter on the progress of each proposed measure, in the form of fact sheets, from April 2015 onwards'. Mr Minister, I have not yet seen a single sheet and the traders have not yet noticed any effect of any of your 40 measures. Meanwhile, every month we get figures of an increasing and declining number of bankruptcies without hope for a more stable and better future with only one trend: more and more small, old SMEs are going down. Mr Minister, since you yourself are not making any progress, I would ask you to do so. Have you consulted with the sector yet? If so, what is the outcome? What is the state of play of the new technical working groups that would be set up according to your plan? How many are already active, how many are still to be formed and where are they with their mission? When can we expect the first general state of play in the form of chips as defined in the SME plan? Can you give an update on each of the 40 measures as promised in the plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u3	Mr President, you have already given a comprehensive answer to my question. 2675 to provide a brief explanation of the SME plan. A quarter of the measures should be in force by the end of 2015, while other measures would be implemented in stages during this legislative period. In your reply you also stated that a quarterly report to the Council of Ministers would be planned. As the subject of Energy has taken up all the attention of our committee over the last few months, other important issues of this committee are getting a little in the background. However, your plan is one of the spearheads of this government to create more jobs and prosperity. That is what we want to follow up closely. That is why I have the following questions for you, Minister. Do you think it is still feasible to introduce a quarter of the measures by the end of 2015? Has there been a quarterly report to the Council of Ministers? If so, can you explain this in committee? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u4	Minister, through the notifications of the Council of Ministers, we have heard that the Minister, responsible for SMEs, agreed to present a state of affairs every six months. That's not what your original SME plan says. On page 15, we find that the SME Minister will review the progress of each proposed measure once a quarter, in the form of fact sheets, from 2015. Mr Minister, I would like to repeat my previous question to give an update on the progress of all measures in your SME plan, but I would also like to know whether there will be a state of play four or twice a year and whether there have been any other changes in the SME plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u5	As you know, ladies and gentlemen, on 27 February I presented an SME plan to the Council of Ministers, as provided for in the government agreement. The government believes that SMEs deserve a specific approach because they are a substantial part of our economic fabric. On the basis of the recent reports by the Federal Planning Office and the National Bank of Belgium, the economic situation in Europe seems to find its way back to growth. So the SME plan comes at the right time. The measures it contains are designed to free our SMEs from the constraints that slow them down in their activities. Belgian SMEs will be the driving force behind the revival of our economy. I would remind you that we will meet on 7 July at a specific economic committee dedicated to the SME plan. So allow me to make it brief here in my reply. The plan contains 40 measures in six axes. Because it was approved by the Council of Ministers, it is supported by the entire government. It goes without saying that each minister remains responsible for his or her subject matter. The six axes of the plan are all linked to the special and important reality of small and medium-sized enterprises and the self-employed. The first axis is competitiveness, taxation and the fight against social dumping. The second axis includes the promotion of entrepreneurship and the improvement of the social status of the self-employed. The financing of SMEs, the bankruptcy and the second opportunity are the third axis. The fourth axis aims to simplify the administrative burden on our businesses and reduce their impeding effects. If our SMEs want to grow, they need to internationalise. This is the fifth axis. Sectoral measures and support for labour-intensive sectors are the sixth and final axis. I have already pointed out that there must be regular reporting in the government and also in Parliament. The deadline of 6 months was ultimately held back to ensure a good balance between quality reporting and the implementation of the measures. I would also like to take this opportunity at the committee meeting on 7 July to give you in detail the progress of the SME plan and a full state of affairs. A quarter of the measures will be decided before the end of 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u6	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. The fact that you have moved the deadline to six months makes sense to me. In three months' time, making evaluations and drawing conclusions seems to me to be rather short. I am pleased to note that you will continue to try to implement those 25% of the measures by the end of 2015 as planned. We are, of course, looking forward to the committee meeting of 7 July 2015, in which you will explain everything specifically and in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u7	Mr President, Minister, like Mr Janssen, I too look forward to 7 July 2015. I regret, however, that it has taken so long. I like the three-month conversion to six months. However, we are a long time later. In the meantime, it was already possible to work. You yourself underline that the continuing strength and revival of the economy lie in the hands of traders and SMEs. So we have to soign them. We must be given the opportunity to defend them and to help them, where necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u8	Madam President, Minister, from the Panorama report "The price of cheap food" on the relationship between supermarkets and their suppliers, there was a clear cry for help from SMEs and farms. The supermarkets fight against each other in order to offer food at the cheapest price, a boxing match where the suppliers in particular get firm hits. The pressure to sell the products at the lowest possible price is unsustainable for small businesses. More and more food companies are going bankrupt or thinking of joining. Entrepreneurs are pushing themselves in a thousand turns to meet the price the supermarket expects. The reportage showed that the race to the bottom for the cheapest price also involves a race to the bottom in quality, to the point that there is potential danger to the consumer. In addition to the enormous pressure to sell at too low a price, other questionable commercial practices are applied. Free products are demanded and introduction money or money for shelf space is requested, again more costs for SMEs that they cannot process in the price they get for their goods. However, there is a solution. A enforceable code of conduct for fair commercial practices can already correct a great deal. We have had a code of conduct since 2010. It was prepared by the industry itself and signed by most major stores, but this remains a non-binding document in practice. In Britain, a code of conduct was drawn up and enforced by the British government itself. Grocery stores that do not comply with the code may be fined. Mr Minister, the situation for SMEs, agricultural holdings and consumers is poignant. Would you like to take stronger and more concrete action to counter these practices? Are you in favour of a enforceable code of conduct for grocery stores? Do you think it is possible to implement it in Belgium? Will you urge the European Union to implement a uniform enforceable code?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u9	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u10	These practices would require suppliers to sell their products at low prices to the detriment of quality and consumers in order to maintain themselves on the market. I would like to clarify some of the principles relating to competition policy and competition law. Each competition policy aims to ensure fair and effective competition between undertakings, to offer a variety of products and services on the market at low prices and of the best quality while encouraging innovation. This objective is very important in certain sectors which are much more sensitive to competitive pressures. This is the case, among other things, in the agri-food sector. Belgium has the legal means to regulate business practices in the field of competition. Book IV, "Protection of economic competition', and Book V, "Competition and price evolution', of the Code of Economic Law, as well as of the Treaty on European Union, do indeed prohibit agreements between undertakings and the abuse of dominant positions by undertakings which prevent, restrict or distort competition. The practices to which you refer in your question are not in themselves and are a priori part of such restrictive competition practices. However, due to the power of certain supermarkets in Belgium, such practices can have an impact on the market access of certain providers such as SMEs. On 10 June 2014, a code of conduct for fair relations between suppliers and buyers in the agri-food chain was signed on the initiative of several associations................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ This code is an instrument that contains principles of good practice in support of fair relations between the agri-food chain operators in order to improve intra-chain cooperation and to promote partnerships between all operators. At Belgian level, we still prefer the voluntaristic way in which the chain consultation has been organised so far. A system such as that in the United Kingdom, where unfulfilled agreements between retailers and suppliers with police authority can be enforced, does not seem to be the right solution in Belgium. The dialogue between the various links in the food chain is also promoted at European level. At the end of 2013, the Supply Chain Initiative was launched by a number of European stakeholders in the food chain. The aim of the initiative is to promote fair commercial practices in the food supply chain as a basis for commercial transactions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u11	Mr Minister, that was a very nice explanation that I knew most of. This does not alter the fact that I believe that you should be more strict on the big food stores. I still do not understand why it cannot be a solution to introduce a enforceable code of conduct.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u12	Minister, bankruptcy insurance has been discussed several times in our committee, including in connection with the discussion of your policy paper and a number of questions. In committee on 20 January, I asked you an oral question on bankruptcy insurance for self-employed persons and, above all, on the possible conversion of that insurance to a bridge insurance scheme. Your policy paper, as well as the replies you gave on 20 January, has shown that you are open to a reform of bankruptcy insurance, with the possible extension of coverage to a number of other risk derivatives, so that a bridge insurance can be discussed in the future. On 20 January, you indicated that you would first wait for the evaluation report of the General Management Committee before taking any further steps, whether or not to a bridge insurance with additional risk cover. These include, inter alia, economic risk derivatives. Mr Minister, since the evaluation report was the next step, I would like to ask you whether that evaluation report is already available. Are there any conclusions from the evaluation report on the use of bankruptcy insurance, on the alternatives and their future? Are there any figures in the report on the number of forced cessations? If so, can you get me those numbers? Is the reasons for the low use of bankruptcy insurance discussed and what are these reasons? What recommendations are made in the report on a possible reform of bankruptcy insurance to bridge insurance? What will you do with the evaluation report and the recommendations? What reform would you suggest yourself? Finally, what procedure do you follow when drafting the Action Plan on Combating Poverty with a chapter on Self-employed Persons?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u13	The General Management Committee for the Social Statute of the Self-employed has not yet completed its evaluation report. Unfortunately, this does not allow me to provide the information requested. I did, however, urge the ABC to complete the evaluation as soon as possible. I will take account of the evaluation report when transforming bankruptcy insurance into a bridging allowance. In reply to your last question, I can tell you that the anti-poverty plan falls within the remit of Mrs Sleurs, Secretary of State responsible for the fight against poverty. It goes without saying that I would argue that a strong chapter in that plan should be devoted to the self-employed. So I'm asking you to be patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u14	Mr. Secretary, I'll be a little patient. However, you announced in January 2015 that the evaluation report might be available by May-June 2015. That's why I asked my question. I understand, however, that it is not yet there and that we have to be patient again for a few weeks or months. Do you have any idea when we can expect the report?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u15	That's gonna take a few more weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u16	So we need to be patient for a few more weeks. The report will therefore be sure after the summer of 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u17	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 3709 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u18	Madam President, Minister, Amway recently published the results of a study on Belgian attitudes to entrepreneurship. According to this report, 73% of Belgians have a favourable attitude towards it, while 27% imagine that they can start their own business. If envy is present, and this is good news, however, few Belgians say they are ready to take the step. The study notes a key point: the younger the respondent, the more he or she is attracted to entrepreneurship. This enthusiasm is even greater among graduates. For respondents, the main reason for hindering entrepreneurship is the lack of a pool of skills ranging from leadership and management to marketing or financial control. One of the main objectives of this government is to highlight and strengthen the spirit of enterprise. Minister, the study found that a majority of respondents (63%) felt that entrepreneurship can be taught in high school and university. Is there any possibility of a consultation between the federal authorities and the Communities so that this topic can be taught? Secondly, the study indicates that 13% of Belgian respondents consider that there is a lack of entrepreneurship education in schools and universities. Do you share this impression? Is there a communication deficit?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u19	Mr President, my colleague, as you have pointed out, the federal government wants to strengthen the spirit of undertaking. In the past, laws relating to access to professions and training for entrepreneurship have been passed. In this context, the Royal Decree of June 2007 was adopted, as were provisions to amend the Programme Act of 10 February 1998. As you have pointed out, teaching skills are the responsibility of the Community authorities and other training components of the regional authorities. As far as I am concerned, I intend to address the findings of the studies on entrepreneurship through the inter-ministerial conferences of consultation between the different levels of power and with the federated entities. Of course, there is not only the basic knowledge of management that is involved, as the Amway study shows, in the provision, in the inclination to undertake for a number of young people or people who, at some point in their careers, wish to turn to entrepreneurship. In this regard, let me remind you of some statistics that show how our situation has changed. Indeed, a sharp decline in self-employment was observed in our country between 1870 and 1970, followed by a period of resumption of entrepreneurship in the 1980s. At the end of the 1970s, many economists thought that this trend would continue and that in the long run there would really be a great possibility of independent entrepreneurship or entrepreneurship. However, when we compare our statistics with neighbouring countries or a number of OECD countries, today we find that our entrepreneurship rate is on average too low, especially among young people. In order to promote entrepreneurship, in addition to cross-cutting education which should include, regardless of the level of concepts, training, management, economic, financial, entrepreneurship and self-employment, we should also work at our level on the upgrading of self-employment status, on the protection of the self-employed, on measures to support SMEs, on their financing and on the whole administrative simplification to which they should be entitled. All these provisions (encouragement through training, provisions on strengthening self-employment, provisions to support SME activity, financing, growth and internationalisation) have yet to be supplemented by other measures in my view. It is thus – and I am addressing it in another question – that we are going to put in place a real status as an entrepreneur student to enable students who wish to do so, in parallel with their higher education or academic career, to quickly embark on entrepreneurial activity. Initiatives in this regard exist at both the University of Ghent and the University of Liège. These initiatives are interesting. There is still a lack of a real status that fully fits this situation of student entrepreneurs. We are working to put this status in place quickly in addition to the other measures already announced. I would also like to point out how this provision for entrepreneurship, regardless of the training in schools, the provisions I have just mentioned, the status of student-entrepreneur, is a general state of mind in society, a positive view of entrepreneurship and trust. It is also one of the goals that we work together with colleagues in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u20	Minister, thank you for that answer. I hear there has been a recovery in entrepreneurship since 1980. Nevertheless, this remains much lower than in a number of neighbouring and other OECD countries. I take note of your actions, which are sound, including consultation with the federated entities. Education depends on the Communities and the Regions. And if you are to implement this SME plan at the federal government level, it is important that it also be supported at the educational level by the federated entities. You stress the importance of the provisions in terms of the status of the self-employed, the financing of SMEs. I note the need to be able to quickly establish a student-entrepreneur status. This will only encourage the dispositions of our young people to set up a business, to set up themselves as an independent and to embark on life in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u21	Minister, last year the agricultural sector launched the campaign "Eat more peers" to undermine the effects of the Russian embargo. This was a great success. Prices of pears are currently at the pre-import ban level and are even attracted. On 24 April, the newspapers announced that our apple sector is now the biggest victim of the Russian boycott. The harvest is not even sold at very low prices. At first, there was no fear of problems for the apple sector because only 10% of exports go to Russia. Poland has meanwhile found the opportunity to offer its own fruit at dumped prices on the European market. As a result, Belgian exports of apples to other countries have stopped. For fruit farmers it is now five to twelve because surpluses and dramatically low prices threaten the next harvest. These entrepreneurs are therefore the major victims of the Russian boycott. Eventually, they had nothing to do with it. I'll come to my questions. Are you aware of this pressing problem? Are there any initiatives you can or will take to encourage these farms? Has this problem been discussed at the Council of Agriculture and Fisheries? If so, what are the findings? If not, is this already on the agenda? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u22	Mrs Gantois, as you know, the Russian embargo on apples and pears entered into force on 7 August 2014, for an initial period of 12 months. This announcement came just before the fruit harvest in our country. As a result, the impact was and is still not negligible, especially for the fruit sector. The pear sector was initially the most affected. This product represented 30,1% of exports under embargo in 2014. The apple sector represented 5.6 % of exports under embargo in 2014. As explained above, these two sectors were severely affected by this embargo. In this respect, several measures were taken by the European Commission to provide financial support to these sectors. On 18 August, the European Commission decided to unblock a first envelope of €125 million for fruit and vegetable producers. On 3 September 2014, the European Commission announced additional support of €30 million for co-financing for promotional purposes in addition to the €60 million foreseen annually in the CAP budget. At the end of September 2014, another € 165 million envelope was unblocked for the sector, after the exhaustion of the first envelope. This second set of measures provides for the extension of intervention measures and measures aimed at removing apples, pears, plums, tomatoes, sweet peppers, cucumbers and carrots from the market. The Russian embargo was on several occasions on the agenda of the European Agriculture Council. During these debates, the Belgian position was always very clear. The whole European agri-food sector is suffering the consequences of a political conflict between Europe and Russia. The only solution is therefore to continue negotiations with Russia in order to put an end to this ban. This is, of course, very difficult. As long as the embargo is maintained, the financial resources must be used efficiently. These resources should come from the global budget, not from heading 2, i.e. not from the European agricultural budget, and be used in the short term for rapid and efficient measures to remove the pressure on markets. The FPS Economy closely follows the situation of several agricultural sectors following the Russian embargo. As you know, a Task Force for Russia was created at Belgian level following this embargo. The Task Force brings together representatives of the multisectoral federations to mitigate the financial impact of the Russian embargo by joining forces to find new markets. After all, the embargo was an electroshock that encouraged the will of all the partners involved to boost exports to other destinations and not just as an alternative to Russia but as a long-term strategic project. I agree and contribute to this where necessary, with respect for everyone's powers. I pay my full attention to the export services of the BFSA, which are within my competence. My cabinet and myself, the sectors concerned and these services are regularly and constructively consulted. Finally, cooperation between the actors of different federations, the BFSA that guarantees the sanitary standards required by importing third countries, the export agencies and the political actors, is necessary for a country with an open economy such as ours.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. I note that you are genuinely committed to this. I continue to believe that it is important that the aid measures should come from the global budget. You mentioned imports to Russia of 5%, but the result of imports from Poland is that, according to the figures from the last quarter of 2013 to the end of 2014, the exports of apples decreased by 19% and the average price decreased by 34,5 %. Those are not to be underestimated percentages. As far as the strategic project is concerned, you said you were looking for other markets. That's very important. I will continue to follow this up and count on you to continue to support our apple growers and other growers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u24	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vermeulen's 3948 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Muylle's 3958 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u25	Madam President, Minister, according to a poll conducted by the neutral union for independents, 74% of the employers of horeca establishments fear that they will have to increase the prices of their food. An article on this subject was published at the end of April. The cause would be the entry into force of the black box. To date, it appears that only slightly less than half of the Horeca establishments have registered with the Finance FPS. However, the deadline has already been exceeded. This lack of registration is due, among other things, to the fact that the bosses are greatly affected by the entry into force of the black box. Minister, have you considered taking steps to counter the fears of many employers of horeca establishments?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u26	Madam Member, as you know, in connection with the introduction of the cash register, the horeca sector has expressed a great deal of concern and the government has wanted to respond very precisely to these fears. We know that the situation in this sector is special since the activity carried out in this sector on an unauthorized basis is important. For example, the number of part-time workers seems really very large and probably artificially very large. In the context of the implementation of the cash register, although it is the responsibility of my government colleagues, we wanted to have an in-depth dialogue with the representative of the Horeca, whom we have met on several occasions, in particular to discuss the elements related to the burden on the work. Although measures have already been taken under previous governments, such as the reduction of the VAT rate from 21 to 12 %, the occasional labour reform, the structural reductions in employers' contributions to the five fixed jobs, it was hoped that, in the context of the budgetary conclave, and before that of the government agreement, additional measures would be decided on in the horeca sector. Some of these measures are currently under discussion in the context of the program law. In particular, these provisions concern the fact that overtime, up to a maximum of 360 hours when the establishment is subject to the cash register or up to a maximum of 300 hours when it is not subject to the cash register, both of which are part of the horeca sector, will now be completely deficalised and free from any burden up to the thresholds I have just indicated. There will therefore be no surcharge for the persons concerned. We have also introduced the additional concept of flexi-job in the case of workers employed at 4/5th time in another employer who come to provide a number of additional hours in the Horeca. These hours will be charged a 25 per cent charge, which will be completely free of any taxes and other social contributions and, in addition, will give rise to social rights. In addition, it will be possible for workers wishing to recover overtime to benefit from a scheme which will now bring the maximum of overtime to 250 hours, compared with 143 previously. An active employer in the horeca sector may use casual workers 200 days a year instead of 100 days previously. In order to extend the dialogue with the sector's partners, the government has decided to create a platform for dialogue with the horeca sector. With regard to the registration of the companies concerned by the cash register, the SPF Finance launched, some time ago, a major awareness-raising campaign. After an extension, which brought the deadline for registration to April 30, it becomes urgent for each contractor to register effectively, so that the application of the cash register can be made on January 1, 2016. We hope that the fund will be used in a preventive manner for the future and will not be used as an a posteriori means of repression for situations which would or would be the subject of a finding following the implementation of the cash register. We hope to assess these measures with the sector and to measure their positive impact on it, even if we are not closed to further reflections for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answer. You will have noticed that I often come back with this type of question. The horeca sector obviously deserves all the attention you give it. I am pleased to note that measures are already being implemented. As far as the coming into force is concerned, insert it well into the program law that we are going to deal with shortly in our committee. I will read your answer with great attention
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u28	Since Mrs Fonck was absent, her question No 4204 became moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u29	Madam Chair, Minister, this is not the first time we have mentioned this subject. We know that SMEs represent more than 99% of Belgian companies, apart from the banking and insurance sectors. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) has analysed access to credit for enterprises in 34 countries during the period 2007-2013. The situation is very worrying for micro-enterprises composed of 1 to 9 people. The OECD notes that the rate of credit rejection has increased from 17% in 2008 to 27% at present. This rate is much higher than that of all companies in Belgium. Yet, our economy needs new entrepreneurs and investors who are sometimes blocked due to lack of sufficient credit or who arrive too late. Minister, even if we have few levers, what can we do to support the SME sector in addressing this issue? I would point out that I had addressed this question to Minister Kris Peeters as Minister of Economy, but I am obviously pleased that Minister Borsus is responding.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u30	Mrs Jadin, your question is related to the SME plan. You're right. As I have just mentioned, access to finance for SMEs, especially for micro-enterprises, is a key issue for the economic and social development of our country. As is well known, recent arrangements have been made for participatory financing and encouraged through tax levers. The SME tax shelter and crowdfunding have just been approved by the government at second reading and are submitted to parliament. This is an important aspect of business support, both the financing of and the creation of start-ups and the financing of business growth. In addition, the Act, which contains provisions on the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises, entered into force on 1 March 2014. It covers a series of clauses, including the maximum amounts of re-employment benefits. It imposes on the bank a duty of information, in particular on the forms of credit adapted to the company and on the reasons for any refusal of credit. A code of conduct was adopted and made mandatory by royal decree. It specifies reciprocal rights and obligations and defines the contours of the duty of information. Lack of knowledge or, where appropriate, non-compliance with this code allows the judge to convert the innovation and the transaction into a credit which is better suited to the company, taking into account its financial situation at the time of the conclusion of the contract. All this is in the direction of a better adaptation of the banking offer and its management to the expectations and needs of SMEs. The Government Agreement provides for an assessment of this law on access to credit, which will cover, inter alia, demand for and supply of credit, compliance with credit volumes, the role of the regulator and the performance of the control mission by FSMA. Without prejudging the results of this evaluation, we will pay particular attention to very small businesses and starters who are experiencing more difficulties in accessing credit. Recent studies by UNIZO, UCM and SPF Economy have demonstrated this very recently. Finally, we intend to look at the elements related to the robustness of the enterprise project, the business plan and the financial plan by deepening the financial and managerial training of starters and SMEs, in particular in consultation with the figures professionals. The study I mentioned at the moment shows how difficult small businesses are. I have these figures at your disposal. Furthermore, we know that, following Basel II and Basel III, the general conditions for granting credit and the attitude of banking institutions have changed. With regard to the evaluation of the December 2013 law, we already have a number of provisional figures. Let me also draw your attention to the fact that there is a credit mediation service, which is provided at regional level in particular. Some initiatives have been taken at this level and deserve to be compared with this relationship to the credit of our companies. I shall keep the document containing all the statistics at your disposal, as well as that of all the members of this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u31	Madam Chair, Minister, I thank you for your answer, which is interesting given the importance of the subject under discussion. I remember working on this bill in this committee. I therefore assume that I will not be the only member of this committee who wants to have access to the figures you have in order to organise a slightly wider exchange of views on the subject, as soon as our agenda permits.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u32	Madam President, Minister, my question is about the general terms and conditions of contracts that Keyware applies, which rents payment terminals to merchants. Following a cessation of business, a merchant terminated the lease. Keyware requires it to pay 750 euros for unilateral breach of contract. This cost is provided for in the general terms and conditions of the contract. There is a break when the lease agreement is drawn up for five years. Here, the five years had not yet passed. Can we not consider, on the one hand, that the five-year contract, which cannot be terminated otherwise than by a fee, is unfair in the case of a start-up of a trade? Many of them will unfortunately not exceed the two years of activity, as we all know. On the other hand, the amount of the €750 break-in allowance seems to me to be even more abusive. What is your opinion on the matter? I have asked the same question to your colleague in charge of consumer protection, but since these are independents here, you are both competent. Should we not align certain unfair terms between independents and companies with what is practiced for consumers? The relationship is clearly unbalanced between a large, almost monopolistic company like Keyware and a provincially established flower seller. The committee on unfair terms is solely responsible for relations with consumers. However, small independents and small traders should also be protected. I would also point out that Keyware will be tried in October for fraud, forgery in writing and breach of the Economic Code, as it has taken unfair steps towards the independents to change their contracts. I think we need to act against these monopolistic companies in our territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u33	Madam Member, as you mentioned, Keyware's practices are being prosecuted in the correctional court for misleading business practices against other companies, which are prohibited by Book VI of the Code of Economic Law and, in particular, by sections 6.106 and 6.107 and for fraud. In addition, UNIZO, the main association of middle classes in Flanders, has set up a charter for payment terminal providers to which several of them, including Athos, have spontaneously acceded. This charter is designed to ensure that the self-employed are not linked for more than a year. I agree with you: such clauses must be combated. They can already be done on the basis of general contract law. Indeed, claiming such amounts as severance pay has already been considered in case law as an abuse of rights. It is, of course, the judge's sole responsibility to decide and assess. In addition, there are already legislation protecting the small self-employed against the abuse of certain large companies in specific areas. I am thinking, for example, of the Act of 2 August 2002 on combating late payment in commercial transactions. Protecting small self-employed persons and SMEs in such situations should be considered, in particular the possibility of extending to them the scope of certain consumer protection provisions, such as the prohibition of certain clauses considered to be abusive. I am quite prepared to carry out this work, in consultation of course with the actors, the representative structures and the Parliament, especially since other elements of contractual proposals, in other contexts and with other economic interlocutors, which have also been communicated to me, seem to me to be able, in some cases, to be regarded as an abusive approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answer. As I always say, a charter is good, but the sign that wants! A court may consider that this charter does not exist, since it has no legal or normative constraints. I believe, and your colleague also seemed to agree, that it is essential to work on legislative amendments. I also think I'm taking an initiative. Today, small independents and small traders are not sufficiently protected. All laws exist in the Economic Code. It would suffice to add that these people are regarded for certain things as consumers. They would then benefit from more comprehensive protection. I very soon hope to see initiatives to avoid this kind of abusive clause towards the small independents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u35	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 4112, by Mrs Vanheste Question No 41, by Mr Janssen: Question No 4359, by Mrs Smaers: Question No 4307, by Mrs Vanheste Question No 43, by Mr Janssen: Question No 4461, by Mrs Jadin: Question No 4631, by Mr Janssen: Question No 49, by Mrs Smaers and Question No 4979 Ms Vanheste's 5096 and 5328 shall be postponed to 7 July 2015 at the request of the Minister and with the agreement of the Committee. They can be dealt with after the Minister's exposé on the SME plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u36	Mr Lachaert is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u37	Minister, I will ask my two questions in one go. The academic council of KU Leuven has decided that a new student status will be granted, namely from student-entrepreneurship. Students wishing to set up a business can claim certain benefits. This can be from spreading or moving lessons and exams to providing guidance and rooms. A number of colleges and Ghent University also have such status and it may be called successful. Last year, 85 students from Ghent University indicated that they wanted to make use of the statute. Anyone who discovers the entrepreneurial blood in himself and alone wants to stamp a company out of the ground together with others must be supported. Because a student does not have a full status, a connection as a self-employed person is only possible in the main occupation. The student-self-employed person who pays social contributions has a full social status as a self-employed person with the corresponding social rights. In that case, it's still hard to be a student. In proposal 18 of the SME Plan, the government will examine a student entrepreneurial status with a view to launching an entrepreneurship project. In this context, it exercises a reflection on the status of self-employed persons in the secondary professions. In order to encourage more young people to become a student entrepreneur, it is important not only to have a reflection exercise, but to ensure that such an official status is established as soon as possible. Ghent University calls for the status of student entrepreneur to be aligned with the status of job student. Mr Minister, have you already sat around the table with the ministers concerned to achieve an official student-entrepreneur status? If so, what are the conclusions? If not, when will the talks begin? By when do you intend to include the official status of student-entrepreneur in the status of self-employed in the secondary profession? With regard to the Ghent University proposal, what is your opinion on the question of aligning the status of a job student with the status of a job student, since you want to include it in the status of a self-employed person in an auxiliary occupation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u38	Minister, in your reply to Mr Friart's questions, you have already mentioned the status of the student entrepreneur and your intentions to support that statute. As mentioned by colleague Janssen, a number of universities already offer opportunities for combining entrepreneurship and being a student. We can only support that. In the committee it has already been underlined several times that we are the combination of the student and the entrepreneur is glad to encourage. We want to support and facilitate the efforts and intentions of Ghent University and Liège University to work on a special status. In order to improve the shape of this statute, it seems that there is a need for a legal framework. There is an important difference in terms of legal standards to earn, between a job student, who can earn up to 6 000 euros, and a student entrepreneur, who can earn up to a little less than 1 500 euros. I would like to highlight this difference: an adjustment may be made to this if we want to facilitate and support the status of student entrepreneur. I refer again to the SME plan, in particular proposal No 18: the government will explore the possibilities of enabling students to have the status of student entrepreneur, to launch entrepreneurship projects. What is the state of play in this? What steps have already been taken? Is there a plan of action or a timetable against when the Statute can be implemented? Will you investigate whether the status can at least be aligned with that of a job student? I have already referred to the differences in the maximum wage. That difference should also be addressed. Finally, the government agreement states that the government will examine the modalities for calculating the 50-day credit for student work in hours in order to give students and employers greater flexibility. That is an important measure. It is a responsibility of Minister for Social Affairs De Block, but since you are competent for Self-employed and SMEs and, of course, should also mention the student entrepreneur link, I would like to ask you if you have already consulted the relevant Minister for Social Affairs. What is the current state of play in the file on the changeover to the hourly quota in order to allow more flexible student work?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u39	Minister, more and more young people are thinking of starting their own business. They have an original idea and desire to do something, but are often still on university banks. Universities often support these young people themselves now, but I think there are a lot of opportunities here for the government to support these new forces, such as equal social and fiscal treatment for job students and students-entrepreneurs. Flemish Minister Muyters has already launched proposals to speed up the process of obtaining a degree in business management for these young people, and now you are proposing in your SME plan to introduce a student entrepreneur's status. These are interesting proposals, but not enough and useless if the federal government does not cooperate with the Länder. Minister, what do you mean by the status of student entrepreneur? Will the student entrepreneur receive additional guidance and tax or social benefits at the start-up, so that it becomes as attractive to be a student entrepreneur as it is to be a job student? Do you intend to sit down with your fellow Länder nationals in order to draw up a full plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u40	I very much welcome the decision of the universities and colleges that allow students to combine their studies with self-employed professional activities. I hope that the other universities and colleges will follow that example soon. As I have said in my general policy statement, the entrepreneurial spirit in Belgium remains too weak. It is therefore important to promote entrepreneurship, particularly during the studies that our young people are preparing for working life. I am convinced that a student can learn a lot and in some cases even a great deal from a professional and personal point of view of entrepreneurship or self-employment. I would like to make it clear that current legislation allows a student under conditions to pursue an independent activity in addition to his studies, with an artificial but favourable status. According to current legislation, a student is considered, under certain conditions, to be a self-employed subsidiary, i.e. if his income is less than EUR 6 742,06. That's the amount for 2015. In that framework, he should not pay social contributions if his annual income is less than EUR 1 423.9. That too is the amount for 2015. I would like to have a reflection on the improvement of this legislation at the level of the General Management Committee for the Social Status of the Self-employed. I hope I can make a global proposal for October. After all, I am convinced that it is important to help young people who often feel like taking action and taking action, while a series of obstacles prevent them from doing so, such as social pressure, pressure from parents or the fear of having no income in the short term. In that context, it seems appropriate to me to consider the consequences for family allowances, of course in negotiations with the Länder. Of course, I want the child benefit to be maintained. I also have to study the tax statutes. We know that the risk appetite decreases greatly with the young student or the young graduate, for understandable reasons of certainty, image, being stuck in situations of personal or professional comfort. So there really is a momentum that needs to be valorized. Our country needs entrepreneurs. There is no doubt that an improved status of student entrepreneur will increase their number in the future. You can count on me to contribute to this. A question has also been asked about the hours for the students, but that is within the competence of my colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u41	Minister, I understand from your reply that you share the same concern as all the speakers who have spoken. By October 2015, you will come to us with a global proposal. It is a good thing that you want to include the impact on family allowances in the tax statute. You will probably have to negotiate this with the Länder. Now, Minister Muyters has already taken some measures for student entrepreneurship in the Flemish Government within his powers. In consultation with the Länder, I believe that the Statute can only improve on it. We are therefore looking forward to October 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I fully support your plea that the entrepreneurial spirit in Belgium can be enhanced and that all support for it is welcome. I am therefore naturally pleased with your answer that you will also take this dossier to heart in order to work on this entrepreneurial spirit and, above all, on the statute to make student entrepreneurship a little easier. I look forward to your answer in October. As far as your remark on the hourly quota of student work is concerned, I have already mentioned that it is the responsibility of the Minister for Social Affairs. However, it is important that you monitor this from the point of view of SMEs and the self-employed in order to achieve greater flexibility. This will facilitate the combination of student work with other things, if one works with an hourly quota. Hence the importance of monitoring this also from your jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u43	Minister, it is of course important that this is done in October as the students will then go back to school after the holiday. I understand that this has to be checked out before you can get started. I have received an answer to two questions, but the third question was whether you have already had discussions with your colleagues in the Länder. That wasn't clear to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u44	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u45	Minister, at the Council of Ministers on 27 March 2015, the government committed itself to implementing gender mainstreaming as an approach to concretely strengthening equality between women and men in society. The gender dimension will now be integrated into each policy area. An important part is breaking a stereotyped mind and questioning certain patterns and structures. Gender mainstreaming is a very effective policy instrument, but difficult to apply when not everyone is behind it. Minister, I noticed that in your policy plans and statements I have not yet noted any measures to promote equal opportunities. That is why I have the following questions. Will you draw up an additional plan relating to gender mainstreaming? Have you already appointed someone in your policy cell to oversee the implementation of gender mainstreaming? Do you see the inequalities between men and women in your policy area? Are you willing to sit with the centres of expertise to detect unequal opportunities? How will you make it clear in your upcoming policy how you have applied gender mainstreaming?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u46	Ms Vanheste, taking into account the law on gender mainstreaming of January 2007, stated in the October 2014 government agreement that the government committed itself to integrating the gender dimension into each policy area, thus eliminating existing inequalities and preventing public policies from creating inequalities between women and men or strengthening gender mainstreaming. The agreement also clarifies that particular attention will be paid to the different situations of women and men in the context of socio-economic reforms. In line with the Royal Decree of 26 January 2010 and the decision of the Council of Ministers of 27 March 2015, a federal gender mainstreaming plan should be developed within the Interdepartmental Coordination Group and proposed by the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities at the Ministerard. This performance should take place before the summer. I have appointed Mrs Carolien Smallgange from my policy cell as a member of the interdepartmental coordination group. Unfortunately, in my policy area, I regularly come across figures showing inequalities between men and women. Together with the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, we have already identified a number of policies relating to men and women in different situations. It will integrate the gender dimension. The guidelines will be further developed by the interdepartmental coordination group and will be proposed by the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities at the Council of Ministers. I am sorry, ma'am, but it is still a little too early to give a detailed state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u47	Mr Minister, you make good promises, but I believe that your answer was made a month ago, because you are talking about 'before summer' and it is now summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u48	I mean before the end of the parliamentary committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u49	All right, I hope we can count on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u50	Madam President, Minister, recently newsagents again raised the alarm. Quite right, because every year there are hundreds of newspaper shops to close. The emergence of online subscriptions, the cutting of margins on the sale of products from the National Lottery and the black market for tobacco products, are all factors that the operators themselves have little control over. Another thorn in the eye is the press distribution via AMP. That's not an unknown in the story either. Daily dealers are required by the publishers to have a certain range of press releases. The press items which are not sold may in principle be returned and credited. However, many traders receive far too large a delivery and often have to send back up to half. When sending back, people notice that a lot is going wrong. First of all, there is the administrative burden, but the excess of articles also causes storage problems and disputes about the number of articles returned. Due to the new automation at AMP, the company unilaterally accepts the amount of returned items, so no discussion is possible. AMP was already convicted because the company charges too high transport costs to the press vendors. Nevertheless, there has been little change in these high costs. Minister, it is no longer five to twelve, but five to twelve for the daily merchants. Would you like to discuss with the actors concerned a flexible purchasing regime, high transport costs and the return system?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u51	Madam President, Mrs Vanheste, as Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, Self-employed and SMEs, I am of course very attentive to a viable environment for newspaper shops. The problems raised regarding the flexible reduction of newspapers, the high transport costs and the return system of AMP were widely addressed during the previous political legislature. Several initiatives in this area would not have produced any results. In the course of next month, therefore, I will organise a consultation in my cabinet with all the actors involved and, of course, I will involve the Minister for Consumer Affairs. I will make an evaluation of the previous initiatives and then come back to the government and Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u52	Minister, I am very pleased with the initiative you will take. These people have been in trouble for years. I tabled a resolution on this matter during the previous parliamentary term, which was adopted unanimously. However, I have heard little about this in recent years and it seems that the problem has not yet been resolved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u53	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Gantois' 4268 was postponed until 7 June. Mr Gilkinet is not yet here. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Winckel's 4586 question will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u54	Madam President, Minister, on 26 May last, the European Commission approved 24 new agricultural development programmes. In February of this year, it had already agreed to 18 programmes aimed at improving competitiveness in the agricultural sector, ensuring rural and climate conditions, and also strengthening the economic and social fabric in rural areas. It's about the period up to 2020. We are talking about EUR 27 billion in agricultural subsidies spent on these new programmes. However, only a limited number of EU Member States can claim this. Countries such as the United Kingdom and Germany for the second time fall into prices, unlike, for example, our country to which no budget has been allocated this time. Innovative agricultural projects and European partnership should be encouraged to meet future challenges and seize the opportunities that exist. However, I have questions about the granting of these agricultural subsidies to a select number of Member States. I therefore have a number of questions for you, Minister. Can you explain the distribution of these agricultural subsidies? For what reasons is it decided to grant subsidies to one country and not to the other? Can you explain why our country does not receive part of this substantial budget? What specific objectives are these agricultural subsidies intended to achieve? What are the conditions for receiving such subsidies? Can you agree with my view that European agricultural policy should focus on a proper pricing policy and competition policy in order to tackle the problem of agriculture at its roots, rather than providing financial support each time? Fair pricing of agricultural products could lead to farmers becoming less and less dependent on subsidies. Do you agree with me that the final objective should actually be a non-grant agriculture in which the farmer himself can reap sufficient benefits from his activities? Will you take steps to address the issues outlined at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u55	Madam President, Mrs Gantois, I am sorry, but the rural development policy is a competence of the Regions under the special law of 2001 on the transfer of various powers to the Regions and the Communities. I am therefore only the spokesman of the Regions in this matter in the European Council. I therefore propose that this question be referred to the competent regional authorities, since I have no competence in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u56	I will, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u57	Minister, important efforts have been made to bring social contributions much more closely into line with the real income of the self-employed. This should provide help and support to many self-employed people, by taking effective account of real income and thus leaning closer to reality. In the past, the three-year period to pay social contributions did give a false picture of the real income that is sometimes..... but not always... lower than three years before. Fortunately, with others they are higher, but then there is less a problem. The method of calculation was adjusted on 1 January. I'm glad that adjustment happened. Now I hear that not so many self-employed people are using this new method of calculation and that this partly depends on how they are informed about this. As long as the self-employed person does not know his income of the year, he pays provisional contributions. They're still based on the income from three years ago. The self-employed person can pay more if he or she expects the income of the year to be higher. However, he can also pay less contributions if he sees his income fall. He himself must then prove to his social insurance fund that his income is lower and indicate that he wants to use the real method of calculation, adapted since 1 January. As a result of the treatment of the first quarter and in the meantime almost the second quarter, I would like to know what impact this has had on the social contributions received by the government or at least at the greenhouses. Mr Minister, do you have an idea of the number of self-employed people who have used the new method of calculation since the introduction? How much of the contributors still pay on the basis of the income of three years ago and did they not ask for an increase or a reduction? Secondly, what impact does the new scheme have on the total contributions paid? Can you compare the deposits for the first quarter of 2015 with those for the first quarter of 2014 and 2013? Is there a substantial evolution in this when you compare them? Finally, your policy paper states that the reform of the method of calculating social contributions will be first evaluated by the ADC and the administration in the first quarter of 2015. What came out of that evaluation? I take it she took place? What are the decisions? How many people call on the new method of calculation? Is this sufficiently known? What about the change in income for greenhouses?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u58	Mrs Smaers, I have a series of figures on the applications and the granting of reductions in contributions for the first quarter of 2015. On 1 015 075 self-employed persons, 963 929 have not been reduced and so the social contributions determined on the income of three years earlier or on a flat-rate amount when it comes to a starter remain payable. 51 146 selfemployed persons applied for and obtained a lower contribution. 2 262 of them were allowed to reduce their calculation base, initially from 2012, to the minimum threshold of the self-employed in the main occupation. That mimimimum is at 12 870.43 euros. 2 192 selfemployed persons were allowed to reduce their calculation basis to the level of double the minimum threshold of the selfemployed in the main occupation. 46 692 selfemployed persons who are either employed or assimilated or after retirement were also allowed to reduce their calculation basis to lower thresholds. In these cases, most of them are self-employed persons who already benefited from a reduction in the old regime on the basis of evidence of very low or no income. I asked my administration to have precise figures for this group from the second quarter onwards. It should be noted that the 2 181 applications for a reduction were provisionally refused, possibly pending additional objective elements. I have the figures of that for you. As far as the upward adjustment is concerned, it is currently not possible to provide figures on the number of self-employed persons who requested or made an increase in the provisional contributions in the first quarter. These figures will be available for the second quarter, in the second half of July. For the time being, these self-employed are included in the 963 000 self-employed who have not obtained a reduction. However, I can tell you that, during the first quarter, EUR 52 969 000 was added by the self-employed. These are payments made on top of the provisional contribution due, either the income from N....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Once again, we must pay attention to the fact that this amount covers not only the adjustments linked to the reform, but also the additional payments made by the start-ups, for example. These start-ups were already able to pay higher amounts for the reform than the flat-rate contributions. I also have some figures with the impact at the moment. We will, of course, have a preliminary evaluation in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for the figures. It is indeed appropriate to monitor the situation carefully, especially as regards the objective of the reform, so that we can check whether the adjustment effectively meets the question of why the recalculation of social contributions could be paid. I do not know whether the self-employed are sufficiently aware of the possibility of using the real figures. Is there enough communication from the social security funds for the self-employed? Perhaps you could ask them again to ensure that information is provided correctly, because at least I have the impression that it is not yet sufficiently known that the new method of calculation can be used. Additional information on this can be helpful.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u60	Madam President, Minister, my previous question No. 3266 to you dealt with brewery contracts. In that question, I said that brewery contracts should not be strangled contracts, so that entrepreneurs could no longer exercise profitable entrepreneurship. However, you stated that no specific meeting with the operators in the catering sector was organised on the brewery contracts. However, all professional federations represented in the Supreme Council for the Self-employed and SMEs were received, and consequently also the professional federation for the catering industry, to listen to their expectations. You also replied that it would not be unreasonable to think that the problem could be resolved before 2016. Today, Horeca Flanders switched a bit higher. On 5 June 2015, Horeca Vlaanderen delivered you her collection of requirements. It's a thick bundle, which I don't want to recreate here. In summary, however, it is the following. The federation asks that the brewery contracts be reduced to the essence, namely the sale of the brewery's beers. The entrepreneur must be free to buy at least one beer in barrel from another brewery. The minimum purchase obligation should be abolished. No mandatory contract may be negotiated with the beverage supplier. In order to achieve a healthy economic environment, the public authorities must intervene and restore the free market in the pub sector. About 60 to 70 % of the operators do not have the freedom to purchase what and how much they want. Usually there is such an agreement because the brewery owns the property. In return for the investment and the establishment of the café, the brewery demands that the beer be taken from her, which is also understandable. However, many contracts state that a certain quantity of hectolitres must be taken: soft drinks, wine, coffee cookies, detergent and even toilet paper must be purchased from them or from friendly suppliers at a fixed price. Breweries make it appear that entrepreneurs often do the business of their lives. But once they stand on the ground, reality turns out to be quite different. I had already asked Minister Peeters my question. I spoke to you earlier. Apparently, the powers are divided between different ministers. That is why I am asking you the following questions. Did you receive the bundle of requirements? Was he discussed among the relevant ministers? Is there a will to deal with excesses in the brewery contracts? When are you planning a consultation with all the operators in the catering sector to discuss the brewery contracts? Will you stick to your previous answer that the problem might have been solved by the end of 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u61	Mr Janssen, question No. Mrs Vanheste's 5095 report on the stranglehold contracts in the hospitality industry will be in line with your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u62	Mr Minister, earlier we discussed the suffocating contracts that catering operators have to deal with in this committee. I am not going to repeat the explanation, but I think we all agree that many of those contracts go far too far. So far so that they lead to bankruptcy because the operator himself has no freedom about how to run the café. At that time, you announced that you would work quickly to find a solution. In the meantime, Horeca Flanders has delivered a collection of demands to the federal government. Their demands, I believe, are very correct and realistic. Horeca Flanders does not demand the abolition of the brewery contracts but to bring them back to the essence so that the operator himself has sufficient choice about the offer of the business. Minister, did you receive the demand package? What is your first response to the proposals of Horeca Vlaanderen? When do you expect to get to work on this in order to finally land?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u63	The Catering Federations were indeed received in my cabinet in the light of the meetings with the professional federation of Belgium from November 2014. In view of the specific commitment and measures taken by the government in favour of the sector this year, the representative federations were subsequently consulted on a number of occasions, in particular in order to address the challenges of the sector, but the brewery contracts were not the main issue. In the last month I and my cabinet have taken the initiative to receive the Catering Federations on the issue of brewery contracts. The aim is to gain a good understanding of the problems raised in the coalition agreement. The series of proposals you mentioned in your question was received by my cabinet on 8 June. It goes without saying that I am biting the honourable Member: the contracts must under no circumstances strangle the entrepreneurs and they must not lose their independence. The government does indeed have the will to tackle the problems with brewery contracts. As I have said, this is a dossier which deserves special attention and a nuanced approach. I would also point out that my colleague, Mr Peeters, who is responsible for this matter, shares this view in his reply on 9 June last, as regards the balance to be struck between the beverage dealers, the brewers and the catering operators. A consultation meeting was held on 16 June with all relevant actors under the leadership of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economic Affairs. The latter has proposed, among other things, the notion of economic dependence, as applied in France. The Deputy Prime Minister also pointed out that by September he had asked for an opinion from the Arbitration Committee on the unbalanced clauses in brewery contracts. Any regulatory measures may be considered after consultation and advice. My colleague Kris Peeters hopes to be able to land that dossier this year. I think it will take some time for the most appropriate solution to emerge, without locking itself in an overly tight agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is in line with Minister Kris Peeters' reply. A solution does indeed require some time. We must not rush into it, but speed it up, so that these contracts become more liveable. I will certainly follow up on this problem further.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u65	Minister, I share the same view. I think we should not wait too long and speed things up. At the end of September or early October, I repeat my question on the subject. Then you probably already know more.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic198x.u66	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dedry's 5140 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 51, by Mrs Gabriels: Question No 52, by Mrs Gantois and Question No 5212 and 5213 Mr Dispa. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his excellent report.
