ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u1	Minister, together with two colleagues, I had the opportunity to attend the International Conference of Young Parliamentarians, organized by the Inter-Parliamentary Union in Tokyo at the end of May. A day was devoted to development cooperation. Following your hearing last week on the post-2015 development goals, I wanted to ask you three questions. Could you first inform me about the new models of partnership and financing for development cooperation in view of the Addis Ababa Conference to be held next month? Secondly, I would like to discuss with you the links between development cooperation and new technologies, since you are also Minister for the Digital Agenda. Finally, what is the place reserved for young people in the definition of the post-2015 goals? Would you like me to develop these three questions separately?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u2	This is necessary for the record.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u3	Mr President, my question relates to the inclusion of the needs of young people in development cooperation and the post-2015 development goals. During four days of discussions, nearly 280 participants from more than seven hundred countries in the world, including only ten European delegations, affirmed their conviction of a world youth that aspires to democratic, peaceful and prosperous societies, and their sense that it is crucial to involve this youth in the decision-making process, despite their disenchantment, apathy, disinterest in politics and unrest. The discussions revolved around a series of topics, including how to respond to the most important challenges facing the world's 3.5 billion young people, namely unemployment, poverty, discrimination and conflict. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, could you indicate to me the strong points that you intend to develop and put forward in order to enable Belgian Development Cooperation and the new post-2015 development goals to meet the expectations and needs of young people?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u4	Mr President, negotiations on the post-2015 development agenda are under way and are expected to lead to a set of sustainable development goals in September. The post-2015 agenda will be comprehensive and integrate the different dimensions of sustainable development, both economic, environmental and social. This approach ensures that attention is given to the underlying causes of unemployment, poverty, discrimination and conflict, which also translates into specific objectives for these problems. Youth has been closely involved in the preparations, negotiations and development agenda for the post-2015 period. Indeed, the definition of sustainable development has an important dimension for young people and future generations. Sustainable development is a development that meets the needs of the present generation, without jeopardizing the ability of future generations to support themselves. In the current proposal for sustainable development objectives, there are some specific targets for youth in the areas of health (Objective 3.2), education (Objective 3), gender equality (Objective 5), youth employment (Objective 8.5), and the prohibition of child labour (Objective 8.7). The overall objective of Belgian Development Cooperation is human development and will contribute fully to the achievement of the post-2015 sustainable development agenda, as it is currently working towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals. The Development Cooperation Act stipulates that in order to achieve inclusive, equitable and sustainable economic growth, priority will be given to local entrepreneurship, the social economy and the decent work agenda of the International Labour Organization (ILO). In this context, Belgium's development policy is currently paying particular attention to the development of the private sector and entrepreneurship, which are the main players in creating productive jobs for young people. Digitization is a must. We are currently examining how development cooperation can make a concrete contribution to the integration of young people from developing countries into this digital world. Education and training are one of the four priority sectors of Belgian Government Development Cooperation. Education, including technical and vocational training, is the essential basis for access to decent work. In this area, we will commit ourselves not only to achieving quantitative but also qualitative results. Greater attention will be paid to access to education for girls who will contribute to their empowerment and access to the labour market, which will further protect them from early marriage and forced migration, among others. Since Belgian aid will focus more on the least developed countries, the task will be difficult but necessary in order to give young people a dignified future. Various channels of aid can be used to implement our policy, including cooperation with the ILO. The government has decided that the ILO will remain a partner organization. During the period 2013-2015, the ILO will receive an unallocated contribution of EUR 13.5 million. This contribution was made into the ILO fund used for eight priority programmes, including Jobs and skills for youth. Our contribution to the ILO will remain largely unallocated. However, as in the past, funding for specific projects remains possible. For example, Belgium financed an ILO programme on vocational education in the DRC for a total amount of just over €4 million over the period 2012-2015. The aim was to increase the employability of young people and stimulate entrepreneurship in them. This programme is currently subject to an evaluation, the results of which will form the basis for a possible extension. The aim is also to contribute to the overall knowledge of ILO strategies supporting youth employment, particularly in the context of the call for action for the youth employment crisis launched at the International Labour Conference in June 2012. At the bilateral level, Belgian Cooperation supports interventions in the technical and vocational training sector in four partner countries (DRC, Uganda, Burundi and Palestine). The aim of these interventions is to support the establishment of technical and vocational training centres which provide young people with training tailored to the needs of the local labour market. Indirect cooperation, notably through the APEFE and VVOB, is also very active in the field of technical and vocational training in several countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u5	Minister, thank you for the accuracy of your answers. Like you, I believe in the importance of employability and entrepreneurship as part of this assistance that we can and must provide to young people in order to achieve our development cooperation objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u6	Mr President, this question is a continuation of the previous one. It is based on three observations following the discussions of the IPU Conference:- the first is that the group of under 25s represents 40% of Internet users worldwide, but that 64% of the under 25s are not yet connected, so that they have neither the material means nor the skills to participate in the digital economy; - the second is that participation in technological innovation gives young people the opportunity to move from job-searching to job-creating, since digital knowledge is a good tool for starting a business, regardless of the country; - and the third, that information and communication technologies transform traditional sectors (agriculture, manufacturing and the health sector) and create new ones that need young people who know the digital field. In addition to these digital findings and opportunities, Belgium is fully part of the European strategy to help developing countries build the necessary trade capacities and make more effective use of trade to combat poverty. The Belgian Development Cooperation Act explicitly provides for the encouragement of entrepreneurship and the promotion of participation in international trade under favourable conditions. Could you, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, in view of your expertise in Development Cooperation and the Digital Agenda, tell me to what extent you intend to integrate these new opportunities offered by information and communication technologies into development cooperation? What are your intentions to develop the digital feature of development cooperation that would open up profitable business opportunities for younger generations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u7	Mr. Foret, I have the answer in Dutch. I'll leave it to the professionals to translate it. The importance of data and digitalisation for achieving the post-2015 development agenda is unmistakable. The digital economy is a very important factor for development. It is therefore my intention to integrate a data element into future Belgian interventions. My focus in this domain is on what is called conversational data, which is generated in real time by the beneficiaries of development aid and which can give us immediate feedback on the relevance and impact of our interventions. In developing countries, the affordability and availability of ICT services is often a problem, especially for the poorest in rural areas. Investment in networks in these areas often leads to too low returns for the private sector to invest alone. Supporting public-private cooperation to accelerate the deployment of high-capacity networks and to ensure greater access to affordable broadband services provides a solution in that situation. It is therefore important to involve the private sector as much as possible in our approach. The theme of the World Development Report 2016 of the World Bank, Internet for development, offers a unique opportunity to further refine our approach in this domain. New ICT technologies should enable access to basic services such as education for all. Indeed, broadband access is a crucial step towards economic and social integration. Investing in digitalisation therefore means focusing on sustainable inclusive economic growth, which can create new jobs and benefit most of the population from ICT benefits. Digitisation allows empowerment through increased transparency, gives people a public voice and enables intermediaries to be eliminated and consequently reduce transaction costs. By making better use of data, a donor country such as Belgium can use the resources where they are most needed, and thus also develop interventions that respond better to partner countries located at different levels of economic development. By making more and better use of data and using it as an analysis tool, we can gain a better understanding of the poverty that we want to combat. In this way, we can also help governments create a better market environment where the population can fully benefit from the benefits of ICT innovations available. It is therefore important to also focus on the skills of users, so that everyone can use the new technology and employ young entrepreneurs for commercial purposes, which can provide additional jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u8	Deputy Prime Minister, I am obviously convinced by your double cap (Cooperation and Digital Agenda). Thanks to you, Belgium will play an important role. The lever that these information and communication technologies provide will be a reality. I will therefore carefully follow the next developments. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u9	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, in your second reply you spoke of public-private partnerships in development cooperation. During this day of reflection and discussion, particularly on the Japanese perspective and how to cooperate, the focus was on these partnerships. I would have liked to know Belgium's position on this matter. What are the prospects for the coming years of these new or existing but evolving partnerships? How do we stand in this area, inter alia, in the face of the challenge of new technologies and broadband infrastructure in developing countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u10	Mr President, Mr Foret, the Development Cooperation Act of 19 March 2013 provides that, with a view to achieving its general objective of developing and consolidating democracy and the rule of law, Belgian Development Cooperation shall also promote inclusive, equitable and sustainable economic growth. Article 6 expressly provides that Belgian Development Cooperation shall aim in developing countries to finance socio-economic programmes aimed at improving the investment climate to strengthen the local productive capacities of developing countries; support the development of the local private sector, including through credit and capacity-building for small and medium-sized enterprises and micro-entrepreneurs and participation in local enterprises; support fair and sustainable trade and, ultimately, promote their participation in international trade on conditions favourable to their development. With a view to operationalising this regulatory framework, a strategic note "Belgian development cooperation and local private sector: support for sustainable human development" was approved in April 2014. This note defines certain geographical and sectoral strategic choices while clarifying the guidelines for strengthening the local private sector through traditional development channels, but also through the specific tools among which the Belgian Investment Corporation for Developing Countries (BIO), which invests exclusively in the private sector of developing countries and is therefore directly concerned with the reflection on public-private partnerships.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u11	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u12	Mr President, before I ask my question, I would like to welcome the arrival in our committee of Mr Foret, who has already been very productive in his first speech. Mr Minister, UNICEF Belgium has raised various questions about the place of children's rights in Belgian Development Cooperation. Children's rights are no longer considered as a cross-cutting theme, but are classified by the Human Rights Division within a new category of priority themes. According to UNICEF Belgium, the rights of the child must be given attention in every theme and sector where Belgian Development Cooperation is active. There is also evidence that the increase in inequality in the world affects children more than other population groups. In the mid-1980s, older persons were the most affected by inequality. Today, the first victims are families with children and children themselves. The face of poverty has changed considerably to their detriment. Let me conclude with some alarming figures: 250,000 children are being exploited as soldiers in armed conflict. And among them, four out of ten are girls. Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. In practice, how have you integrated this cross-cutting approach to children's rights into your cooperation policy? What child-centred initiatives have been put in place by your Government? What steps are being taken for children in the context of armed conflict? Finally, an objective analysis of the rise in inequalities in the world reveals a failure of the system and calls into question certain policies, particularly in the area of cooperation. How do you think we can address this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u13	Mr President, dear colleague, human rights, including the rights of the child, are indeed one of the priorities of Belgian Development Cooperation, based on the law of 19 March 2013. In order to implement its work in the field of children's rights, the Belgian Cooperation has a strategic note which has been drawn up in collaboration with our civil society partners. This strategic note is still valid because it is based on the Convention on the Rights of the Child. In the immediate future, there is no provision for an instrument such as a specific plan of action on the rights of the child. However, in September 2015 there will be an important summit in New York to set the post-2015 agenda. Children are directly affected by the new sustainable development goals. After this summit, we will consider the need to develop and adapt instruments to ensure that our cooperation is in line with our international commitments. Indeed, Development Cooperation targets the most vulnerable people, including children and young people, as beneficiaries. This action must be made more visible and concrete. The instruments to achieve this are not yet defined. The approach to development cooperation is holistic. Care must be taken to ensure that the instruments do not remove the overall vision to the benefit of specific compartmentalised actions. In addition, a dialogue is being developed with civil society, including the Platform for the Rights of the Child. With this platform, we are thinking about how to improve our practices for the mainstreaming of children's rights in development cooperation. Mr President, two questions have been joined, and I am giving a comprehensive answer. Specifically on Rwanda and Burundi, my trip to these countries dates back to January. I visited the DRC in February. The situation in Burundi has changed significantly since my visit. There will be many questions about this later. In these three countries, where Belgium invests in the education sector, I have strongly stressed respect for human rights, including the rights of children. In countries that are not partners in government cooperation, Belgian Cooperation can act through non-governmental actors, when present, and multilateral partners, taking into account their specific globally recognized mandate. For example, the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), which is a privileged partner for respect for international humanitarian law. It is involved in the protection of children, including child soldiers. A contribution is made annually to the general resources of the ICRC. In Syria, Belgian Cooperation works through humanitarian aid, which focuses on the most vulnerable populations, including women and children. Here are some contributions: - in 2012, one million was allocated to the ICRC for its work in the field of humanitarian law and child protection and one million euros to the World Food Programme (WFP); - In 2013, 1.8 million was allocated to UNICEF for a comprehensive programme to combat malnutrition of child victims of conflict; - in 2014, 3.5 million was allocated to UNICEF for interventions related to the survival of the most vulnerable children. As far as Boko Haram is concerned, Belgian Development Cooperation does not take any specific action. Indeed, development cooperation is not the omnipotent instrument for resolving all types of crisis. The response must be multi-faceted, combining political actions and interventions by specialized actors working within their mandate and discretion. No request for funding has been made to me in this regard. Compared to UNICEF, Belgian Cooperation has selected a limited number of multilateral organizations with which it is developing a partnership. This choice is made in particular on the basis of responses to common priorities. These organizations receive a financial contribution to carry out their mandate. However, the partnership goes well beyond funding. This is the case with UNICEF, which is our main partner in the area of children's rights. UNICEF has a mandate for child protection. Its work is both at the political level, to promote the rights of the child, and at the operational level. The partnership is also based on regular dialogue. For example, Belgium was consulted in the preparation of the Organization's 2014-2017 strategic plan. One of the priority areas is the protection of children, including child soldiers. All UNICEF programmes are subject to approval by the Executive Board. Belgium pays particular attention to programmes implemented in partner countries. Finally, as mentioned above, UNICEF is also an important partner in Belgium's humanitarian assistance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u14	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. I share your view when you say that the approach to children's rights must be holistic and integrated into a comprehensive vision. I am pleased that you share the concerns of UNICEF. The rights of the child must be given special attention in each sector where Belgian Development Cooperation is active. Indeed, while human and women's rights must be defended in a universal manner, the rights of the child must be given special attention. Children are innocent and what is being done to them is sometimes unacceptable. I will come back to you, Minister, after the summit to be held in September, so that you can give me information about Belgium's position.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u15	Questions Nos 3366 and 3615 by Mrs Bellens are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u16	Mr President, Minister, in 2009 an agreement was concluded between the government and the NGO sector by one of your predecessors, Mr Michel. At the time, this agreement could be considered to be fairly unique, as it was the first time that the outcome of consultations between the public authorities and the sector was incorporated into a signed agreement. The current government agreement provides for an evaluation of this Pact within the renewed legal framework of 2014. As stated in the coalition agreement, this evaluation will be carried out in good consultation with the NGO sector, with the objective of achieving more intense and better cooperation and ensuring continuity of operation. Firstly, what is the status of the planned evaluation? Has it already started? If not, can you indicate why not? When do you plan to launch this evaluation? If so, can you give us an update? Secondly, how do you see the further development of this evaluation? Thirdly, what elements of the pact that was concluded in 2009 are in need of revision, as far as you are concerned? And why?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u17	The new regulatory framework of the Belgian cooperation of 2013 and the guidelines laid down in the government agreement and in my policy paper are in line with the agreement signed in May 2009 between the NGOs and my predecessor, the current Prime Minister. The guidelines have remained unchanged, such as less fragmentation of Belgian aid, better complementarity and synergy between the actors, or even closer consultation and closer coordination between the different aid channels. The guidelines also refer to authoritative reference documents, such as the successive peer reviews of the OECD Development Assistance Commission. It goes without saying, therefore, that I will continue along the same lines and strengthen cooperation with NGOs, while ensuring that they work properly. There was no formal evaluation of the agreement to which you refer. However, consultation with the NGO sector and other non-governmental partners is more intense than ever. In the context of the implementation of the 2013 regulatory framework, there is closer consultation with the administration, in particular through the Strategic Consultation Committee and the Technical Consultation Committee. In these bodies, which were set up for this type of initiative and in which I am also represented, this point could be raised. Furthermore, my cabinet is involved in an intense consultation aimed at implementing the government's policies by 2017. It is now the case that one of these consultation forums can carry out the evaluation of the agreement. This evaluation could be carried out in the autumn. Much depends on the evaluation of the commitments made in order to determine what adjustments are needed. However, it is already possible to mention some points arising from the regulatory framework of Belgian cooperation or from the government's guidelines: the opinion of the Policy Coherence Committee, the reduction of the number of partner countries, the new conditions for the recognition of NGOs, a common basic regulation for the different types of non-governmental cooperation actors, strategic consultations at the level of the intervention countries, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u18	I note that there is, of course, consultation with the NGO sector at various levels, but that the item as such has not yet been on the agenda. You yourself said that you reduced the number of partner countries to fourteen, as provided for in the government agreement. It is important to consider how complementarity and synergy can be reflected with these partner countries and the exit partner countries. It is therefore important to put the item on the agenda, because the agreement with Minister Michel at the time stipulated that an NGO could operate in ten countries, up to a maximum of 50 countries for the entire NGO sector in three regions. Will it stay that way or not? The budget provided for under that Pact is also an important element. We are working on a very important process, including the recognition and common context analyses to be completed by 2017. I therefore call for the Pact to be placed on the agenda and for it to be discussed. I am not saying that you will not, but it is important because there are very important points in it which are fundamental to reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u19	You're not the only one interested in that, Mrs. Van Hoof. It seems to me that there is room for a good exchange of views, preferably before the reform has been completed, without us making any illusions that we will decide. Not only with civil society, but also with Parliament, an exchange of views should take place at the appropriate time. I believe that the issue is of sufficient interest to the members of the Committee on External Relations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u20	Minister, wars and armed conflicts have always had a different impact on women than on men. While men are more often directly involved in armed conflicts, women feel the effect of armed conflicts both indirectly, due to difficult and unsafe conditions caused by the war, and directly, as a civilian victim. Moreover, women are not or hardly involved in peace talks and in the preparation of reconstruction. In order to put an end to this situation, the UN Security Council adopted Resolution 1325 by consensus on 31 October 2000. The resolution, entitled 'Women, Peace and Security', aims to promote both the prevention and protection of violence against women and girls and the participation of women in decision-making in the area of peace and security. In order to implement Resolution 1325 in practice, the UN Security Council in 2004 called on all Member States to develop a National Action Plan (NAP) on the subject. Belgium responded to the call by adopting a first NAP 2009-2012. A second NAP was presented to the Council of Ministers on 19 July 2013 and covers the period 2013-2016. The second action plan is divided into six priority objectives: the international normative framework, the integration of the gender dimension in the framework of Resolution 1325, the protection of women and girls against all forms of violence, the participation of women in peace-building processes and peace-building processes, support for the implementation of Resolution 1325 and the National Action Plan, and follow-up, reporting and monitoring. An information session for civil society on the progress of the second NAP 1325 took place on 31 March. This shows that a lot of efforts have already been made, but there is still a lot of work to be done. For example, there are still many objectives for which no action has yet been taken. Minister, how is progress measured on the different lines of action? Is that based on measurable indicators? Is the implementation of the Action Plan coordinated by the various government departments? Who's responsible for this? We're halfway there now. What actions will be taken in 2015 and 2016 to further implement the Action Plan? What funding is attached to this? Fourthly, the objectives of the resolution can also be achieved by sending more women on international missions, proposing more women in positions in international organisations and encouraging other countries to involve women in the negotiations. To what extent does Belgium comply with this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u21	Mrs Pehlivan, the national action plan does indeed provide indicators for each action line. The indicators have been adapted to the areas of competence of each department co-responsible for the Action Plan. The indicators are tailored to the indicators used by the United Nations and the EU and adapted to the intervention domains of the different departments. In this way, our NAP ensures a degree of coherence with the efforts made by the other countries and institutions. Development cooperation will continue the efforts already made under the NAP, in particular in the three focus countries of the NAP, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Mali and Afghanistan. In the DRC, Belgian Development Cooperation has allocated EUR 2 million through its delegated cooperation with the European Union for the Justice Reform Programme, which will be implemented between 2016 and 2018. It is more specifically about the fight against impunity. EUR 3 million will also be allocated to support hospitals and health centres to apply the experience of the Panzihospital with regard to assistance to victims of sexual violence. In addition, Belgium has invested 2 million euros for activities supporting Resolution 1325 by UN Women in the Intermediate Cooperation Programme 2014-2015. In Mali, from the start of the political and humanitarian crisis in 2012, through humanitarian actions, in particular with the International Committee of the Red Cross, Belgium has contributed to better protection of women in the conflict region. In the framework of the Intermediair Cooperation Programme 2015-2017 with Mali, Belgium will cooperate with the national government, in particular on various gender priorities. Firstly, the participation of women in the peace process must be ensured, in accordance with the same UN Resolution 1325. In addition, through various specific funding and multilateral organisations, Belgium will contribute to improving the status of women in Mali and to combating violence against women as a result of conflict or harmful traditional practices, in particular genital mutilation. Belgium has been committed to the civilian efforts in Afghanistan for years due to the conflict and post-conflict situation. Most of our engagement was funded by the budgets of Belgian Development Cooperation and mainly concerned projects on human rights and women's rights. In addition to these funds, development cooperation also has the power to engage in political dialogue. As Deputy Prime Minister, I also represent the government in official bodies. During my presentation to the Security Council on 15 April last in the context of the debate on women, peace and security, I called on the United Nations to take appropriate action against sexual violence in conflict situations. I stated that sexual violence as a weapon of war remains a stain on the conscience of the international community. If we want to maintain our common humanity, it is our duty to put an end to all forms of sexual violence in conflict situations. I also call for women to be involved in the peace processes, particularly in Mali. The Mali peace process in Algiers seems to have missed the opportunity to involve women in the negotiations or to give them a role in implementing a final agreement. The UN Security Council must ensure that women are integrated into such peace negotiations. Women must be part of the solution, I explained there. I stated that Belgium will support the UN action in Mali and that Belgium would draw up the necessary national strategy to combat sexual violence and gender-based violence. I also welcomed the appointment of a personal representative of the President of the DRC for the fight against sexual violence and the recruitment of child soldiers, Mrs Mabunda. The action plan against sexual violence of the Congolese army and the composition of a follow-up committee in the army are also positive elements. The Human Resources Department of the Directorate-General for Development and Humanitarian Aid is managed by the Federal Public Service for Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. Of a total of 143 agents currently employed by the Directorate-General for Development and Humanitarian Aid, 65 are men and 78 are women. As far as the missions are concerned, our FOD encourages women to participate in the course through Basic Generic Training. In the case of equal competences, priority is given to a woman. Half of the participants in the most recent course were women. In addition, Belgium has actively supported better integration of women into UN peacekeeping operations, in particular for decision-making positions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. It happened rather quickly, but I will study the text better. We can give you our full support in what you have listed. I'm following the file closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u23	Minister, a while ago, nine Belgian humanitarian aid organisations in an opinion paper in the De Morgen newspaper denounced the savings in humanitarian aid. The Belgian Government did not spend a third of its humanitarian aid budget last year. The 2014 budget reserved 151 million euros, of which 100 million were spent effectively. The rest stayed on the bill. This is mainly about money intended for medium-term humanitarian programmes, for the inhabitants of the Sahel, the Great Lakes region and Palestine. The failure of Belgium to comply with its commitments has consequences that are felt directly on the ground, on the affected, and on the aid organisations. Without resources, they will increasingly have to choose which victims they can help and which they can not, and will have to pay attention to "sexy" disasters with a short-term perspective without sustainable solutions, because they will be able to raise funds to do so. Such choices cost more money in the long term. The indignation of the aid organizations is therefore great:.The Belgian Government has managed to hold a third of the fire trucks in a year when half of the world is on fire. This is not only a sign of unwillingness to honour agreements made, but also a shocking lack of awareness of what is going on behind our horizons." That is quite clear, Minister. The budget for development cooperation has been under pressure for some time, and so has humanitarian aid, but we can really ask ourselves questions about not even spending the funds we have promised. The Belgian humanitarian NGOs are not asking for more money, but to actually spend what has been promised. Minister, why do you choose not to spend EUR 50 million in humanitarian aid? Can you list how much humanitarian aid Belgium promised per crisis in 2014 and how much of it was actually spent? I would have liked to have been given the reasons for this every time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u24	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 3602 by Mrs Bellens 3601 by Mrs Grovonius.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u25	I have an answer to the three questions. It can only be a more complete answer. It will also be a mix of Dutch and French, because there was also a question from Mrs Grovonius.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u26	The other two colleagues will be very happy about that, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, humanitarian aid consists of four budget lines: humanitarian programmes, contributions to the general resources of international humanitarian organisations, contributions to humanitarian funds and humanitarian projects. The underutilization of 50 million in 2014 concerned the humanitarian programme budget line. Within the latter, multi-year commitments are made to finance interventions by Belgian NGOs and international humanitarian organisations. There are three technical reasons why humanitarian aid programmes were not implemented in 2014. Firstly, there was a lack of a legal instrument, i.e. KBFRs on humanitarian aid that made allocations on the humanitarian programme budget line legally possible during the first five months of the year. The KB dates from 19 April 2014 and was published on 7 May 2014. It has been in operation since 1 June 2014. At the time of the KB's entry into force, Parliament had already been dissolved and the government was in current cases. It is legally impossible to enter into multi-annual commitments in a period of ongoing business. The new government took office on 11 October 2014. As early as 23 October 2014, the government announced a commitment and liquidation stop for reasons of budgetary prudence. Until the end of the year, multiannual commitments were once again impossible. As a result, there were no calls to NGOs for proposals for humanitarian programmes and, as a result, no humanitarian programmes were approved in 2014. In this context, I would like to clarify that no budget is set for each crisis. Humanitarian aid is by definition volatile and urgent and therefore requires rapid and flexible financing, which would be hampered by commitments in advance. That is why most of the funding of humanitarian funds takes place without making demands on the humanitarian crises that we want funded by contributions. This allows these funds to finance the most priority needs. In addition, Belgian humanitarian aid also provides earmarked funding. In 2014, this went to two country-specific humanitarian funds, namely for the DRC and South Sudan, and contributions within the budget line "Humanitarian projects' for the Central African Republic, Syria, Mali and the fight against Ebola. The total amount involved was just over EUR 25 million. I'll give you a brief overview. For the DRC, EUR 8 million, EUR 2.5 million for South Sudan, EUR 4 million for the CAR, EUR 3.5 million for Syria, EUR 0.5 million for Mali and EUR 7 million for the fight against Ebola. The government is bound by the budgetary rule of annuality. If appropriations are not committed before the end of a budgetary year, they cannot be carried forward to the following year. As I have already mentioned, three main technical reasons explain that the budget line for humanitarian programmes has been blocked: the absence of a legal instrument during the first five months of the year; the impossibility of making multiannual commitments in the context of current affairs; and the announcement of the closure of commitments on 23 October in the context of budgetary prudence. These techniques were used last year as well as by previous governments. I was a member of these governments and I can tell you that the techniques were identical. I held a meeting with humanitarian NGOs in my office on March 18. On that occasion, the reasons for underutilization of the 2014 budgets were explained in detail. As stated at the time, these reasons were purely technical. I understand their unease when these technical reasons prevent commitments in times of humanitarian crisis. However, both firms and the administration are required to comply with the statutory budgetary rules. Delay is therefore not the correct word, as in 2014 the administration was unable to commit projects on the budget lines of the programmes, for the technical reasons mentioned above. In 2015, these technical reasons no longer exist, unless the government decided to call a halt again in order to ensure budgetary prudence. There is no urgent budgetary treatment for projects and programmes. If we want to respond to humanitarian crises through these instruments, it will soon take three months before the contributions can be paid. That is precisely why a large part of the humanitarian budget is earmarked for general contributions to humanitarian organisations, so-called core funding, and to flexible funds. This allows humanitarian organisations to intervene immediately in a crisis. These funds will be made available before the crisis appears, which significantly improves the quality of humanitarian aid in terms of predictability and rapid deployment. In 2015, the total budget allocated to humanitarian aid amounts to EUR 150 million. I already allocated $72.75 million in the first quarter. This corresponds to about 50 per cent of the budget. In addition, the Humanitarian Aid Service has launched a programme call for the Belgian NGOs in proportion to EUR 14 million in commitment appropriations. A call is also being launched on the budget line for the Palestinian territories in proportion to EUR 3 million and for humanitarian projects to be allocated to the World Food Programme and UNHCR for the refugee crisis in Burundi and neighbouring countries in proportion to EUR 4 million, which is in preparation. The allocation of programmes for multilateral organisations in proportion to EUR 13 million in commitment appropriations is also in preparation. Finally, an allocation of EUR 1 million is also in preparation for the local Red Cross in Guinea. These last actions already raise the percentage to almost 67 % of clearance appropriations in the first half of 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u28	Mr President, Minister, it is a pity that 50 million people who could have gone to humanitarian aid could not have been allocated under technical conditions. Will it be possible in the future to change that royal decree?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u29	We'll have to look into that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u30	Mr De Vriendt, you are the only brave person here. You will be given the floor immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u31	Mr President, Minister, I suspect that this will also be a bilingual answer. I have a number of questions, Minister, concerning the rather strong language you have used in relation to development cooperation in Burundi. I have a question about the circumstances and how this was communicated to the partner country in question. The context is well known. You have said that our country will not organise a Joint Committee on Development with Burundi if there is a third deadline for the current President. There will therefore be no classical bilateral cooperation programme with the Burundian Government. I have some questions about your communication with the Burundian government. Was this decision already delivered to them? What terminology did you use? Did you actually use the words "third term" or did you refer to the Arusha agreement? We have noticed that the latter is important in this discussion. How is the President, the politicians, civil society and the partner organisations of our Development Cooperation reacting in Burundi? Was there any consultation with the other donors prior to this decision? These consultations are important for a certain degree of coordination. What steps will the other donors take? Are they on our line, or is there a disagreement on the matter? How will you work in concrete terms in what you describe as choosing other forms of cooperation, under a possible third mandate? Will there be shifts? If so, which one? Finally, what financial resources does our country intend to devote to a possible new bilateral cooperation programme? What resources do you intend to use if this programme is not implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u32	Mr President, following human rights violations and violence without self-defence by the Burundian police, I have decided to suspend the project to support the Burundian police. In consultation with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Belgium has also decided to suspend the payment of the second tranche of €2 million for the UNDP project to support the organisation of elections. The current context does not allow for free, inclusive and transparent elections. These two programmes are the only elements of the ongoing 2010-2013 indicative cooperation programme that have been suspended. The remainder of the programme continues to the extent possible given the current situation. Indeed, the current programme is being implemented at a slow pace. The BTC, as well as several NGOs and multilateral actors, have significantly reduced the size of their on-site teams for security reasons. For the future, I have communicated to the Burundian authorities that there would be no classic government programme if President Nkurunziza entered a third term. Indeed, Belgium believes that this third mandate is in violation of the Arusha agreements and that this would undermine the legitimacy of the President and the harmony in Burundi. In order not to penalize the Burundian population, Cooperation would then seek other forms of cooperation to directly support the population and human rights if this mandate were to materialize. For non-governmental and multilateral actors, no action has yet been taken by Belgium. Some multilateral actors and NGOs have decided to evacuate their non-essential staff from Burundi. For the future, it would be primarily the government programme that would be affected by possible measures. Belgium intends to preserve as much as possible the Burundian population from possible sanctions. Individual sanctions must certainly be a priority and Belgium has already voted in favour of such measures through my colleague Minister Reynders. Belgium intends to be part of a common approach with the international community. On 21 May 2015, the Council of Ministers adopted a new list of 14 partner countries in Belgian Development Cooperation. The Council of Ministers has decided to hold Burundi as a partner country. In this way, Belgium wants to remain in solidarity with the Burundian people. However, in the event of a continuing violation of the Arusha agreement, our country will not conclude a conventional bilateral cooperation agreement with the Burundian Government. As with other partner countries, Belgium wants to work with the Burundian Government to improve the human rights situation and, on the other hand, to promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth. However, Belgian Development Cooperation has a forward-looking perspective. Countries wishing to move forward in these two areas can count on support. If it goes in the wrong direction, Belgium will review its cooperation. Belgium remains particularly concerned about the situation in Burundi following the announcement of President Nkurunziza's candidacy for a third term of office. The Arusha agreement is an important source of stability and is the basis for the development of Burundi. The President's decision to abdicate a third term of office is a violation of the Arusha agreement and creates a deep division in Burundi's society. Since President Nkurunziza's decision to re-enlist, for a third mandate, it has been argued daily in the country. Dozens of people have already died. A failed coup took place. A leading opposition leader was murdered and more than a hundred thousand civilians fled to the surrounding countries. This has sufficiently demonstrated that non-compliance with the Arusha agreement leads to great instability and undermines the country's development. I delivered that decision by letter to the Burundian Minister for Foreign Affairs and Development Cooperation. In my letter I referred both to the third term and to the Arusha agreement. I haven't received a response yet. I have heard from the Belgian ambassador that the Burundian Minister for Foreign Affairs has received and read the letter. Both Belgian and Burundian civil society organisations have expressed their support for Belgian attitudes and decisions. There are intense diplomatic contacts on Burundi. At European level, the European Member States coordinate their attitude towards Burundi. However, it should be noted that there are few bilateral partners with cooperation programmes with Burundi. Over the past few weeks and months I have had intense consultations with my Dutch colleague. During my visit to Washington in mid-April, I also consulted with the team of the American Secretary of State, John Kerry. My colleague Mr Reynders, with whom I have very regular discussions, raised the issue at the EU Foreign Affairs Council. During this difficult period, Belgium remains in solidarity with the Burundian people and expresses its hope that President Nkurunziza will give up a third term of office. A third term of office would seriously undermine the legitimacy of the Burundian Government and would make it impossible for the Belgian Government to organise the next year's Joint Committee on Development Cooperation with Burundi and to conclude a classic bilateral cooperation programme. In this case, Belgium will opt for other forms of cooperation, with a dual objective in mind: on the one hand, to improve the fate of the population and, on the other hand, to strengthen democratic forces. Direct support for the population is a priority, but if we want to develop in the long term, we need a government that can work together in a structural way for the development process. The other forms of cooperation with a third mandate still need to be fleshed out. I asked the Belgian embassy in Bujumbura to make proposals on this. The financial resources which Belgian Development Cooperation would use for a new bilateral cooperation programme or an alternative programme have not yet been determined.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I have a few comments to make on your reply. You say you haven't received a response from the Burundian government. I look forward to that reaction, because it may be interesting to see to what extent it intends to address some of our country's concerns. In any case, it is important that the dialogue continues and that channels remain open. Coordination with other donors in the EU and even with multilateral donors remains very important in such actions. We support your policy to use the incentive tranche, if necessary, as long as it is phased and conditional. You want to shift policy to the fragile states. In many fragile states, however, human rights are also under pressure. If we set up important bilateral programmes with fragile states, then we cannot immediately, from day one, close the fence, so to speak. A phased and sensible action is therefore important in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u34	Minister, the task of the Special Evaluator will soon be completed, or perhaps it will already be. I don't have any information on the subject. I think it is important that we take a look at the Special Evaluation Service. Indeed, in the report on Belgian Development Cooperation for 2012-2013, the Special Evaluator warned in May 2014 about the consequences of limiting its resources. This annual report was discussed at the committee meeting before Easter, together with the Special Evaluator. It is interesting to read on page 59 of the report: "There is a need for a clear signal from Parliament to ensure the continued existence of a competent and independent evaluation function in development cooperation." Given the current status and context of the function of the Special Evaluator for Development Cooperation, this remark is highly topical. So, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Firstly, what is your position on the future of the Special Evaluation Service? What are your priorities for the future? Do you recognise that it is desirable to ensure the independent evaluation function within Development Cooperation? Secondly, the Royal Decree applicable to the Special Evaluation Service states that the internal evaluation systems of governmental and non-governmental actors must be certified. This task was assigned to the Special Evaluator. How will this certification be carried out? Who's gonna do it? What will be the role of the Special Evaluator in this? What criteria and rules will be used for certification? Is the certification given once or should it be repeated?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u35	I am convinced that it is important to carry out a systematic evaluation of every intervention we finance. My administration has developed a strategy to put this vision into practice. I approved it on April 23rd. All interventions should be evaluated in order to know the direct results and the impact. In recent years, the Development Cooperation sector has evolved from a situation in which the Special Evaluator had to carry out all this evaluation work of individual interventions, to a situation in which this responsibility is taken up by the actor himself. This monitoring and evaluation, as mentioned in the sector, is in principle done by the actor's independent internal monitoring and evaluation capacity certified by the Special Evaluator. The final evaluation of interventions will be carried out by independent parties in order to ensure the objectivity of this last evaluation. As our first limited analysis indicates that the existing monitoring and evaluation systems of the actors are still not sufficiently strong at the moment, a transitional period will be provided for in which the assessments are carried out by a third party. This transitional period will be limited to a maximum of five years and may be shorter. Furthermore, the Special Evaluator will be responsible for carrying out policy evaluations at a level that exceeds the individual interventions assessed on the basis of actor's own monitoring, as quoted above. In this way, the Special Evaluator will be given the opportunity to fully fulfil his or her role in assessing the medium- and long-term development cooperation policy and to report on this to both the parties involved, Parliament and myself as ministers. As for the recruitment of the new Special Evaluator, I asked my administration for advice on necessary competences. These are added to the concerns of the previous Special Evaluator about his own function profile. The profile was not fundamentally modified, but certain accents, for example the management competences and the experience with the evaluations themselves, were highlighted. These adjustments and the fact that the budget of the Special Evaluator, which he himself assessed in his testimony before the Committee, is not affected, must ensure the operation of the Special Evaluation Service. I approved the administration's advice and the recruitment follows the usual channels. The place of evaluation is clearly defined in the 2013 Development Cooperation Act. Each actor working together shall be deemed to have a system of follow-up and evaluation. All actors should follow the DAC principles in their evaluation approach and any intervention financed should be evaluated. Certification of these own monitoring and evaluation systems of the actors is an important task of the Special Evaluator. Article 33 of the Act provides that the rules for such certification must be laid down in a royal decree. I received a first proposal of possible approach from the DBE. This needs to be further developed now. However, I can tell you that this will not be a one-off exercise. Once certified, the output of the monitoring and evaluation systems and their functioning will be critically assessed on a regular basis to ensure their quality. In addition to the responsibility of each actor for its own evaluations, it is essential to be able to carry out external evaluations from the perspective of the government. It is not so much about evaluations of individual interventions, but about the wider impact of Belgian development cooperation in a country or in a sector. This is the main long-term mission of the Special Evaluation Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that a new profile has been written and that the Special Evaluator, as it exists today, and the royal decree on this matter will not be changed. That was not clear to me because it had not yet been said that we would proceed in the same way. That is important, also for Parliament, because those reports are delivered to us too. It is also important that this evaluation is carried out independently. At some point the question arose as to whether these services would be outsourced to different evaluators, but I have now understood that the service remains as it exists today and that it will carry out the tasks imposed by the Royal Decree, such as certification. I have also understood that this certification will not be a one-off and that this will be followed up regularly. The evaluation is important, albeit as a whip effect for the actors involved, so that they work and are properly evaluated and monitored.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u37	Minister, in early 2015, the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists published an article on the distressing situation in Ethiopia. Indigenous people were violently driven out of their country in a campaign of forced deportations. That government campaign proved to be operationally linked to a project funded by the World Bank, according to a report from its own internal inspection panel. It now appears that the article on Ethiopia was merely the harbinger of more revelations about abuses. Over the past week, the ICIJ has exposed important concerns in the World Bank's resettlement policy. The consortium calculated on the basis of the World Bank's internal documents that an estimated 3.4 million people worldwide have been physically or economically displaced since 2004 as a result of projects funded by the World Bank. The victims of what the World Bank calls involuntary resettlement were forced to leave their homes, their land was taken away or their livelihoods were damaged. The actual number is probably even higher, as the bank does not always count and often underestimate the number of people affected by its projects. Moreover, the World Bank has regularly broken its own rules over the past decade. The organisation often leaves behind to thoroughly assess projects in advance, so that communities would be protected, and it often does not know what happens to people after they have been driven out of their homes. In addition, in many cases it continued to do business with governments that blatantly violated the rights of their citizens. An additional serious problem is the discussion currently taking place within the World Bank about the revision of the safeguards, a set of guarantees for the financing of projects. Under pressure from certain countries, there is a tendency to reduce the quality of the safeguards. The latest draft of the bank's new policy, released in July 2014, would leave governments more room to ignore bank standards and make decisions on whether or not to protect local communities. If this draft comes through effectively, the poorest and most vulnerable will be even less protected in the future. This discussion is also very important for Belgium. Although our country is not directly affected by major projects financed by the World Bank, there is a lot of tax money flowing towards it, and at the level of government, Belgium has a strong interest in the presidency of an electoral group. That is why, in the debate on the revision of the safeguards, we must play a real leading role and exert strong pressure within our electoral group for stricter protection measures for the poorest and the weakest. Minister, is Belgium following the complaints lodged with the World Bank inspection panel, as well as the subsequent reports? I would like to know your response to that. How are the maps internationally related to the security guards? Which countries want stricter safeguards and therefore better protection and which countries do not? Can you explain the Belgian position on the revision of the safeguards? Other countries have already made their views public on the revision of the safeguards, but we have not yet. When will that happen? What views did Belgium take at the recent Spring World Bank meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u38	Mr President, Mrs Pehlivan, first of all I would like to say that the succession of the World Bank falls within the competence of the FPS Finance and Finance Minister, although in close consultation with the Directorate-General for Development and Humanitarian Aid. On the basis of this cooperation, I can inform you that Belgium is closely following discussions on the World Bank's resettlement policy, both through the Belgian representatives in the Belgian electoral group at the World Bank in Washington and through the competent administration of the International and European affairs of the FPS Finance. The World Bank's Involvement Policy is regularly the subject of a thorough review by the Bank's services. The most recent evaluation took place in May 2012 and June 2014. Following the recommendations of this evaluation, the World Bank recognised a number of shortcomings in its policy, including on risk analysis and monitoring of resettlement projects. The bank then presented an in-depth action plan on its resettlement policy. The Belgian representatives in Washington are following the implementation of this action plan in a critical but constructive manner. However, a number of important comments should be made with regard to the ICIJ study to which you refer. There is no concrete proof that 3.4 million people would have been displaced as a result of projects co-financed by the World Bank. The report makes no distinction between project-infected people, which relates to anyone who suffers to a greater or lesser extent, and often to a very limited extent, from the project and the much more limited group of people for whom resettlement proves to be necessary. In addition, it ignores the fact that the World Bank's resettlement policy is just aimed at providing compensation and assistance to the affected persons. Developing countries, and especially emerging economies, generally insist on less stringent social and environmental safeguards, the so-called safeguards. For example, some countries oppose the inclusion of the International Labour Organisation's Core Labour Standards and advocate an alternative approach to the recognition of indigenous peoples. These countries claim that the safeguards cause unnecessary delays and additional costs, including through the studies prior to a project that are imposed. Most developed countries, including the countries of the European Union, do not want the safeguards to be watered down and insist on extending the safeguards, including on Core Labour Standards, climate, gender and human rights. They call for a more comprehensive risk analysis and better monitoring of the effective application of the safeguards. [[In summary, the Belgian position on safeguards means that we are working for, firstly, the non-watering of safeguards, secondly, the recognition of the importance of social inclusion, including human rights issues and non-discrimination; thirdly, the reference to some of the standards accepted by the UN, such as the FAO International Code of Conduct on Pesticide Management; fourthly, a better risk assessment and a revised risk classification, with the possibility of modification in the course of the project implementation; fifthly, the inclusion of a binding and flexible Environmental and Social Commitment Plan; sixthly, the inclusion of the principle of Free, Prior and Informed Consent for the indigenous population concerned; seventhly, the introduction of a Grievance Redress System prior to the inspection panel; eighthly, the extension of the safeguards with a number of new themes such as Core Labour Standards, Gender and Landrights, Climate Change and Human Rights; and finally, a better implementation of more efficient procedures with regard to safeguards and better supervision by the bank.]] Since the start of the revision of the safeguards in 2012, the services of the Minister of Finance have organised regular meetings with civil society. The theme of the safeguards in the review process was always on the agenda of these meetings. Civil society was therefore regularly informed about the state of play regarding the evolution of discussions on the safeguards. The safeguards were not on the agenda of the spring meeting of the World Bank and the IMF, but were occasionally discussed in the margins; for example, I spoke to Vice-President Joachim von Amsberg about this. In the written statement of the Belgian electoral group for the Development Committee, the theme was also discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u39	Minister, I have kept to the fact that, in cooperation with the EU, you will not admit to relaxing the safeguards and that you will even impose stricter measures. I can fully support you in that. These expropriations often happen in our partner countries, and we have a lot to say about this in the light of cooperation. By the way, by reducing the number of partner countries, we will deepen it further. That is in the interests of the people. I can imagine governments wanting to relax the safeguards. We also know the reasons behind this. It is important that we, together with Europe and in view of our impact on the World Bank, do not give in to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u40	Minister, this question was drawn up last month and is therefore a little dated. At the end of April large parts of Nepal were wiped off the map. More than 6,000 people didn't survive the earthquake. In the beginning, because of this force eruption of nature, many people had no access to drinking water or any vital good. Originally, one and a half million people needed food aid that did not reach them or was not available to them. Work in the longer term is just as important as the short term. The reconstruction of Nepal will require coordinated multi-actor cooperation. Belgium can play an important role in this, given the presence of the Red Cross Flanders and Cunina in Nepal. The Belgian efforts in the short and long term are the subject of my question. Firstly, can you explain what the current Belgian contribution has been on emergency aid to Nepal? What initiatives are still being taken? Which partners have been involved and in what way have you used their expertise and experience? Secondly, in the long term, the reconstruction and structural development of Nepal must be fully exploited. What is the role of Belgium in this? Has this been discussed at European level? Thirdly, we have already provided structural assistance through multilateral actors. How is this going to continue? What are the accents in that? Is structural aid being increased? What contributions have been made so far to structural aid organisations active in the area concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u41	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on 25 April a terrible earthquake struck Nepal. The Belgian government then reacted by sending a team of B-FAST to the site with the results we know. I will not go back to the debate that has already taken place on the assessment of the B-FAST mission. However, I would like to hear from you, Minister, about what Belgium has done since then to help the people of Nepal, after the emergency of the first days has passed. Indeed, the needs did not disappear a week after the earthquake. Even though everyone is no longer rushing to Kathmandu airport, even though the media are no longer poaching Nepal, thousands of people today live in appalling conditions and still need shelter, food, water, medical care and, above all, reconstruction assistance. It is obvious that aid to Nepal must be able to spread over a significant period of time, if we really want to help this country get back on its feet. Minister, who is providing the relief that is in question, a little more than a month after the earthquake that ravaged this country? What is the support offered by Belgium today in an indirect way? I understand that there is no direct aid from our country. Have we sent teams to Nepal through international organizations and NGOs to help Nepal in a more structural way in the medium to long term? Do we send material, equipment, financial resources to international organizations or NGOs active in Nepal? More generally, what efforts are being made by Belgium or by the European Union and/or the international community in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u42	Mr Dallemagne, your question is yesterday. My answer is in Dutch. We didn't have time to translate it because we received a lot of questions at the last minute. I have several humanitarian aid instruments available through four budget lines, as I explained in the previous question. Firstly, there are programmes that allow more long-term support in priority areas of humanitarian cooperation, namely the Great Lakes region, the Sahel region and Palestine. Secondly, I have flexible funds, which are allocated in advance to international humanitarian organisations, so that they can react immediately when a crisis arises. At the beginning of the budgetary year, I made EUR 35 million available for flexible funds. Thus, the Central Emergency Response Fund of OCHA immediately released EUR 50 million for the crisis in Nepal. That amount therefore includes a partial Belgian contribution. A third instrument is the contribution to the overall resources of the Red Cross, OCHA, UNHCR and UNRWA. The last instrument is the projects for sudden crises up to 18 months. My administration monitors the situation in Nepal. The current challenges appear to be mainly of a logistical nature. They are linked to access restrictions, for example in the area of airport use. Without wishing to lose sight of immediate emergency operations, it is certainly also necessary to start reconstruction activities. If there are still urgent, unfunded needs, I will review the situation and, if necessary, order additional funding through that budget line. Equally important is what Belgium has done in the past. In 2012, Belgian Humanitarian Aid funded a project by the Red Cross Flanders to preposition wash kits at the Nepalese Red Cross, giving six thousand people access to clean water through reusable ceramic filters. During the course of that project, training was also given to the Nepalese Red Cross for wash and logistics activities and they were taught how to react in case of a disaster. These wash kits and associated training are now extremely useful and are a good example of financing in the context of disaster preparation. Structural bilateral aid is bound by the choices of the partner countries of governmental cooperation. However, Nepal is not one of them, because the regions I wish to support as a priority are in line with my policy letter, North and West Africa, as well as the Great Lakes region. Indirectly, Belgium is, of course, contributing to the reconstruction of Nepal, through its support to various international organisations to which contributions are paid annually, including the World Bank, the EU and the United Nations institutions. Nepal is currently part of the partner countries of non-governmental cooperation. In Nepal, three non-governmental actors currently have a programme financed by the DGD. The figures for 2014-2016 are as follows: World Solidarity 190 000 euros, the Institute of Tropical Medicine 600 000 euros and the Red Cross Flanders 920 000 euros. For the future, so funding from 2017, no decision has yet been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u43	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u44	Minister, thank you for your answer. What strikes me is the lack of visibility that we have on what is being done in Nepal and in relation to its needs. It would be useful if the Belgian Government continued to follow this matter closely and, together with its partners, NGOs, and indirect actors in cooperation, which could be undertaken to alleviate the suffering of the Nepalese people. Attention must be paid to the dire situation that the people of Nepal are going to experience in the coming months. I am counting on you to have a clearer vision than we have today on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u45	Mr Minister, my question was tabled at the beginning of May. At that time there was still a reduction in the number of partner countries from 18 to 15. In the meantime, it's one less. On 12 March you indicated that one of the countries affected by Ebola could well become a new partner country in Belgian development cooperation. In the meantime, we know it's Guinea. We've been active there with the B-Life lab for a few months. I read in your statement that we would like to focus on health care in particular. You are really arguing the Ebola crisis as an argument for making Guinea a partner country. I wonder to what extent that is sufficiently structural. A partner country and bilateral cooperation mean, of course, that we are working there in a very sustainable, deep-rooted way, preferably in the long term, so that we do not have to switch partner countries again in a few years' time. How do you justify that choice? How can you account for the fact that you are mainly relying on the Ebola crisis to establish a bilateral partner relationship with Guinea? What is our added value in such countries, where we actually have little experience? Of course, we can always offer technical capabilities, for example in terms of structural strengthening of health systems after the first humanitarian phase. However, getting out of an Ebola crisis requires more than that. Developing a full bilateral relationship with Guinea requires, of course, that we acquire knowledge, including knowledge of the country's political economy, that confidence is built between the state and the citizen and that a good relationship is built with the government. I think you understand the point of my question. You have argued above all on the basis of the Ebola crisis. Is that structural enough to establish such a bilateral partner relationship with Guinea?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u46	Mr Minister, my question was also put a while ago. In the meantime, you have already announced which countries we will no longer cooperate with and which two new countries will join. The Development Cooperation Act of 19 March 2013 also provides for some criteria for the choice of partner countries. In this respect, we are thinking of the degree of poverty and inequality of the partner country, the comparative advantage of Belgian Development Cooperation, the efforts made by the partner country for its socio-economic development and for good governance and respect for human rights, the relative importance of Belgian Development Cooperation in the partner country in terms of volume and division of tasks between donors. Belgium seeks to be one of the main donors. However, these criteria do not indicate the importance of each criterion. I would therefore like to know how you see it. What criterion did you use to exclude countries from the group of partner countries? That also has to do with the question about Guinea. Have you applied the same criterion for all countries or are it different from one country to another? I also did not hear anything about the coordination with other donor countries, just with the partner countries. Is that what happened? If so, how? OECD/DAC research on the division of labour between donors shows that too much is based on donor logic in concentrating the number of partners. I am thinking, for example, of savings. The needs of partner countries are not sufficiently assessed on the basis of scientific analyses. How is this addressed in Belgian Development Cooperation? Are there any criteria other than those enshrined in the law? Were there any other criteria used? Can you give us any explanation? Due to the deletion of some countries as partners and the inclusion of two countries, Burkina Faso and Guinea, a thorough exit strategy needs to be developed, and new programmes should be set up for the new countries. It will therefore not be the most obvious period for bilateral cooperation. After all, it is difficult to conclude something and at the same time to start a new cooperation. How will you deal with that? The fourth management contract of the BTC decided to link the management costs of the BTC to turnover. This could be a negative incentive for development cooperation, especially in the case of ill-thought-out use of resources in the complex situation of start-up and closure. There will be a transition period with over 18 fourteen partner countries. Will you change the legal provisions for that transitional period until 2017?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u47	My question specifically concerns the exit strategy for the partner countries Peru, Bolivia, South Africa, Mozambique, Algeria and Vietnam. Of course, there are also transitional measures in the 2013 Act. For example, exit programmes of up to four years are possible. The fourth management contract between Belgium and the BTC also requires the BTC to propose an exit action plan. Mr President, first of all, can you tell us how long the current programmes are going to be for each exit country? Secondly, are the exit programmes at the top of the current programmes, or is there also a transition in this area? Thirdly, has the BTC been commissioned to draft an Exit action plan? What do you think the action plans should look like? What framework is the BTC provided for this? Fourthly, what does the exit programme mean for non-governmental cooperation actors?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u48	Mr. President, Minister, on May 21, the government announced a reduction in the number of partners in our bilateral cooperation from 18 to 14. In 15 years, we will have gone from 25 to 18, then 14 countries. Geographically, our ambition is being reduced. All means are thus concentrated on Africa, with the exception of Palestine, and Belgium withdraws completely from Latin America and Asia. Minister, I have already raised these issues with you on a topical issue three weeks ago. But given the importance of this decision, which reorients much of our bilateral cooperation, it was necessary to come back to committee in order to hear you in more detail on this issue. First, how did the indicators weigh in the choices that were made? Has there been any consultation with our current partners? How did they react? What prior consultation has been carried out with the European Union? If only for budgetary reasons, why stop some programmes and partnerships that have sometimes proved successful and worked well? Special cases also raise questions. After leaving from 2003 to 2015, we return to Burkina Faso. What are the reasons for this return? Is this not a problem of continuity, stability and predictability in our choices vis-à-vis our local interlocutors? Moreover, Guinea is in addition to our partner countries. This country was hit hard by Ebola. Is it this criterion that justified his return to the list? What do we intend to do in these two countries? What will be our added value there? More fundamentally, Minister, we have already discussed this. You have not taken sufficient account of new issues, new developments in cooperation and new political will, including: - countries emerging from the war that need to be helped to rebuild (Afghanistan); - countries that are opening up, democratizing but still fragile (Tunisia, Burma); - countries facing destabilizing threats (again Tunisia, Mali); - countries facing migration problems (Tunisia or Libya); - countries facing the effects of global warming. In this sense, are not your choices in contradiction, at least in part, with the government agreement which stresses the importance of focusing on "post-conflict" areas, countries having an impact on migratory flows, fragile countries or attention to the problems of terrorism, climate, peace and stability? I can understand that a series of financial resources are being concentrated on the poorest countries, as you have said, but should we not also have reoriented our bilateral cooperation in favour of a number of "global public goods", a more thematic approach to certain problems, apart from this traditional country-by-country approach? I am thinking in particular of the case of certain States which have been removed from the list of partner countries because they no longer meet our criteria in terms of gross domestic product, but where there are still serious problems and with which we could have continued cooperation in other ways. These are, for example, Algeria or South Africa, where significant inequalities or fragility persist. In conclusion, does this decision not conflict with the new global partnership strategy that is being developed around Sustainable Development Goals? Is this not a premature or, at the very least, very incomplete decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u49	Mr President, on the same subject, I would like to recall what my colleagues have said. The Government has decided to increase the number of foreign countries that will now benefit from Belgian Development Cooperation from eighteen to fourteen. This aid will focus almost exclusively on Africa. I agree with my colleague, Mr Dallemagne, because, in the end, despite two incoming countries, the number will actually decrease and will be very concentrated on one region. We can understand the choice of this concentration on these least developed countries, but – but this is another problem – the Belgian government has also reduced the list of partner organisations for its multilateral cooperation (UNICEF, WHO, FAO, etc.).). However, some countries are developing at high speed, but this development does not benefit all. In these countries, the gap is widening and NGO support for different population groups, workers, women and children is one of the most effective ways to combat inequality. Mr Minister, on the basis of what criteria, has the government selected the countries that will now benefit from Belgian Development Cooperation? I imagine that this is not the only criterion of poverty, that of the least developed countries. Why has the number of partners fallen so much? What are the alternatives for countries that have not been taken up? Do you intend to support NGOs and their action in developing countries not affected by the partnership? To what extent and by what selection criteria?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u50	Mr President, a debate has already taken place in plenary on the criteria used and their origin. I'm not going to start this discussion again. I will simply tell you that the criteria set out in the law were used and that the DGD's detailed evaluation was used. The government agreement provides for a reduction in the number of partner countries. These are two geographical regions where poverty and instability are greatest. It is the following reflection: where can we have the greatest impact with the public resources that we use, and which we ultimately get from the population? Finally, we selected 14 countries, seven in North and West Africa, namely Benin, Burkina Faso, Guinea, Mali, Morocco, Niger and Senegal, and six in the Great Lakes region, namely Burundi, the DRC, Mozambique, Uganda, Rwanda and Tanzania, and one outside Africa, namely Palestine. As I said, there are two new partner countries: Guinea and Burkina Faso. Six countries disappear from the list. Eleven of the 14 partner countries belong to the category of least developed countries. Eight out of fourteen are considered fragile countries. The decision to retain only 14 countries is motivated by the desire to increase the impact of development policy. Belgium's development cooperation aims to concentrate on a limited number of countries, where we can make the difference and achieve results and where the needs are by far the greatest. The selection of fourteen countries leaves the possibility, if the government so wishes, of selecting a 15th partner country at a later stage. In this way, we retain a certain degree of flexibility. There were quite a few questions about the two new partner countries, Guinea and Burkina Faso. Burkina Faso is part of a geographical cluster in North and West Africa and is congruent with Mali and Niger, two existing partner countries. In this country, the population has recently driven out a dictator and a process of democratization has been launched. This political revolution deserves the full attention and support of Belgium. Supporting this country in its social and democratic development is now part of Belgian development policy. Guinea is part of the geographical cluster of North and West Africa. Guinea is one of the most fragile and poorest countries in the region. It is often classified as what is called an aid orphan. This is one of the countries with relatively little aid compared to other countries. It is a country with a lot of potential, but so far very little interest from partner countries. There has been a process of democratization there since 2010. Belgium has been very committed to combating the Ebola crisis. Now that Guinea and the international community are getting a grip on the Ebola epidemic, the reconstruction of these countries needs to be considered. Mr De Vriendt, you are asking whether this is sufficiently structural. I think we should assume that if we do nothing about the reconstruction of Guinea today, something else will become structural, namely the Ebola crisis. If we see how the Ebola crisis has completely destroyed that country, we must today make the transition from humanitarian aid to reconstruction. If the necessary reconstruction efforts are not made today, especially in the area of health systems, then I fear that we will face these crises in a structural way, once every few years. I intend to organise a seminar for both Burkina Faso and Guinea in the first half of September, which will invite all organisations which have either experience of these countries or are already active or can respond to the development challenges that these two countries face. After these two seminars, we will have a better idea of what we will do more specifically in those countries. In the meantime, we are already in contact with these two countries. Their ambassadors have already been to my cabinet for the first talks and even before the summer recess I meet the presidents of both countries. I hope to be able to make concrete agreements with both countries within the year on cooperation programmes in order to launch concrete interventions within the year. This is already the subject of discussions with the BTC. Finally, six countries are disappearing from the list, and I am replying in particular to Mrs Van Hoof's questions. For those countries, the 2013 Act on Belgian Development Cooperation provides for exit scenarios of up to four years. In each of these countries, discussions will be held on how to complete and consolidate current interventions. During that exit phase, funds may be reserved for each of these countries for the grant programme and the Expertise Fund. The management contract between the Belgian State and the Belgian Investment Company for Developing Countries will be amended so that BIO can continue to support the local private sector in each of these exit countries. Additional budgets are not intended to be made available during this exit phase. Four years doesn't seem too short to me. In each of these countries, the exit phase may not last four years. Four years brings us to 2019. Only in Vietnam will the agreed interventions run until 2020. We will have to discuss this with Vietnam. In all other countries, the agreed interventions will end in 2019 at the latest. After the exit phase we will, of course, carry out an impact analysis in those six countries. The exit strategies concern only government cooperation, it is not the entire Belgian development cooperation that is phasing out in these countries, but only one instrument of this cooperation. It is important that the other instruments and channels of Belgian development cooperation remain in place in these countries and continue to be financed as such, including those involved in non-governmental cooperation, economic and university cooperation, institutional actors such as the FVOB and the APEFE, the scientific institutions and also the cities and municipalities. In each exit scenario, the further presence of the other channels and actors of Belgian Development Cooperation will be described and an integrated approach will be pursued. This should provide the basis for further diplomatic and economic relations. The programmes of non-governmental cooperation actors will be subsidised in these countries according to the same modalities as in the partner countries. That too was decided by the Council of Ministers on 21 May, and that is an important element. The choice of the 14 partner countries of government cooperation and of the six exit countries therefore has no impact on the actors of non-governmental cooperation. It is true that discussions are currently being held between these actors and my administration and my cabinet on limiting the list of partner countries in non-governmental cooperation. At present, this list is 52 countries, but more than 80% of all non-governmental interventions are already taking place in about 25 countries. I therefore hope that we will soon be able to agree with the non-governmental actors on less geographical fragmentation and a more integrated approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has indicated that he must leave us at 12:20. I would ask that the replies be kept brief. I would also like to ask you a question, Minister. It would be good if we could deal with all the questions before the recess and, if possible, plan an exchange of views on the major yards you are working on. I refer to Mrs Van Hoof's question on reforms in the NGO sector. I have also read Mr Pehlivan's question. There are rumors about thorough reforms that would be underway in the department of DGD. Without us having the illusion that we are deciding on this, it would be a good idea to have an exchange of views on this matter. It is up to the government and the majority to decide, but it would be good to hold a debate and debate on this in the context of the constructive atmosphere in which we work together. I give the floor to Mr De Vriendt for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u52	Mr. Secretary, I'm not looking for a polemic. Of course, I share your concern that we should work on the reconstruction of Guinea after the Ebola crisis. Of course, we are also in favour of aid. However, many instruments are possible for this. In my opinion, however, the Ebola crisis in a particular country is not a good enough reason to start a bilateral partner relationship with that country. Nor do I know within the same logic whether a political revolution in a particular country, as in Burkina Faso, is sufficient reason to start a bilateral partner relationship. After all, a political revolution can happen again in the coming years. In your argument, which I read in your press release, we must look for more objective arguments, such as the degree of poverty. You know as well as I do that starting a bilateral partner relationship takes a few years before it is at full speed. You yourself said that an exit strategy would take four years. At that time, of course, there could be another humanitarian crisis or a health crisis or a political upheaval. It is therefore wiser to point out in your motivation objective factors, which are also there for clarity in Guinea.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u53	Minister, cooperation with new countries and an exit for other partner countries. For the two new partner countries, you are already in contact with the ambassadors and the President, but perhaps you should also contact the NGOs working there. In this way we can be informed about the projects that will be set up there. It is also interesting to know how the exit you are preparing can be followed further. For one country, that's one year, for another it's four years. Of course, that's a long time. As the honourable Member said, a great deal can happen in many countries in those four years. I believe that Parliament should be kept informed. As far as the additional countries are concerned, there are now 14. Who opened the door to a 15th country? What criteria will be used to include an additional country as a new partner country?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is clear that a revision of the Pact is necessary for NGOs. This must be put on the agenda as a matter of urgency. We need to look at how many countries they remain active in to replace the pact with another one. You also said earlier that this should be on the agenda. So that's obvious. It is also clear that you are not going to a containment in the exit countries. The exit strategy is laid down in the law. This is a period of up to four years. That period is already starting. This means that the current programmes are now being revised. Are the ongoing projects being stopped? How am I supposed to imagine that? Are they moving on? It is not an obvious case for some projects. Will the BTC be ordered to do so? That wasn't said here either. If there are new cases, it will only be fairs and such, possibly also via BIO. However, what happens to the ongoing projects in the exit strategy? That's the question. Can you clarify that further?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u55	This depends on the dialogue with partner countries. If they want, we can rephase or reorient things. If they want to maintain the current phase, so can we.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u56	So it depends on a dialogue with the partner countries, in cooperation with the BTC, I suppose.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u57	Minister, thank you for your answer. You will not be surprised to hear that I remain convinced that this reflection on our partner countries should have been part of a more comprehensive reflection on our cooperation. Today's discussion of the SDGs, this new global partnership, shows that, at a time when other European countries have already adapted their arrangements to this new international context – we had hearings to that effect yesterday – we have reduced our countries of concentration on bases that can be understood, including the fragility of countries, but we have not integrated this into a global effort and a global vision towards the new challenges of cooperation. I am very surprised, for example, to see how little our cooperation is mobilised with regard to the serious problems facing Europe at its margins. It is a tool that we do not mobilize enough in relation to contemporary issues. I hope that we will have a more comprehensive strategy for all of these issues in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u58	Mr President, Minister, indeed, the debate has already taken place on the selection criteria determining the countries with which we cooperate. However, I stress that the work of NGOs in countries in difficulty is fundamental. As a reduction is planned, attention will have to be paid to the selection criteria, to the evaluation, in order to continue in the most optimal way to help these NGOs to carry out the remarkable work they perform, for most of them, in the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u59	Mr President, I would like to respond to Mr Dallemagne's statement that our decision is not in line with current developments. That's not right! The texts circulated today in the context of the preparatory meetings for the International Conference on Financing for Development to be held in New York in early July are clearly in that direction. With regard to official development assistance, it was pointed out that more needed to be done towards the least developed countries. The 0.7 per cent was reconfirmed, but for the first time it was said that in the short and medium term it would have to change to 0.15 and 0.2 per cent for the least developed countries. That's exactly what we're doing! We cannot therefore say that we are against the evolution of sustainable development goals. This has become the subject of discussions, even within NGOs: what more can be done in the least developed countries, seeing that aid is declining? This is the heart of the debate! Similarly, digital becomes a priority for our country, especially when we discuss sustainable development goals. When you say that we do not take into account the crisis in the Mediterranean, I would point out that our country is among the most active in the Sahel, where most refugees come from. We must not forget that in 2012 we were one of the first States to promote programmes in Tunisia and Egypt. I can understand your approach, but there is no justification for what you're saying. It cannot be argued that Belgian development aid is deployed in isolation and without integrating the next fifteen years. It's just the opposite.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u60	You're responding to some of these new issues. I'm not saying you're in conflict with that part of the stakes. But we were told, again yesterday, and on several occasions, that the question of financial flows is no longer fundamental and decisive in the new conception of sustainable development goals. However, we remain totally focused on this issue: official development assistance, financial flows, the North and the South. I am not questioning it as such, but I think that we have not sufficiently placed it in a comprehensive strategic framework, in relation to a whole series of issues. I regret, for example, that we are withdrawing from Algeria, one of the few Arab countries that we supported, where you say we are very active. Yet it is a country that is struggling with serious problems at its borders, whose stability is being called into question by Islamists and other forces. I regret that we have only this vision of financial flows. Of course, on this basis, we are withdrawing from Algeria. I think we could do something else in this country. You tell us that you are active in Egypt and Tunisia. But who knows? We have no political visibility over these countries. We have not said that our cooperation, along with defence or foreign affairs, serves the serious challenges facing Europe's borders. We haven't seen that anywhere. You are never invited to debate these issues here in Parliament. We always see the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and possibly the Minister of the Interior but not you! I say and repeat that we do not take these developments sufficiently into account for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u61	I can't invite myself!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u62	This is the symptom that cooperation is not mobilized on these issues. I say and repeat that we have a vision that is evolving. I'm not saying we're on the sidelines of some of the current indicators or conferences, but we don't have that vision that's sufficiently strategic, sufficiently focused on the future and emerging issues. That seems obvious to me. I'm not saying it's not your will. Simply put, this is not yet part of the decisions that are being made today by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u63	If you ask to speak, Mr Dallemagne will have to speak again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic190x.u64	Mr Claerhout, you have been here for nothing, but I promise you that you will be the first to ask your question at the next committee meeting before the recess. I also propose that the debate on the various reforms, including the reform of the department, should be brought into line with the debate between the Minister and Mr Dallemagne, which has just been held. Thanks for the great cooperation.
