ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, more and more people are creating a profile on social networking sites. This involves dangers. The administrators of these sites have a huge amount of personal data from the users. This makes them particularly popular for advertisers. The users of the sites will be informed about this when they register on those sites. By accepting the terms and conditions they indicate to be aware of what the administrator can do with their data. Many users do not seem to read and accept these conditions blindly. I believe that we have all been through this before. People often want to start very quickly and that's why they press ok everywhere without knowing what to read. Recently, news came that Facebook wants to change the terms and conditions so that they get even more rights to the information that users share. This way, Facebook will own all the movies and photos posted by the users. More information is collected from other applications on the smartphone. The location is tracked even if the GPS is disabled. This is mainly done in order to be of even better service to advertisers. Users who want to remain members of Facebook therefore have no choice. They must accept the terms and conditions. The only other option is to remove the profile. However, it appears that these conditions do not enter into force in Germany. The Supreme Court would have ruled in 2013 that Facebook is not an Irish company, but an American company, which is subject to much stricter privacy laws. I have a number of specific questions. Firstly, what do you think of the trend in which social media collects more and more personal data from their users? Do you find this acceptable from a privacy point of view? Secondly, do you see the possibility of better protecting Belgian citizens from this? I am thinking of an arrangement similar to that in Germany? Thirdly, what urgent and concrete actions will you take in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u2	Mr Secretary of State, you have a number of concerned Facebook users in front of you. Not only are they on this committee, many citizens are also concerned about the new privacy rules that Facebook will apply from 30 January 2015. Most users are probably not even aware of what they will approve by continuing to use Facebook after January 30th. Facebook plans to link information of all kinds. This is a worrying evolution that goes a long way. It is about obtaining the data from the entire internet traffic of the Facebook user. The surfing behavior, every website they visit, is analysed. Facebook also gets access to the user's address book. Whatsapp is a chat service with which you have personal and professional contacts. All photographs on Instagram become potentially subject to use by Facebook for commercial reasons that one has no grasp of. When you were appointed Secretary of State for Privacy in government formation, the federal government made a statement that privacy is very important and should be protected. This theme is important for the Belgian inhabitants. It is a worrying development, to which we as a Parliament and you as Secretary of State will undoubtedly pay the necessary attention. In concrete terms, I have a number of questions which go in the direction of what Mr Van Hecke has said, and of what Mr Dedecker will probably say later. The Belgian privacy committee has raised the new privacy conditions at European level. Can I conclude from this that the Belgian privacy committee first investigated these new rules of Facebook? What is the state of affairs in Europe? Do you think that Europe will take a position before the new rules come into force? That will soon be the case in February. I don't think so. Are there any other measures that will be taken to sensitise users and to protect them? Secondly, Europe has been working for a number of years on a new privacy regulation that would be incorporated into a regulation. In spring 2014, the new privacy regulation was adopted by the European Parliament. The next stage was to find a consensus within the Council of Ministers, after which the text of that Council would be placed alongside Parliament's draft to seek a compromise text. There is no doubt that this is also a process that will take some time, but do you have an insight into the state of play? Will this new regulation effectively prevent Facebook from applying such a far-reaching privacy policy? I would remind you that in three weeks' time it will be ready. Thirdly, is our national privacy watchdog actually powerless against Facebook or are there any Belgian initiatives that can be taken to protect Facebook users or at least inform them about the new policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, the problem has already been clearly outlined, and I will not repeat everything. Facebook is going to use a number of new applications to make even more use of users' private data. The application which I myself think goes terribly far is access to the contacts in someone's address book, so that one can really go all the way into people's private lives, and all for commercial purposes, and let us hope that that is the end of it. One aspect that I also wanted to mention is that there are also shared messages on the website in which users state that their private information should not be used for commercial purposes and that they remain the owner. These are hoax messages, they have no value whatsoever, who creates an account on Facebook naturally agrees to the terms and conditions. However, these messages often give people a false sense of security, and that is something that we should be paying attention to. Mr Van Hecke mentioned that the privacy legislation would apply in all EU countries, because Facebook's European headquarters are located in an EU Member State, namely Ireland. However, this has been contested in Germany and the Supreme Court has ruled that Facebook's dates are the responsibility of US headquarters. Because the US is outside Europe, Germany reserves the right to submit Facebook to its own, much stricter, rules. My questions are similar to those of my fellow Members. Is the German solution applicable to us or are other initiatives planned to ensure the privacy of Facebook users? I am talking about Belgian and European initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, as you announced on your website, you took part in a meeting of the Council of the European Union on 4 December last year on a draft regulation on privacy, to which my fellow Members referred. I would like you to give me a general explanation of that meeting. Firstly, what views have you taken there, as a representative of Belgium? What progression do you see there? On what time do you expect an agreement to be reached in the Council? To what extent does the Council make amendments to the proposal? Do you expect a difficult negotiation with Parliament? What will be the consequences for the final timing? Secondly, as my fellow Members have already pointed out, Germany is now applying its own stricter rules to non-European companies. There Facebook is seen as a non-European company as the decision-making centre is indeed located in the US. This will also apply to a number of other companies and other social networks. What would be the impact of the current proposal for a regulation on Facebook and similar companies? The concerns of users have already been sufficiently underlined by my fellow Members. I won't repeat it. To what extent will countries like Germany be able to apply stricter legislation to non-European companies if the regulation is adopted? What do you intend to do about it? Shouldn't we all be a little more Germany, both economically and in terms of privacy? I see that Mr Van Hecke does not entirely agree with that first. Thirdly and finally, to what extent do you define Facebook today as a European company? Do you think that more stringent Belgian legislation is still possible if that regulation does not come soon? If the adoption takes too long, we will have to take action ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed clear that social media is increasingly present in the daily lives of citizens. We also help ourselves to a large extent every day. After all, they also involve a lot of innovation. They also bring with them a lot of ease. Mr Dedecker, that is also one of the reasons why Belgium has a separate Secretary of State for Privacy. As far as I'm aware, Germany still doesn't have a separate Minister of Privacy. They still do it there... You know that the Netherlands has congratulated us on having a separate Secretary of State for Privacy. We have a very big challenge with that. I agree with everyone that the personal data that are freely available on the Internet is constantly increasing and building up into a mass of data collected by the network site itself. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that these data are protected, not only by the application of Belgian legislation but also by European and international legislation. This means that not only Belgium must act against this phenomenon. The European Directive today requires, among other things, that personal data may be obtained only for specific, explicit and justified purposes and may not subsequently be processed in a manner incompatible with the purposes. Such personal data should be sufficient, relevant and not excessive, based on the purposes for which they are collected or processed. To what extent is there a problem with the privacy of the users of a social network site? After all, it's not just about Facebook. There are also other sites. That degree depends on whether the finality and proportionality principles have been respected in the extension of the conditions of use and whether the user has unequivocally granted his consent to such processing of his personal data. For the sake of clarity, not the Secretary of State but the privacy committee that depends on your assembly and is not under the supervision of the Secretary of State responsible for Privacy, is responsible for such a concrete review. You have a point, of course, from a policy point of view. I take particular account of the developments that are taking place in the context of the negotiations at European level. Mr Dedecker, as you yourself say, the discussions on the draft regulation are a very important part of my policy. As you know, I made it clear in my policy statement that I am watching and waiting for the timing of this new regulation. At that point, I didn't have a clue. In the meantime, I have attended the European Council of Ministers and noted that there has been a development. There is a desire to achieve results fairly quickly. The events of last week are likely to contribute partly to this. If we have to take action against terrorism and extremism, I shall come back to the following questions: privacy will be around the corner. There is always some aspect of privacy that has to do with that. Negotiations at European level are intended to ensure the same high level of protection of personal data for all European citizens. That's very important, isn't it? Many obstacles have already been removed. I believe that we need an updated legislative framework at European level. We will definitely need an updated version of the 1992 Privacy Act here too. By the way, that is one of my duties as Secretary of State for privacy. What I consider to be extremely important is that there should also be a high level of European data protection in the regulation. In other words, on behalf of Belgium, I urge that a strong European privacy watchdog should work. I expressly supported this at the previous European Council. We regard the system of the one stop shop as one of the most important gains of the regulation. If we are a Europe of services and goods, then we are indeed in a system that, if we are operating in a country and from there, we are allowed to operate in all European countries within the framework of the free movement of goods and services. It is not really a good thing that one country looks at it in this way and another country looks at it differently, because then there will be conflicts of privacy in a European dimension. I believe that we should have guarantees, especially at European level, for a point of contact, especially when it comes to such players. These are multinational, usually very big players. I made this clear in the European Council. If the Belgian Privacy Commission has to communicate via Facebook, that is not an easy task. If we can give the European privacy watchdog a number of tasks, it seems to me to have an absolute added value. If we have a seat in Ireland today and if Facebook changes such privacy conditions across Europe, then it is up to the European watchdog to discuss and monitor this. In that case, it is not for each country to monitor this individually. On the position of the Belgian Privacy Commission, an opinion is being prepared at the request of the Privacy Commission itself on the new conditions of use of Facebook in the so-called Working Group Article 29. I like that very much. The 28 countries of Europe and Europe itself, that is also very coincidentally 29. This Working Group Article 29 collects the national privacy authorities of the Member States of the European Union. We ourselves insisted that Europe should take a position on this. In the first week of February, the working group meets to discuss the dossier. There has already been a preparatory working group in which countries other than the Presidency have observed and taken part, such as France and the Netherlands. We are going to discuss this in the first week of February. For this you can visit the website of the Belgian Privacy Commission. The Privacy Commission then provided more information on how to adjust the settings of its Facebook account in order to secure them as effectively as possible. I am fully aware of the importance of the problem. We are increasingly faced with major international players attacking our privacy in data processing. It is important that we are very vigilant about this. Otherwise, we will await the conclusions and recommendations of the working group of European countries. I now turn to the specific questions put by Mr Dedecker, including the content of the Council's discussions on 4 December. On the one hand, there is the question of flexibility in the application of future rules for the public sector. Latvia is now President, but last month it was proposed by the then President of Italy that the regulation would allow Member States to retain their public sector legislation, in so far as it remains within the limits of the regulation. This is not a directive that is coming towards us. Today it is a European directive. Europe's intention is to get a regulation that has the force of law. The regulation then applies as law in all countries of Europe. I supported this approach in my intervention, but I did stress two particular points which, according to Belgium, should be discussed further. In particular, this is the definition of the scope between the draft regulation and the draft directive. For that, next week, on 30 January, I will go to the summit in Riga to discuss that further there. I have also intervened on the general regulation that will apply to the field of health care. I think that everyone agrees that these data should be collected, only the question is what should be in it and how they will be used. Then there was the problem of the unique window or the one stop shop. The fundamental question in the discussion was how transnational privacy violations will be dealt with and what role our national privacy authority and the future European watchdog will play. Mr Dedecker, the Italian Presidency has proposed a general architecture. I supported this solution. However, this is only a framework which still needs to be completed. For example, I proposed asking the technical working group Datix to examine how the role and mandate of the European watchdog, the European Data Protection Supervisor, should be developed in concrete terms in order to avoid fragmentation of data protection as far as possible. I have pointed out that the budgetary implications of the proposed solutions must not be overlooked either. The work within the Council is progressing well, unlike the initial signals I received on this subject. However, it is very difficult to set a deadline for this agreement. One of the difficulties with the proposal is that it deals with very different issues: social media, the Internet, but also direct marketing, as you know, I have an opinion on the collection of data which is then used for commercial purposes, Mrs Jiroflée, social security and public health. It is therefore very difficult to predict the length of the negotiations with the European Parliament. I think it is important that we continue to do so and that we must ensure that this regulation can be implemented as soon as possible. However, it has already become clear that I will not be able to wait for that regulation to come into force. I know to what extent that regulation is building and where the bottlenecks are. However, this does not mean that in the meantime I would not be able to make a number of changes to the privacy legislation in advance in order to clarify and regulate a number of issues, so that we do not have to wait for the European negotiations. As far as Facebook alone is concerned, Facebook does indeed have its European location in Ireland and is therefore subject to the European directive, according to my estimation to Ireland's privacy and to the control of the Irish Privacy Watchdog. Germany has different views and different legislation. Facebook is an American company. If it is indeed an American company, it falls within the scope of the European directive of 1995. This Directive shall also apply where the controller is not established in the European Union but uses automated means located in the territory of a Member State for the processing of personal data. This is stated in Article 4.1. Now, in the proposal for a regulation in Europe, Facebook will also be covered by European legislation, even if it is not based in Ireland, because every company will be subject to the regulation when it offers goods and services to users in the European Union or monitors their behaviour. I am therefore in favour of a European approach to the protection of personal data vis-à-vis non-European companies. I repeat it here once again in response to Mr Dedecker's question. Harmonisation of protection must be set as an objective and we must ensure that we, as a European system, are stronger globally. I therefore strongly support the creation of a strong European authority in the field of privacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u6	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State. We have had a very long answer, but I am still a little hungry. After all, the message is that we are waiting. We are awaiting the outcome of this working group at European level. I must say that I expect a little more from the Secretary of State responsible for Privacy, a more decisive and decisive action. If Germany considers that they will apply stricter rules because they consider Facebook to be a company which has its seat outside the European Union, why should we, Belgium or other countries of the European Union, not be able to do so? But you say we're gonna wait. Facebook moved the deadline to February 1st. Only then will the new conditions enter into force. I now hear that the working party is coming together in the first week of February. The working party may not get out the first week of February. What message do we send to the users? We have a month more time, but there's no clarity. I'm still hungry. The problem isn't solved. You say that we are still covered by the old European directives. This applies to all companies operating here and here, even if their registered office is in Ireland. Is what they are doing in accordance with the directive? If not, action can be taken on the basis of existing legislation. I want to push you. You boast that you are almost the only Secretary of State for Privacy in Europe. Show it to me! Show me your fucking teeth. Bite the file and make sure there is a solution before 31 January 2015. Then the citizens in our country will know where they stand.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u7	The theme is very serious. We agree on that. It's not just a failure divers. It means a hold-up on the personal data of the Facebook users. I have interpreted the answer of the Secretary of State somewhat differently from Mr Van Hecke. Secretary of State Tommelein, who has only been in office for a few months, has been the first to call for the regulation to be implemented as quickly as possible at European level. That process goes a long way and demands his time. That's right. He has underlined that we do not have to wait for that, but that in the meantime we can review and adapt the Belgian privacy legislation. Parliament needs to think about that. We need to look at the 1992 law. All suggestions are welcome, across the borders of majority and opposition, for the benefit of Facebook users. There is now a European directive. The problem with this is that it still needs to be transposed into Belgian law before it can be called upon to take action. For a regulation, that is different. Your reasoning on the directive is interesting. Apart from the discussion where the company's seat is located or the nationality of the company, this reasoning could be followed in the legal context: if the data is processed by users in Belgium, action is taken on our territory, irrespective of the nationality of the company and the location of the company's servers. This could be the logic which could be implemented in Belgian legislation and which could be included in the annexes of the regulation. It is a very interesting and important debate. As Mr Van Hecke said, it will be very difficult to do anything before 1 February. The government is not working long enough for this either, but we need to do something about it as soon as possible. If it does not work at European level or if it takes too long, then we must do it here. Perhaps we should also discuss this with the privacy committee, as it can also give an opinion on this issue. What is happening now is actually a hold-up on the personal data.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, I am very pleased to hear that you are following the European negotiations very closely. I am also pleased to hear that it will not be a directive, but a regulation, so that we can apply it very quickly. On the other hand, you say very carefully that nothing prevents you from taking initiatives yourself. In fact, I expected you to announce these initiatives today. So I am left with the question of the timing of your own initiatives. If I look at Germany in this case, Mr Dedecker, not on other matters, then I see that they have gone there very quickly. One could quickly protect the population from the lack of privacy. I therefore urge that we look at the German solution and perhaps try to get that work done before the end of the month or very soon thereafter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u9	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your very comprehensive answer. I have heard some very interesting things, but I have also heard things for which I would like additional information. Maybe I'll draw up a new question. You said that you will take an initiative yourself pending the regulation. It would be nice to know exactly what initiative. It would also be nice to know exactly what the law on data processing in the public sector is about. To what extent will it still be compatible with what is happening now? I'll process that in a follow-up question. You also said that we are looking at the location of the data controller. For Facebook, that is clear: in the US. We know that a long time ago. This is therefore not covered by the directive. Can't Belgium go on now? Apparently, I can. I therefore hope that this will be done effectively. Is that what you mean when you say you will take your own initiative? In any case, you seem to support the principle of the one stop shop and a strong European watchdog. That is indeed necessary. That's essential. That's the only way to mean anything, given the scale on which the big players operate today. You said that the regulation will now be dealt with more quickly after what happened in Paris. I particularly hope that what happened in Paris will delay the regulation. What happened in Paris was an attack on our fundamental freedoms. I hope that we will not respond to this attack on our fundamental freedoms by restricting our fundamental freedoms. That's what I'm gonna insist on. There are already some countries where fundamental freedoms such as privacy and free speech are discussed. I hope that will not have a negative impact on the regulation, and I hope that you will monitor it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u10	I can understand that I am expected to act immediately and immediately change laws. However, that is not possible from today to tomorrow. It is important, however, that, as I said in my reply, the privacy committee is not a body dependent on the government, nor is it under the supervision and competence of the Secretary of State for Privacy. In the past, too, that committee did not fall within the competence of the Minister of Justice. It is Parliament that has competence in this matter! Parliament must take initiatives. Parliament can instruct the committee and ask questions. In other words, privacy legislation and its modernisation in the coming years is indeed my responsibility. As far as possible action against Facebook is concerned, I have pointed out to the Belgian privacy committee that there is a problem in this area. I asked the committee for an opinion. I note that some people are crying out with their arms up, because another is going to apply in two weeks' time. But normally that should have been a fact, since everything was postponed by a month. The privacy committee has replied to me that the issue is being looked at at a European level. The working party is in the process of technical preparation and the first week of February will be informed of its findings. This is about the European authorities themselves. Then who am I to say that I will not wait for a meeting of the 28 Member States and as a new Secretary of State for Privacy I will have myself passed a Belgian law that Facebook must kneel to its knees? I hear Mr Van Hecke saying that we can remove his profile. Mr Van Hecke, I have some experience with that. You thought so! When one removes one's profile, one simply insists on it. I can still see the profile I deleted. I've removed a few. I had two profiles and I deleted both because I switched to a page. I can still see those profiles. If I can see them, Facebook can still see them. They are no longer visible to others. The big question with which we struggle is how to enforce certain things at Facebook. I have recently heard a colleague of mine say that one does not need to be Goliath, because one can also get someone down as David. I want to be David, but I don't want to be Quixote. If I have to kneel down as Belgian Secretary of State Facebook, I choose to follow the advice of the privacy committee. That committee is a body of Parliament. I will comply with the advice of the privacy committee. In this particular case, I will wait and see what the privacy experts of the 28 European countries, together with the European authorities, have to say about this. You may have found a country where the policy was stricter, namely Germany, but I do not know the evolution in Germany and do not know to what extent Germany has been able to enforce some of the rules of Facebook and whether they are effectively followed; I do not have any idea at this time. In fact, this is the conclusion I draw: I would like to start things up, I would like to ask the privacy committee a few questions and I would like to make a plea in Europe, but to start a direct fight immediately with Facebook seems a little early, I think I should have some supporters in Europe to fight together.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u11	Mr President, I have a suggestion. Perhaps we should consider, in the context of the regulation of next week's work, whether we can invite the privacy committee so that we can continue the discussion with it. After all, the privacy committee is a body of Parliament. The Secretary of State is sending us to her. It seems to me to be an option. We may not be able to decide on this ourselves today, but if we put the item on the agenda next week for the settlement of the work, we can discuss it in committee and then we may be able to invite the privacy committee quite quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u12	Mr President, I agree with you. Actually, I wanted to make the same proposal. The situation cannot be underestimated. The Secretary of State can do his job at his level, but, as rightly said, the privacy committee is still reporting to Parliament, and so we must also take responsibility. Let us hear the privacy committee and get more information about the advice and the legal possibilities for us to act. So I'm in favour of it, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u13	Mr President, I would also like to endorse Mr Van Hecke's proposal. It is excellent that we ourselves hear what it says from the privacy committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u14	That's noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u15	Mr Secretary of State, the privacy committee is a body of Parliament set up by law on privacy, for which you are competent. The law stipulates that the privacy committee shall consist of eight effective members and eight alternates appointed by the Chamber. The privacy law also provides, I quote: "If a permanent member is unable to attend, or is absent, and in the event that his mandate falls open, it will be replaced by his alternate.' By law of 23 December 2005, the provision was added that it does not prevent the committee from meeting in a formation bringing together both the permanent members and the alternate members. Of course, it is clear that the alternates who are not present and who do not replace an absent permanent member do not count for the quorum. They can't vote either, as it says in the house rules. For comparison, in the Flemish Supervisory Board only the effective members and the alternate members who replace an prevented effective member can participate in the meeting. Article 36, second paragraph, of the Privacy Act determines the remuneration. Both the Deputy Chairman and the Deputy Vice-President and the Deputy Members do not receive them; they receive an indexed attendance allowance of EUR 223 according to an earlier index, as well as reimbursement of travel and subsistence expenses. Firstly, do you have any idea of the number of situations in which alternates are present, without the effective member of which they are alternates being absent? Do you have an insight into the financial impact of this? Secondly, is that, in your view, a model of normal, correct management, at least financially? Thirdly, to what extent do you see a distortion of the philosophical and professional balance that the Chamber has in fulfilling its mandates, if, in addition to the effective members, there are also additional alternates present in the debate, without, of course, taking part in the vote? Of course, the debate weighs on that. Fourthly, you just mentioned a revision of the privacy law. Will you continue to apply the principle that alternates may be present at the debate, even if they do not replace an absent Member? If so, will they still be paid?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u16	Mr President, Mr Dedecker, I have contacted the committee for the first three questions and I have received the following reply from them. The committee shall meet in a formation bringing together both the effective and the alternate members. The Privacy Protection Act also explicitly describes this in Article 25. The sectoral committees, on the other hand, only meet with effective members in principle. An alternate shall be sent there only in absence. Sometimes the alternate is asked to be present as an effective member, but this is exceptional and always happens when the alternate has specific competences that are necessary or useful in a specific dossier. The presence of all members of the committee, both effective and alternate, is very high. An absence is almost always justified, mostly for professional reasons or health reasons and even mostly limited to some members. Financially this means that the alternates account for about half of the attendance allowance for the committee. For the years 2013 and 2014, 44 155,8 euros and 42 740,55 euros were paid respectively. It should be noted that in 2013 a two-day conclave was held, which means that the amount paid exceeds 2014. Overall, the use of alternates may be a considerable saving compared to the possibility of using consultants or experts. The wide range of competences and divisions represented in the committee makes it possible to avoid recourse to external experts. This has made it possible to minimise expenditure on external consultancy. Any disruption of the professional and philosophical balance due to the presence of alternates has never really been mentioned. On the contrary, it is better for two or more Commissioners to share their views rather than create a monopoly for a single representative. From the start of the committee's work in 1990 it has always been the practice to work towards a consensus as far as possible. This sometimes takes time and especially intense consultation. It nevertheless avoids sharp contradictions and conflicts. We must not forget that the protection of privacy and personal data protection is not a harsh science, in which doses of privacy can be measured quantitatively. On the other hand, it is important to adopt positions and give opinions which can be widely shared. We need broad support in this respect. This was the response of the privacy committee. As far as the reform of this privacy committee is concerned, Mr Dedecker, it is too early to comment on it now. In that case, I certainly need to conclude the negotiations of the new European regulatory framework first, because those discussions will have an impact on national privacy authorities. I have heard that it is also being examined to what extent the national privacy authorities can really play the role of sanctioning authority and even impose fines. That's not 100% clear. So I await the composition and functioning of the committee and the additional amendments in order to be able to look at everything from a broader perspective. You know my parliamentary reflex, because I have been where you are for years, and so I can assure you that every proposal or draft will be discussed in Parliament and that Members will be fully involved in the new composition of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u17	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. It would indeed be very strange if legislative proposals were no longer discussed in this House. So what you said to that effect seems obvious to me. In fact, it is clear that sectoral committees only ask for alternates if they have specific competences that can be used there. That is indeed a good way of working. This saves consultancy costs because the expertise that is present is then used. That is why there is also the exception which provides for meetings with alternates. However, it is strange when the exception becomes the rule. When people say that the privacy committee always meets in full, the exception is made the rule. I find that a very strange way of working. It would be better to abolish the alternates and turn them into a large body of sixteen members. I believe that we will have to look at this effectively in the reform of the privacy committee, in particular as regards its composition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u18	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Temmerman's 1265 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u19	Mr Secretary of State, even before the horrific attacks in Paris, it was announced that the German car manufacturer Daimler intends to screen all 28 000 workers for radicalisation and the possibility of participating in terrorist actions. This measure, introduced on 1 December, allows them to compare the list of workers with the lists of terrorist suspects used by the European Union and the United States. In response to these reports, it was also considered in the Netherlands whether or not companies are allowed to screen their employees on such lists. The spokesperson of the College Protection Personal Data stated that this should be possible under very strict conditions. Only if they can demonstrate that their action has a legal basis and the purpose justifies this serious breach of privacy should that be possible. Mr Secretary of State, this information is suddenly becoming very topical with recent events. The fight against terrorism is being stepped up everywhere and at all levels of policy. In these two neighbouring countries Germany and the Netherlands, part of the employee's privacy is sacrificed in exchange for national security. What about the employees' privacy here? Can companies also make use of the possibility to screen their employees for presence on such lists? If so, under what conditions can this also be subject to strict conditions? While it is desirable on the one hand, how can you guarantee that this does not open the door to other forms of screening of staff? Have you heard of companies that have already done or wanted to do this in the past or asked whether they were allowed to do so? What lists does the Belgian government have on terrorist suspects and radicalisation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u20	Mrs Smeyers, this question is very topical. Several new initiatives have been taken in the justified promotion of the fight against terrorism and extremism that we have been facing over the past week. The fight against terrorism must always be conducted within the limits of a democratic rule of law. My party colleague Patrick Dewael said in the Chamber that we give the terrorists the greatest gift by losing the principles of our rule of law in this fight. Through all the initiatives that are being taken in the near future, including by my fellow Members with whom I am in contact to test privacy, this government wants to ensure that freedoms and privacy are not further undermined by general measures in the fight against terrorism. We will not undermine everyone's privacy for that one percent terrorists. There is no problem in applying the special detection methods, under strict conditions and always under the supervision of an investigative judge, to suspects of certain crimes. The recruitment of terrorists can be included in this. There are laws that allow companies with a certain security risk to have their employees screened. New rules and new laws are not necessary for this, on the condition that they must be implemented by national authorities such as the police, state security or the police. There must be a sound reason for public order and security. There must always be a legal basis, such as the law of 11 December 1998 on security clearances or surveillance legislation. The person being investigated must always give his consent. The employer in question does receive a signal that there is certain information about a risk but does not receive any concrete information for the purposes of privacy. The staff of certain companies have an increased safety regime. This may be because of the nature of the work, such as surveillance companies, or because of the delicate place of employment, such as maintenance personnel in nuclear installations. In Doel there are 40 people who are currently not admitted to certain sites for security reasons, because there would be effective suspicions of insecurity. Staff handling baggage at airports are also at risk. These are things that the current legislation, both European and in our country, allows. Mrs Smeyers, I would like to stress once again the principle of proportionality used in the screening of terrorism. We can extend the legal possibility for security screening with some high-risk companies. In the context of the fight against terrorism that we are now stepping up, we could extend the list of high-risk companies with the government. I believe this is possible. However, as far as I am concerned, it is impossible to open the door to the screening of all companies under any circumstances. Based on labour law, in particular the relationship between the employer and the employee, an employee can rely on the concept of privacy expectation according to established European case law. This can be defined as the expectation that a person reasonably has of the extent to which interference will occur in his private life, including at the workplace. Moreover, a number of relevant collective agreements regulate the relationship between the employee's privacy and the employer's right of control. These collective agreements also contain the basic principles such as proportionality and transparency. Any check must have a fair purpose and must not violate the employee's privacy beyond what is strictly necessary to achieve that objective. I have already said that workers must be informed in advance of the control techniques used. You ask what lists the Belgian government has on terrorist suspects and radicalisation. For this I have to refer to my colleagues in the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs, who share the competence of this matter. They shall have this information at their disposal. One of the possibilities is for the government to expand these lists in the near future, in order to refine a number of issues in the fight against terrorism. Not insignificant, as Secretary of State for Privacy, I would like to stress that any measure the government will take in the coming days must be evaluated and include an evaluation principle. I am not in favour of extending measures now, in the light of the circumstances, which will continue to apply in full without any form of evaluation. The government must make a detailed statement on all the measures it will take in the coming days. We do not always have to change laws. We sometimes need to expand or improve a number of things. Above all, we must ensure that measures achieve their objective and that we do not find ourselves in a situation where the relationship and balance between the privacy of the majority of citizens is compromised for the sake of extremists who do not comply with the rules. That is always an unequal fight, by the way. Terrorists do not follow the rules, while democratic rule of law abides by them. This will certainly be discussed in the government in the coming days. I have already had discussions with the Minister of Justice on the balance between security and privacy. With my answer, I would like to clarify that there are legal means available for screening companies and that we can consider extending that list.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u21	Mr Secretary of State, I share your view that we should not now give up everyone's privacy completely, either because of panic or because, unfortunately, we have been woken up again with regard to the threat of terrorism. You are quite right to say that this does not even remove the threat of terror. After all, the lifting of everyone's privacy will affect all good citizens, but the perpetrators of such acts of terror may continue to get away with all kinds of acts of mischief. It's a difficult balance. Probably every legitimate citizen is willing to give up his privacy completely because he simply doesn't have any important things to hide, but that doesn't achieve the goal. Companies can already screen their employees, you say, as happens in the Netherlands and Germany. It is not always necessary to invent new laws. We can also take good measures, subject to some adjustments. That is the suggestion you are making now, to extend the list of companies. That's a very good suggestion. I therefore hope that you will take this with you to the overall discussion with the Ministers for the Interior and Justice. You can each take measures on your own domain. It is not a question of cutting corners or completely new laws, but simply of tightening up existing legislation with respect for proportionality. A little privacy can be given up, provided that the principles of the rule of law are respected. You are right on all these points, but I think we should consider the measure. I therefore support your suggestion and hope that it will result in the extension of the list.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u22	The meeting was suspended. Work will resume at 3.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u23	Joined Questions No 422 by Mrs Maya Detiège, Nos 940 and 946 by Mr Philippe Goffin, and Questions No 922 by Mrs Zakia Khattabi, Nos 962 and 988 by Mr Raf Terwingen and No 1032 by Mrs Fabienne Winckel are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u24	Mr President, Minister, on 6 October 2014, a number of domestic and foreign media reports that Turkey has carried out a trade of approximately one hundred and eighty ISIS fighters to release Turkish hostages from the Mosul Consulate, who were imprisoned there. According to the communication of the Turkish intelligence services, this was a pre-planned operation. Among the fighters were a number of foreign Syrian fighters, both French, Sweden and, allegedly, one Belgian. Of course, we're glad the hostages are back with their families. Nevertheless, we are asking ourselves questions about the situation. After all, one hundred and eighty Syrian fighters can now be repatriated to Syria. Hence my next questions. Is it true that Turkey has held a Belgian warrior, or even superiors, prisoner? Was Belgium aware of this? Was Belgium aware of the planned exchange? Is it acceptable that a Belgian citizen should be the subject of an exchange between two foreign powers? Was that person or were those persons who were or were in Turkish prisons known to the Justice Department? Is there a case against them? If so, is there a possible arrest warrant against those persons? Do you know if any Belgians, who may be eligible to move to Syria, are still being held prisoner in Turkey at the moment? Are there consultation structures at that level, so that there is a contact between the Belgian and Turkish authorities? Have agreements been made on such matters? Is there a partnership? Has it started yet? What does this mean, if any?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u25	Mr President, Mrs Bellens, at the time I took note of the news through the newspaper as if a Belgian had been part of a trade. As Minister of Justice, on the basis of the information obtained and obtained by the security and intelligence services, I cannot confirm that this was effective. Nor can I confirm, on the basis of this information, that Turkey is currently holding a Belgian warrior or Belgian warrior prisoner. Our security and intelligence services are trying to obtain maximum visibility of the movers and their activities on the ground. We know that most people engage effectively in the conflict as fighters within the ranks of the Islamic State organisation. Some have a more supportive role to play. As far as warriors are concerned, the security and intelligence services are examining their involvement and the role they play in organisations such as the Islamic State. In reply to your third question, the State Security Office has regular contacts with its Turkish partner service, including with regard to Syria. In the field of police, there is no cooperation protocol between Belgium and Turkey, specifically with regard to Belgian fighters. More generally, there is a memorandum of understanding about police cooperation. A joint declaration was signed by the former Minister of Justice, Mrs Turtelboom and her Turkish colleague, in which both committed themselves to further intensifying cooperation between Belgium and Turkey in a number of specific areas. Our Belgian liaison officer in the federal police force in Turkey also maintains contacts with the competent Turkish police authorities. The Syrian problem is one of our liaison officer's main priorities. A recent large-scale exchange of personnel, in almost all services in Turkey, has led to a change in many of the partners and a need to build a new network of contacts. Belgium, together with France, took the lead in 2013 in working with a number of European Union Ministers for the Interior on this issue. In view of the important role played by Turkey in this dossier, the competent Turkish minister was also involved. I too, as Minister of Justice with Turkey, will discuss this issue in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u26	I hope, Minister, that once Turkey's contacts are back in order, if they have already taken place, because that does not seem to be so certain, this will be avoided in the future. It is very desirable that we prevent Belgian citizens from arriving in Syria via a trade with the ISIS fighters. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u27	Minister, the nationality law has been in force since 1 January 2013. In doing so, strict conditions were attached to obtaining Belgian nationality, such as legal residence on the territory during a regulated period, compliance with the laws of the Belgian people and the ECHR, knowledge of one of the three national languages, integration and economic participation. In addition, the persons concerned must not have committed any serious facts specific to the person concerned. The number of procedures has been reduced. This legislation has been in force for two years now. Can you tell me how many foreigners obtained Belgian nationality in 2014 on the basis of the law applicable since 1 January 2013? Have there been any awards on the basis of the previously existing rules? Can you make a division according to the different modalities on which Belgian nationality was acquired? Can you give an overview of the application of the legislation in general and any remaining bottlenecks that your services would have identified?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u28	Mrs Van Cauter, I regret to say to the first three questions that my administration itself does not have direct access to the statistics relating to the acquisition of nationality. That is why I have instructed my services to question the competent authorities. Their cooperation is crucial. After analysing the figures, I will provide you with the information requested. As far as your fourth question is concerned, only after receiving the 2014 figures can a comparison be made between the 2013 and 2014 figures in order to detect trends and evolutions. As far as your fifth question is concerned, I have instructed my services, in consultation with the relevant actors, including the public prosecutors, civil servants and the Chamber, to draw up an inventory of the difficulties which may arise from the current nationality law. This research will take time and requires a thorough analysis. I will provide you with more information on this at the appropriate time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u29	Minister, thank you for your reply. Now do I understand that you will spontaneously return to the theme? Will you answer me in writing or will I ask the question again in some time?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u30	Of course, I will do that spontaneously, but it may be that my spontaneousity is not in keeping with your curiosity. Therefore, it may not be bad for you to come back to the case yourself. Anyway, all orders are given. You may pull me to my ear, if that's what you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u31	Question No 1155 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u32	Mr President, Minister, it is a recent news that has led me to ask you this question, even if you have already anticipated the answer. It is known that the so-called internees make up almost 10 per cent of the prison population, a steadily increasing number. We must quickly place the more than a thousand internees, who are currently in our prisons, in appropriate institutions. It is a debate that we have been conducting here in Parliament for many years; projects exist but they may be too limited. We know the legal context, our legislation, but also the repeated convictions of the European Court of Human Rights, whose judgments unfortunately remain unanswered. In fact, just one year ago, in January 2014, the European Court of Human Rights simultaneously handed down eight judgments condemning Belgium for detention of persons interned in inappropriate places, in violation of Article 5(1) of the European Convention on Human Rights. This worrying situation continues to be relayed by the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights, the Committee against Torture, the United Nations Human Rights Committee and the International Prison Observatory. Last May, a person whose name has been widely quoted by the press and whom I do not think should be repeated in the circumstances, requested euthanasia. According to the De Morgen newspaper of 3 January, the case would have ended on appeal with an agreement between the person concerned and the Ministry of Justice, which agreed that the internee should be transferred to a hospital in order, it was said at that time, to perform an act of euthanasia on Sunday, 11 January. You have taken the happy decision – I would like to point out, Minister – to transfer the person concerned to the Legal Psychiatry Centre in Ghent. He would later be accommodated in a specialised centre in the Netherlands, for lack of such a centre in Belgium. What we are holding back from this case, Minister, is that the conditions of detention in our country push people to imagine extreme solutions because they do not receive the care to which they are entitled. Of course, there is the atrocity of the crimes committed, but I have never considered that it justified the infringement of a number of fundamental values. Every person, even if deprived of liberty for serious offences, must be treated with dignity and treated in a social defence institution if his or her psychiatric condition so requires. Without taking the words of the League of Human Rights, which considered that the act of euthanasia on the person who requested it was a form of unconfessed death penalty – the words seem to me to be somewhat unaware of the meaning of the death penalty, which is a measure imposed by the authority – it remains, however, that one can wonder about the scope of this particular case and the lessons to be drawn from it for other specific situations. I would not like to see one react only on a case-by-case basis, which is too often the trend in our country, depending on the media effect reserved for particular situations. Minister, could you please convey to me your position with regard to a genuine political will to transfer detained internees to appropriate care facilities? The federal budget reduces the funding for medical expenses for inmates and internees from EUR 12.1 million in 2013 to EUR 7.9 million in 2015, a decrease of 35%. I believe that we can no longer boast of promises or commitments if the budgetary resources allocated to the construction of new centres adapted or to the development of those existing do not follow. I would like to hear from you about your investment programming so that more of these people can be transferred to appropriate places so that they can be accompanied medically.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u33	Minister, over the past few weeks, the lack of an adapted care path for interned people has been repeatedly highlighted through the media. After the sad events of Jonathan Jacob there is now also the story of Frank Van den Bleeken. Although the two situations are separate from each other, the persons concerned either had or have a psychiatric condition for which little or no care is currently provided. Interns don't belong in prison. Everyone agrees. There must be appropriate treatment for interned persons within their own secure framework. The construction of the new forensic psychiatric centers in Antwerp and Ghent is a step in the right direction, but that should not be the end point. Within one year, on 1 January 2016, the new internment law of 5 May 2014 will enter into force. The purpose of this law is to make a thorough adjustment to the previous internment law which was not implemented due to a lack of financial resources and system errors. The new law will focus on careful expertise and diagnosis in the design of the internment process and the internment itself, with the care aspect of the internment measures at all times being central. On the positive side, the coalition agreement also provides for proper care for interns through sufficient budgetary resources to ensure the implementation of the new legal framework, but also through the establishment of a specialised centre for the observation and diagnosis of offenders. Minister, in the past, the lack of a budget has proved to be the cause of the implementation of the law of 21 April 2007. What guarantees are being given to ensure that this new law will be implemented, given the difficult financial situation? Has an initiative already been taken to set up the specialized centre? What is the state of play in this? What's the deadline for this? How are the restricted places in the FPCs filled, knowing that there is more need for interned people than there is room, namely 1 150 interned people for 264 places in the care of male interned people? Then where are the women interned?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the implementation of an establishment specialising in long stays in Belgium, I should like to know that I am going to organise a space so that those who are interned for whom there is no therapeutic treatment can stay in such conditions that their lives can, as far as possible, continue to make sense. It is clear that care is predominant for this group. My ambition is fully in line with the government agreement which provides for the reception of internees in an appropriate infrastructure providing the appropriate care and follow-up. I am currently studying the possibilities within the existing infrastructure which, with minor adaptations, could meet the requirements of a long-stay facility. As I have already said, I think I can present you with a concrete proposal for a solution, at the latest, at the beginning of next summer. Mrs Uyttersprot rightly points out that the coalition agreement also provides for the creation of a specialised centre for observation and diagnosis. The establishment of this centre allows us to better orient the interned person towards a care path tailored to the interned person. The FPC of Ghent has today a department for observation and orientation that I will soon visit myself. Mr. Maingain's questions refer to the case that has been the subject of numerous comments and explanations in the media in recent days. For medical reasons arising from the professional secrecy of the treating doctors, they decided to stop the euthanasia procedure which had been organised in the context of the judgment of the Brussels Court of Appeal and which endorsed an agreement between the Belgian State and the person concerned on the facilitation of the euthanasia procedure. In this particular context, I could only make a decision – from that moment on – to transfer the person concerned to the Legal Psychiatry Centre (CPL) in Ghent, which offered the possibility of placing him in observation in order to be able to direct him to an appropriate treatment and treatment route. Without going into the details of the individual file, I can inform you that the person concerned has stayed in the social defence sections of Merksplas and Turnhout. I decided to transfer to the Ghent PLC last week. It took place last Thursday. I am in close contact with my Dutch counterpart so that a possible transfer of the person concerned to the Netherlands can be made possible both in practice and in law. A transfer note is not yet planned, as the interne is currently under observation at the Ghent PLC. The officials of the central administration of justice are working with their Dutch counterparts to develop a legal regime. There is currently no proposal for an agreement on the cost of a possible transfer of the internee to the Netherlands. This point therefore still needs to be discussed. As regards Mr Maingain's question on the recent conviction of Belgium by the European Court of Human Rights concerning the treatment of internees, I refer first of all to what has been and will be achieved in terms of placements in the new specialised centres in Ghent and Antwerp. In the meantime, I have engaged in a constructive dialogue with my public health colleague, Maggie De Block, on the issue of medical and psychiatric care for prisoners, including internees. This care could be even better. I am convinced that it is not only for the justice system to take charge of them and that cooperation with Mrs De Block's department will lead to an improvement. I will do my utmost to find a budgetary solution in this area with my colleagues. The Legal Psychiatry Centre in Ghent has 264 effective places spread over four sections, each with a specific therapeutic function, environment and diet. In principle, patients pass through their therapeutic journey from one section to another, the first being dedicated to reception and observation for diagnosis, the last being dedicated to interns almost able to be transferred to a conventional care institution. According to the agreement with the private partners, the Centre will be gradually completed until next November. At present, it is home to 41 internees. Decisions on placement in the Centre fall within the competence of the Dutch-speaking social defence commissions, depending on the medical criteria and the capacity of the institution. Currently, all internees are housed in the first section, as the Centre has only opened its doors very recently. As of 23 September, 1,091 internees resided in institutions of DG PPE. These included 643 in Flanders, 436 in the social defence sections of Turnhout and Merksplas and 247 in the psychiatric annex. In Wallonia, there were 313, 200 of them at the Paifve social defence institution, 113 in psychiatric annex and 95 in Brussels, all in psychiatric annex. Female internees stay mainly in Bruges and Berkendael. Both have been recognised as social defence institutions. Some female internees are staying in the psychiatric wards of other prisons today, such as in the penitentiary institution of Ghent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u35	Mr. Chair, I thank the Minister for this detailed response, which provides a more accurate overview. I take note of the minister's intentions. I will wait to see how the project continues and runs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u36	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your detailed reply. I am pleased to hear that you have been dealing with this problem from the beginning of your presidency. It is high time that a solution was sought and that people were treated appropriately and sustainably in this way. Rome wasn't built one day. It is a good thing that you enter into dialogue with fellow ministers, that you go into the field and that you specifically provide more opportunities for interns in the short term. I am hopeful that you will follow this closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u37	Mr President, Minister, it is difficult to estimate the number of gambling addicts in Belgium; some talk about 30 000, others about 100 000. It is quite clear that quite a few organisations involved in this issue consider gambling addiction to be a serious problem. Now we see that even the Family Association is ringing the bell. Gambling goes far beyond just the individual because often also leads to family and financial problems. Often gambling addicts attract their entire environment in a negative spiral of dependence. It is a social problem that is rightly raised by a number of organisations. The government has clearly recognised this problem in the past. In 1999 the Gaming Commission was set up and in 2004 the Exclusive Persons Information System was launched, the registration of persons who for all kinds of reasons no longer have access to real and virtual gambling opportunities. Both were set up to fight the problem of gambling addiction. A number of incidents show that the control mechanisms do not work or only fail. The best-known example dates back to September 2014, when we were able to see a deafening report by Tom Van Assche, who showed that the entire list or registration by EPIS is not working at all. He showed that forty-one gambling sites controlled by the Gaming Commission allowed a registered individual to register without any problems. This would be the result of an investigation by the former Minister of Justice. What is the outcome of this investigation, Minister? Has anything happened since then? In the meantime, are you working on that investigation? Secondly, in your policy statement, you indicated that the number of casino leases would be increased from nine to eleven. A scheme would also be established to allow cruise ships to exploit gambling in our territorial waters. What is the reason for that? Why is that necessary? A third question I would like to fire at you is the following. If it is true that we are already failing to properly follow up on the problem, how will this be dealt with in the future? Are you also planning a policy on gambling addicts?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u38	Mr President, Mrs Jiroflée, the Committee on Gambling was asked exactly what was going on and she gave me the necessary explanation. This shows that the database of excluded players does work and is applied to casinos, playrooms and online websites. The EPIS therefore works, but an important improvement of that system is to check the identity of the online players using the National Register. The control system is still incomplete because there is no structural link to the National Register. Homeland has been contacted to work out a solution. With regard to your second question, the government agreement is indeed talking about an extension of two casinos and a regulation for cruise ships. The channeling assignment for gambling means that a sufficiently attractive but regulated offer of gambling is available. If we want to keep excluding the vulnerable player, there must be an attractive market, otherwise the vulnerable player will move very easily to another Member State or an illegal website. The need was therefore identified to provide for an extension of channeling in the area of casino debt securities. As far as cruise ships are concerned, we are talking about the specific situation of international ships, and we want to avoid that the rules on games of chance mean that these ships would not visit Belgian ports. I come to your third question. The principle of exclusion of players through EPIS is further developed. In consultation with the Gaming Commission, a policy that takes into account the protection of the player will be developed in the future. Today, more than two hundred and eighty thousand players have been excluded and we can decide that the existing system is working, even if we still have to try to improve it. Your fourth question, a policy on gambling addicts is inherently linked to a policy on gambling. The legislator has already taken a good initiative by organising exclusion by a third party on a problem of gambling addiction. In addition, the Gaming Commission on reaching gambling addict players has developed a collaboration with the aid sector online, whereby a player can check on a specialized website whether he is a gambling addict and find out where he can go for help. I am also counting on the cooperation of the Communities to improve assistance for the gambling addict.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am particularly pleased to hear that this problem is being addressed. Allow me to ask a small supplementary question on the problem of the National Registry Number. I wonder at what time this can be resolved. I do have a problem with the reasoning that problem players should have a sufficiently controlled opportunity. To be honest, I have the feeling that this is a fallacy. I don't see how raising nine to eleven casinos can fix that. If there is a problem already, I think that is the wrong signal. I would still be interested in timing the National Registry Number, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u40	Questions Nos 1191 and 1192 by Mrs Smeyers are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u41	Mr President, Minister, many of us have been shocked by Théo Francken's statements in the press on 22 December about possible searches of undocumented persons, without a warrant. On 22 December, we learned that a working group, involving Justice, was studying the possibility of reviewing the law on the police function in order to allow the Foreign Office to dispense with a warrant issued by a judge to search a undocumented person. Such a measure would seriously violate the rights conferred by Article 15 of our Constitution, as well as Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which guarantees the inviolability of the home. My questions will be simple. Do you confirm the existence of this working group? Has it already met and what are its first conclusions? What is the specific purpose of this working group? How did you react to this proposal? What is your position on this today? Are there other situations in which consideration would be given to removing judicial control over police operations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u42	Mr President, Mr Kir, I assume that you are referring to the article published on 22 December 2014 in De Standaard under the title translated into French "We must be able to search without a warrant among the undocumented". It is mentioned that the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration confirms that a working group, involving Justice, is considering the proposal of the Office of Foreigners and that he himself does not yet wish to speak on the subject. I personally have not yet seen any proposal from the Office. If the Secretary of State wishes to propose an amendment to the Law on the Police Function, I will obviously be aware of this with interest and with particular attention to the rights and respect for private and family life, including the principle of the inviolability of the home, as provided for in international and constitutional provisions. To my knowledge, no working group has yet been dedicated specifically to this issue, in which Justice would have participated. You will understand that I cannot comment on a proposal that I have not yet seen or analysed on the basis of an article in the press. With regard to your last question, I will reply that I am not currently planning any reduction in judicial review of police missions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u43	Minister, your position reassures me. You understand that I am still concerned about the attitude of your colleague, Mr Franken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u44	Mr President, Minister, during the last parliamentary term, I have repeatedly drawn the attention of your predecessors to the difficult human and material conditions in which the staff and judges of the courts in Namur were forced to work. While the construction of the new courthouses in Dinant and Namur is slow to materialize, the situation continues to deteriorate, particularly in terms of personnel, as a result of the linear savings measures decided by your government. If this situation is not unique to the province of Namur, it results in concrete consequences. Indeed, the King's prosecutor and the president of the Namur court of first instance announced on 9 January that fixed cases will be handed over "ulteriorly" due to serious understaffing both to the prosecutor's office and to the registry. This decision demonstrates how the federal government's choices to impose linear savings that will affect the judiciary as a whole (including a de facto decrease in the number of judges) will further increase the backlog and may lead to a decline in the quality of service provided to litigants. It calls for a concrete and rapid response from the government. Minister, have you been aware of the decision of the King's Prosecutor and the President of the Namur Court of First Instance to suspend the processing of fixed cases for lack of staff? What was your reaction? Was contact taken with them? How many files are involved? What will be the delay in their treatment? Can you tell me what measures are envisaged to meet the human needs of the Namur Court of First Instance? Will additional staff and magistrates be assigned to Namur and Dinant? When will this be implemented? Are other judicial districts facing the same difficulties? What structural arrangements do you intend to implement to respond to them?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u45	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the situation in the peace justice system in the second canton of Wavre. Last December, there was mention of the potential closure of this justice system following the departure of the judge's pension and the delay in the publication of the vacancy. Since then, a temporary solution has been found until a new justice of the peace can be appointed. It is the justices of the peace from other cantons, if my information is correct, who will act in Wavre and who will manage the emergencies. In a second stage, an alternate justice of the peace currently in the process of being appointed will be in charge of the second canton of Wavre until a final appointment takes place. Although a solution had been found, it would have been easier to proceed directly with the final appointment of a new judge. Minister, this situation raises the question above all that the retirement of the former Wavre justice of the peace was planned. Moreover, this specific case does not seem to be an isolated case: the same problem could arise at the end of February in Braine-l'Alleud. It seems that you wanted, for budgetary reasons, to establish a list of priority appointments. Has this list of positions ever been established? On the basis of what criteria? If the list was made, what about Wavre? Can we reassure Braine-l'Alleud who will soon be in a similar situation? If this list has not yet been drawn up, when can it be hoped that it will be drawn up? How do you plan to organize things in practice pending appointments?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u46	Minister, the Association of Magistrates' Union has announced its intention to file a complaint against the Belgian State because of the lack of resources devoted to justice. Individually, some chiefs of the courts and judges would also consider attacking the Belgian State on remand in order to ensure that it was forced to respect the planned staffing framework in the courthouses. Thus, the president of the Association of Magistrates' Union, Manuela Cadelli, announces that five magistrates are currently missing at the Namur Public Prosecutor's Office. According to her, out of 250 magistrates in operation, 100 will not be replaced in 2015. In total, over five years, 400 retiring magistrates would not be replaced. The situation would be similar in transplants. Minister, I would like to take stock with you of this issue. Justice executives are often announced to be significantly renewed due to many retirements. How do you plan to deal with it? Do you confirm the non-replacement of some magistrates? Is the same true of the clerks? If so, is the non-replacement rate announced by the Association of Magistrates' Union correct?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u47	Mr President, I am obviously well aware of this problem. For this reason, I have decided to meet personally, both at the level of the public prosecutor's office and at headquarters, with all the heads of corps, presidents and divisional prosecutors to discuss recruitment priorities with them and to decide on the order of urgency of the vacant functions to be filled within their jurisdiction. I'm starting this series of meetings tonight. I found it appropriate to invite also the chief clerks and the chief secretaries. I asked the Chiefs of Staff to provide an update on the current situation of the staff and their views on how to fill vacancies for magistrates and judicial personnel, taking into account the budgetary context and the cost of recruitment. It is only after this consultation and a dialogue with the colleges that a summary of the priority applications can be prepared. I intend to defend the case of justice during the next budgetary control by accompanying it with a bill to reduce the workload. It is still too early to comment on the pace of savings that I will present.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u48	Minister, I agree that you inherit a difficult case and the consequences of the choices or non-choices of your predecessors. You will agree with us that the situation is catastrophic and that, in a democratic state, justice is essential to living together. Last week, we experienced very serious events in a neighbouring country. One of the responsibilities in a State is to allow persons involved in a trial, whether they are a defendant or a plaintiff, to be tried in a relatively rapid manner. I appreciate you going down to the field and meeting with each other to find solutions. You explained that you are working in a budget framework that is known. We can't bleed stones. A series of tasks essential to the rule of law and solidarity are therefore no longer encountered in our country today, as a result of this fiscal straitjacket. This applies to Justice as well as to other cases. Collectively, your government needs to be aware of the situation. I also regret that you did not have a specific answer to the situation in Namibia. I agree that my colleagues from other provinces are also asking questions. Namur is not the only province affected by this situation. Nevertheless, at some point, you must be able, territory by territory, to provide concrete answers to the questions that are being asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u49	Minister, thank you for the answers. In the last few months, you have been able to see the state of justice and the obligation to find ways to respond to all these departures. I hear you're starting the field meetings today to draw up these lists. We'll pay attention to it. I hope that Parliament will be informed quickly about the priorities you intend to give with regard to recruitment in the various provinces. I also hope that you will get the means you intend to ask for to expand these recruitments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u50	Mr President, Minister, the French press largely echoed, in October 2014, the Kazakhgate's so-called investigation into suspicions of retrocommissions under the contract signed in 2010 by French companies in Kazakhstan. This investigation, also known in Belgium as the Chodiev case, would possibly involve our country, since these retrocommissions would have been used for the "corruption of foreign public officials", in this case Belgian agents. These are potentially serious and, at the very least, disputing facts, which cannot leave Belgian justice indifferent. Without going into the details of a case that is being investigated in a neighbouring country, the content of which was set out in the article of the newspaper Le Monde of 8 October last (annexed to my question), I would like to know whether this case has implications in our country, either in the form of a French request for mutual legal assistance with Belgium, or by way of information or investigation, at the initiative of the Belgian justice system. Mr Minister, has the Belgian State received a request from France for mutual legal assistance on this Kazakhgate case, in connection with the charge of bribery of foreign public officials? If so, on what date? What action has been taken? Irrespective of such a request, is this information or education at Belgian level and, if so, who took the initiative? Can you tell me his status? What are the ways in which this is done? Has an investigating judge been appointed? What are the next steps in this file and the forecasts of its completion time?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u51	Dear colleague, you will understand that under the strict separation of powers, it is up to the prosecutor's office to determine which elements of an investigation can be disclosed. Here is a summary of the elements as forwarded to me by the Public Prosecutor's Office regarding the file you are asking me about. The French judicial authorities have sent a request for mutual legal assistance to the Belgian authorities. This rogatory commission was entrusted to an investigating judge of the French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels. Investigation duties were carried out by the Federal Judicial Police from June to September 2014. On the occasion of this letter rogatory from the French judicial authorities, the Central Office for the Suppression of Corruption (OCCR) of the Federal Police issued an initial report which was received by the Prosecutor's Office of the King of Brussels on 31 October 2014. This initial report led to the opening of criminal information for X, which is currently under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u52	Minister, thank you for this information. While these are relatively brief, I note two important elements, namely the existence of a French rogatory commission, which shows, since the indictment is subsequent to it, that there are elements justifying this investigation, and the fact that the prosecutor deals with the case. Let justice do its job, but this case has a significant potential impact, including in Belgium. You can count on me, within the framework of respect for the separation of powers, to follow him closely as a member of the House.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u53	Mr President, you have attached my question No 1348 on radicalization in prisons to these questions. That's normal. But you also wanted to add my question No. 1347 on intelligence services. I hope that this is not the case because these two questions have nothing to do with one another. On the one hand, I am talking about prisons and, on the other, about State Security. I ask that these questions be disjointed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u54	Okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u55	Minister, the previous speaker mentioned the strict separation of powers. I would like to say in advance that I come from a meeting in which everyone was talking about radicalism and unity in policy. I come from a meeting in which we talked about the succession of persons who have returned to our country. It is a very difficult and sensitive theme. I can assure you, Minister, that I have seen a dossier which I say is threatening to the State. The way in which the Justice Department deals with information and, above all, does not pass it on, creates insecurity. I'll get you the data. I hope you find time to look at them. It's vengeful. Minister, it does not cost any euros to keep agreements. Appointments are made, but are absolutely not respected. I wanted to say that in advance, because it is very high to me that we are at risk in this way with people returning to our country. Having said that, you have announced measures that have already been discussed very much. I am referring to the problem of radicalism, radicalisation and recruitment in prisons. I think we need more capacity. We derive that from the distress call of the chief consultant, Said Abarkan. He indicated in the newspaper that there are a lot of shortages to be able to work efficiently in this area. The idea is now months and even years old. We learn from the Paris drama and also from events in our midst that there is effective very heavy recruitment and radicalisation in many institutions. Mr. Secretary, do you have any insight into the need? You could measure that, because this is about an Islam consultant. Which target groups are we talking about? How many Muslim believers are in our prisons? Do you have any insight into the number of Islam consultants active today? How many more would you like to appoint? How many have been included in the framework today? In what way does the government intend to extend this framework and recruit additional consultants? What's the timing? I put forward a number of measures, along with a number of fellow Mayors, across the party boundaries of majority and opposition in August 2013, and I can only conclude, along with my fellow Members, that very little has been achieved. For the record, that is not your responsibility, it is a general responsibility. Finally, Minister, I would like to draw attention to a current phenomenon which I have just been reminded of in the discussions, namely radicalisation and recruitment in youth institutions, in closed institutions and in all kinds of boarding schools. I would like to take this opportunity to encourage you to make a final agreement with the regions on this, because otherwise you are threatening to mop up with the tap open. Knowing that today's radicalisation focuses on 15-, 16- and 17-year-olds, you understand that it is effectively necessary for the regions in these institutions to assume their responsibilities. I hope you can reach a final agreement on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u56	Mr Minister, my question was'redidified', I had addressed it to Minister of the Interior Jambon, but I am glad that I can and may ask them to you as well. After all, you have already proved yourself committed to the dossier in recent days, and you seem very determined to deal with radicalisation in prisons. I do not think that the framework of the question is sufficient, because I think the problem is well known. When developing the profiles of Muslim terrorists, it is very often found that they are radicalized in prison and thus their bacteria, spreading their disease to other prey. I have a number of pertinent questions with regard to this delicate subject matter. We are told that you will take anti-radicalisation measures in the very short term. Can you say anything more about these measures? It seems to us very precarious and crucial to play the ball here very briefly. What timing do you put first? In other words, how much time will it take before the decisions taken are implemented on the ground? How does coordination with the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions of the FPS Justice proceed? Finally, as the Minister for Security and Home Affairs also takes care of the dossier, I would like to know which of you is ultimately responsible for rolling out anti-radicalisation policy within the prison system.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u57	Minister, the radicalisation and recruitment of persons susceptible to radicalised messages is unfortunately a reality in our prisons. You announced a few days ago that you would come forward with a plan in that regard. You have spoken with praise in the media about the work of Islam consultants. Those consultants have contacts within the prison walls, direct contacts with people who are connected to Islam. They play a central role and can also play a crucial role in deradicalisation in prison. Perhaps you could indicate how big the problem of radicalisation is in our penitentiary institutions? How large is the target group to be discussed? You have already announced it, but I would like to hear from you again explicitly whether you intend to increase the number of Islam consultants. I read in the newspaper that there are 18 VTEs active today. How many FTEs would you like to go to? It is also important to know how the selection takes place. After all, they are individuals who will also be in contact with potential Jihadan hangers or Islam believers who can radicalise. What other measures are you considering to combat radicalisation in prisons?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u58	Minister, I have similar questions to those of my predecessor. We do not want to make a habit of asking different questions per group. However, Mr Metsu's question was addressed to the Minister for the Interior. So we don't want to overload you any more. Minister, the perpetrators of the terrible attacks in Paris proved to have been effectively radicalised in the cell to Muslim extremists. Not only in France but also here in Belgium it is found that some Muslims become radical Muslims especially after their stay in prison. You were aware of that problem before. The coalition agreement also addressed the problem of radicalisation and terrorism. However, just after the attacks last week, you came forward with the Radicalisation Action Plan. Among other things, you will continue to focus on the Muslim consultants. They must combat radicalisation within the prison walls. The effect of this may be further enhanced. We also need to pay more attention to the separation of extremist Muslims. There will also be a criterion that determines how high the risk of radicalisation is, in order not to put the leaders together with young Muslims. Minister, could you explain your plans to counter radicalisation in prisons? What are your specific actions? What is the budget against these plans? What's the timing? In what way does your placement policy take place? Have certain prisoners recently been moved in the framework of extremism? How many prisoners are we talking about? Mr Bonte has rightly said that an actua debate is currently taking place in the Flemish Parliament. It's a problem that doesn't fall within one department. The Secretary of State for Privacy has just answered a number of questions about terrorist threats. However, there is also a need for cooperation with the Länder, with the Minister of Welfare and with the Minister of Education. Of course, cooperation with the Minister of the Interior is necessary. Are you planning consultations or has someone else taken the initiative for consultation in order to develop one major plan against radicalisation? Are there enough Muslim consultants? The answer may be no. Do you plan to raise that number? Are additional Muslim consultants being trained? Do you have any other concrete measures? In the media, you indicated that you would broaden the scope of the law on the telephone tap or other special detection methods.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u59	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, radicalisation in prisons is not a new phenomenon. It is also not the prerogative of Belgium, although it has increased in our country due to a very worrying overcrowding and staff restrictions. I will return to that point. However, under these conditions, it is not possible to give work to prisoners, a work that can effectively counter the phenomenon of radicalization. Why is this not a new phenomenon? Why does this exist, whether it is the radicalization of Islam or its orientation towards serious crime? Because prison is a land of despair. In view of this despair, those who bring answers to more sensitive minds, leading them to radicalize themselves, see their task facilitated. The same is true in some neighbourhoods where social despair is total. There are men and women who are more easily embezzled. Prison is therefore a breeding ground for radicalization. In doing so, you have to see how you can act, which is really not easy. Like some of my colleagues, I would like to know whether you have a report on this phenomenon in Belgium. We know that he is more present in some prisons than in others. Can the conclusions of such a report help to find solutions? You mentioned a few solutions, including isolation. What do you mean by isolation? Is this isolation as it is understood in the usual disciplinary regime, i.e., to place inmates in solitary confinement for a specified period of time? Are you thinking of a specialized prison? But then, for whom exactly? Do you think of high-security neighbourhoods, as there was for some time for very dangerous inmates – an idea that has been abandoned since then? What exactly are you thinking about when you talk about isolation? Finally, who are we going to isolate? If they are people who have been convicted of terrorist-related acts, there are very few in our country. On the other hand, the phenomenon of radicalization is relatively broad and, gradually, the number of prisoners attracted to this fanaticism raises many questions. How can a policy of isolation really be pursued? I don't have an answer to that. On the other hand, I believe that all this socio-cultural work towards reintegration, with prisoners, is essential to give them hope. Are we going to talk about this? Are we going to talk about Muslim counselors? Is their number sufficient? How can they be supported in their work? They are only present from time to time in prison while the more fragile prisoners are confronted daily with discourses of radicalization. What is your strategy in terms of budget, consultation, time line? I am referring here to the consultation with the prison world but also with the Regions and Communities, in the framework of partnerships with the prison which are more than effective in avoiding radicalisation and promoting reintegration.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u60	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank my fellow Members, because they have already given the whole explanation and I will not, of course, repeat it. Mr Minister, there are still two things that interest me most. First of all, how does placement policy happen now? How will you do that wisely? What can we actually imagine? Secondly, my attention and interest goes, of course, to the extension of the detection methods you have announced. I would have liked a little more specific information on this. Is that in your potpourri, in the general reform? I'm interested in that, and I'll find out in a minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you have asked more questions than I can answer. I do not want to pretend that we will reinvent the wheel. Indeed, we have had a radicalisation plan since 2006 and the Integrated Security Framework Paper has been in place since 2004. Under a 2014 law, that framework paper will have to be the subject of consultations with the Communities and the Regions. Indeed, the 2014 Law confirms a cooperation agreement. The intention is therefore to adapt the radicalisation plan within the government to current needs, because 2006 has been a long time ago. The Internal Security Framework Paper dates back to 2004 and needs to be adapted, in line with the government agreement, and I hope that this can be done before the 2016 National Police Plan, but it goes without saying that we will have to do so within the framework of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Security, and that can be a work of some breath. It goes without saying, as well as the deradicalisation within the prisons which seems to me to be the central point in all your questions, that other measures will be taken by the government. Some fellow Members have raised questions about eavesdropping or the extension of the possibility of listening to certain acts, such as recruitment in a certain way or the encouragement of terrorism, which have not yet been qualified as a crime. This will probably be the subject of consultations within the government on Friday. So you will allow me to focus on the issue of radicalisation in prisons. There too, we do not invent the wheel because it has been deradicalising for a long time and a number of steps have already been taken. I'll try to distinguish what's new and what's not. In any case, you are clear that, no matter how much it should work with the other ministers and with the Communities and the Regions, Justice is only responsible for the pillars of detection of radicalising and radicalised detainees and for counter-measures from a detention perspective. The Social Prevention Pillar has been devoted to the Länder. It is precisely there that the cooperation agreement requires us to cooperate. This should be done within the framework of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Security and Enforcement Policy. I would point out that the Consultative Committee on 28 January is more than likely to prepare this inter-ministerial conference. As regards deradicalisation in prisons, a number of concrete measures have already been taken in the past. First, the police, security and intelligence services have given some members of the prison system a start of training on the radicalisation problem. There is already cooperation between state security and the prison system, including within the framework of the Radicalism Action Plan, which I have just spoken to you about. I may have said wrong radicalisation. The two are used by each other. That's not neat, but it's true. The OCAD, the police and the Crisis Centre are logically involved in this exchange of information and there are also agreements between the prison system and the federal prosecutor regarding the exchange of useful information. You asked me for figures on the number of Muslims in Belgian prisons. My penitentiary administration doesn't keep a record of that. So I can't give you a concrete answer. However, Belgian prisons have a population of 35, which is called Islamic fundamentalism-bound terro-convicts. As far as the future is concerned, I can say the following. The number of Islam consultants should today be 18 full-time equivalents. Although they are 19, today only 16.45 full-time equivalents take the place of the 18. At present, an appeal procedure is under way against the advice of the Finance Inspectorate to the Minister for the Budget to complete this framework up to 18 full-time equivalents. Yesterday I met the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking representative of all Belgian Islam consultants. The consultants must now form a formation at EPI, the penitentiary administration. They have to sign up to the Muslim execution charter and take a theological exam there. They're being screened by State Security to get a security clearance inside the prison. The same applies to the nine Islam consultants who voluntarily provide assistance in prison on top of those I have just mentioned. It is very important that there are sufficient Islam consultants, precisely because a regular, regular, weekly organisation of the worship prevents certain radicals from declaring themselves imam and organising an unofficial cult. In the context of the Justice Plan that I promised to this committee, I will deal with this. That doesn't just apply to Islam consultants. I believe that the consultants of the various religious tendencies and also of the liberal spirit in our prisons are doing little miracles. Recently they received the prize of the Human Rights League as alternates of those who died in prison, and that was a very rich emotional moment that was in any case appropriate. As far as the future is concerned, I think it is important for Islam consultants to be involved in a different way than merely in the context of individual consultation and the organisation of worship. The training of prison staff started in 2012. The objective is to increase the observation potential of penitentiary officials in order to detect problems in a timely manner, but also to develop an adapted, individualised and secure detention and probation pathway. The theme of radicalisation will become a permanent part of the basic training of penitentiary staff and specialised staff will be given more advanced training. What we particularly want to be innovative in is the placement of those who could invite radicalisation or are very prone to radicalisation. At the moment the placement is done ad hoc and a bit random. The aim is to change this in the near future and to opt for a two-track policy and to integrate the detainees as much as possible into the ordinary departments and not to confront those who do not represent a risk in this way with radicals or highly susceptible to radicalisation. On the other hand, prisoners who pose a serious risk of radicalisation or who engage in armed struggles will have to be dealt with on religious and/or ideological grounds and will be provided with a specialised framework. It will consist not so much in isolation, but mainly in concentration of those people in special departments of general detention homes, one in the north and one in the south of the country. If necessary, this specific treatment will be complemented by security measures, but that is not the basis of the approach. I believe that in this way, both in terms of formation and in terms of concentration, I have indicated enough to complement the already existing radicalisation measures. Of course, we will organise an even more thorough and structured exchange of information between the prisons, the police and the security and intelligence services. In the framework of the cooperation agreement with the Communities, this will have to be done even more clearly with the prevention services at the local level. As far as the internet use of prisoners is concerned, the internet is currently banned in prisons. Article 77 of the Basic Law provides that prisoners are entitled to read, as long as this is not prohibited by law, and that certain reading may be prohibited only if strictly necessary for order and security. Only when it is clear about writings that are illegal, specifically call for violence, glorify violence and so on will there be intervention. There are, of course, checks on this and a careful examination at regular intervals of the libraries in our prisons is appropriate. I can still say a few words in French about the more general approach to radicalism. I shall return to the specific question No 1347 in another answer. As I said, the instrument is the Radicalism Action Plan (R Plan) adopted by the Ministerial Committee on Intelligence and Security in 2006. It concerns the detection of radicalism and the taking of concrete measures vis-à-vis individuals and groups already radicalized. It is a good instrument but it needs to be developed and updated to take account of recent developments. The objective is to coordinate the activities of all services and to circulate information. A revised R Plan will therefore be proposed to the government in the near future. The fight against radicalism involves a coordinated approach at the federal level and the federated entities. Of course, the exclusively safe approach is not enough. Measures in the areas of employment, education, social affairs and youth support are needed. The Communities and the Regions are increasingly working there. I will launch an inter-ministerial consultation with the Minister of the Interior to involve our colleagues from the federated entities and facilitate the coordination and exchange of information between the different levels of power. I will propose an amendment to the specific methods of research. The aim will be to allow these methods for terrorism-related offences included in the Criminal Code by the Act of 18 February 2013: incitement, training and recruitment to terrorism. In addition to the prison measures, the revision of Plan R, the consultation with the federated entities and the specific research methods that you have addressed in your questions, you also asked me what other measures were planned. I can tell you that I intend to make further progress in three short-term areas: the criminalization of travel for terrorist purposes, the implementation of the existing national asset freeze mechanism and the transmission of judicial information to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in order to allow the refusal to issue or the withdrawal of passports of persons linked to terrorism. I hope I have answered most of your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. I am surprised that there is no insight into the number of Muslim believers, because that is one of the first questions on the sheet when it comes to internment. So it's obviously registered, but it's unrecorded. That's a little weird. Minister, I have three comments to make. Firstly, I have heard well that the decision to extend the Islamic consultants is that the framework will be filled in, that there has been an appeal against the fact that there are 16.4 and that we are going to 18. Is that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u63	You did not understand that, Mr Bonte. I have just said, in my desire to respond as correctly as possible, that 16,45 out of 18 is currently filled in. Those 1.55 are currently working voluntarily. An appeal to the Minister for the Budget is pending. I will propose an extension of the framework to the government in the light of the plan of justice I have just announced.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u64	We must therefore see the extension of this framework in the longer term. I will come back to this later on in terms of timing. Secondly, and unfortunately, I am speaking from experience of seeing people leave and returning in anticipation of their trial, we have been able to see effectively that there has been a radicalisation process in the prisons, that people have also been recruited. Let me give you an example of the complexity of this. A minor just got back from an institution. The reaction of the institution was due to ignorance. People didn't know what to do with that person. It's about someone who's radicalized. A young woman has been isolated. One has left a young woman to her fate because of the fear of intoxication of the other residents. Well, I can assure you that the result is that she has come out much more radically. I'm just saying that it's really a delicate problem and that the approach depends on one person to another. I should therefore like to warn against laying down general views in this respect, because that can be very counterproductive. I find it particularly dangerous that there should be some kind of analysis that determines that someone would be potentially very radical. If they are excluded, they may become even more radical. So I would be very careful with the methodology. My third comment ends with what I started. Don't get me wrong, but you repeat what I heard the previous Justice Minister say, namely that there will be work to improve the flow of information between justice, police, security services and so on. I am now going back to a meeting where the Justice Department imposes measures or decisions on a returned, radicalised person in anticipation of his trial, in which there is no communication and no communication to police supervision. That is the reality on the ground, and that is a completely irresponsible attitude that leads to additional risks. I'll give you the details tomorrow, but that's the situation on the field. I brought that to the attention of the previous one, and I am doing it again now. Your final point should be all the way up front, especially in the current acute nervous period. The exchange of information between Justice and the police forces should be organised.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u65	Minister, your answer was very clear. I do have one more comment that might be interesting for next Friday's government consultation. Belgium has good experiences with trauma psychologists. I am thinking, for example, of Erik de Soir, who has already been deployed to help and guide our returned soldiers in their reintegration. Perhaps it is not foolish to strengthen the team of Muslim consultants with such trauma psychologists who can then take care of the deradicalisation and reintegration. For the rest, I can only thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u66	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the comprehensive answer. I believe that the Minister's answer clearly shows the need for Islam consultants. Looking at the figures, 18 consultants for 35 potentially radicalised people, it is clear that we cannot be sufficiently committed to that target group. In doing so, we must avoid that self-declared imams or consultants take on these tasks. Minister, you say that there must be sufficient consultants. I assume that you will fill that in and that this selection will be done in a professional way. I would like to mention one more point of interest. In terms of deradicalisation in prisons, we must also pay sufficient attention to the social networks of those concerned. I'm mainly talking about the family. We must also involve them. It's good that the prison staff is being trained, but I would also like to bring family and friends into this story.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u67	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your detailed reply. I also asked Secretary of State Tommelein this afternoon about allowing companies to control workers who are at risk of terror. He said what you just said, in this case, that we should not reinvent the wheel. That's right! We must not panic in thinking of all kinds of new measures, but look at what legislation already exists and ask ourselves whether we cannot tighten them up or extend them. The wheel may not need to be reinvented, but it may need to be pumped up a bit. At first I thought, like Mr Bonte, that you would be satisfied with the full completion of those 18 full-time equivalents, so raising 1.55. Luckily, however, there was a "but" in your speech. This reassures us that you will be advocating an extension of these Islam consultants during the consultations with your fellow Members. Some research has taught me that these Islam consultants are actually properly screened. The security of the State is following this very closely. So we really should have confidence in that. I think it is people who know better than we do where the boundary lies between the normal confession of Islam and extremism. We have a good feeling about that. I believe that this is the slope we have to walk, the increase in their number. There was a discussion about whether we should isolate the extremists or whether we should group them and concentrate them. I honestly don't know either. I believe that the ad hoc slope is actually the best. Minister, I would like to make a suggestion, not to oppose it, because I believe that in this whole story the opposition between the majority and Parliament and the government is not right, just as it is not in France. It is actually a we-she-story, we against any form of extremism, in this case Muslim extremistism. However, one must also dare to evaluate. Now you choose concentration, but this must be followed very strictly. Perhaps it is just ad hoc, case by case, to see whether isolation or concentration is useful. We must be on their heels.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u68	Mr President, I would like to look back on what Mrs Smeyers has just said. I think it's important. A whole series of announcements have been made. We will also be waiting for the consultation at the Interministerial Security Conference on 28 January. The debriefing of decisions taken or prepared at this interministerial conference will certainly be interesting. As many as four bills have been referred to, they will certainly be of importance in advance, as well as the revision of Plan R. There is this whole issue of Muslim counsellors and socio-cultural staff, in relation to the Communities, who are doing a very remarkable job in prison. But the central question is the one that has just been asked: should measures be taken to isolate and concentrate radicalized prisoners? In this context, it would seem to me important that in the Committee on Justice we, together with the minister, be able to benefit from the testimony of those able to answer this question: in the prison environment, what is the best solution compared to a phenomenon of radicalisation? You quoted the number of 35 inmates; I am astonished: only 35? I thought the phenomenon was wider. There are those who are radicalized at the beginning, those who have become radicalized and influence their prison environment. Can it really be said that by isolating these 35 inmates, the problem is solved and the phenomenon does not exist? Or is it more complicated than that? It seems to me that this must be much more complicated. Mr President, I urge you to be able to carry out this work in collaboration with the Minister of Justice, in order to understand what would be the best answers according to the players in the prison world. This is not the first time that would happen. We have already said that for other types of prisoners, mixing them with 'usual' criminals is nonsense and that perhaps the prison system should be adapted. Here too, there is a question of adapting the prison system to a phenomenon of radicalisation. Like doing it? I believe that this is a substantive discussion which certainly deserves to be expanded in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u69	I note with interest your proposal, which I find particularly useful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u70	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. For the search methods, I'll be patient. What strikes me in your answer is that it remains very difficult to get the right figures within the prison system. However, measuring is always known. It is therefore high time, in the current era, that the figures are finally kept up to date and that the prisoners are properly measured. This is important, especially as it will enable action to be taken and measures to be taken. In order to tackle deradicalisation within prison too, I would like to make a very specific suggestion that we should look at Germany, where there is a very successful programme, which is aimed at young people. But it works there. Perhaps it would be useful for us to look at the way in which we are doing things abroad when we take measures. We do not have to reinvent the hot water when it already works elsewhere. Maybe that can be a solution for us, too. When all the measures are in place, perhaps something can finally happen preventively and perhaps we can avoid certain things in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u71	Mr President, Mr Minister, we have seen in events that have bloodshed France that one of the major questions to be asked was the budgetary and operational means of the intelligence services and the bodies responsible for monitoring potentially dangerous persons. In this regard, State Security and military security services are of paramount importance, both in the monitoring of problematic persons and in the monitoring of writings, pamphlets or sites that can be found on the Internet. I sincerely believe that we will be able to draft all the bills that we want, but until the intelligence services are effective enough, we will simply react to the event rather than prevent it. We know that these services are not sufficiently provided. They have, for example, major difficulties in ensuring all translations or in reviewing websites. The government has planned, in its budget work, to plan the budget of the State Security and the OCAM. In this context, based on what has happened and on the lessons we can learn from French events, we can ask ourselves whether it is not necessary to introduce exceptions so that our police, but also intelligence, are sufficiently equipped to deal with a phenomenon that is modernising day after day using increasingly formidable techniques. To counter this threat, our services must become reliable partners. How? Do you think that the State Security, the OCAM and the army's intelligence service have sufficient resources? Should they be content with it or should they revise their methods of action? Are there any discussions with these services? This seems essential to me if we want to be effective in the fight against terrorism, if we do not want to do some very good work, but to do some substantive work with services that must demonstrate their effectiveness.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u72	Mrs Onkelinx, I am somewhat confused because of the fact that the issue was attached to others on the agenda. Of course, I will answer that, but perhaps not as detailed as you would have liked. The asset of State Security lies in the experience of the service in matters of extremism and terrorism. This experience has been accumulated for decades of work on these subjects. The Sûreté has good human sources, a major asset in the fight against extremism and terrorism, and has been able to do more work in recent years thanks to BIM methods. Challenges and gaps come together. Like other intelligence services around the world, the Sûreté is facing an upsurge in extremism and international terrorism, while the resources available to the service have not changed. As I announced at last Thursday's plenary session, we decided not to save money and security personnel in the fight against terrorism. Reductions in personnel and resources within the Security Force will therefore not be carried out in a linear manner. As for short-term international collaboration for the exchange and sharing of information between European partners, the main priority affecting my competences and those of the Minister of the Interior, the two key instruments are the transmission of Europol information in order to enable the analysis of information from all Member States and to help in return national surveys – Belgium transmits a lot of information, but this is not the case everywhere – and the feeding of the Schengen information system. This also requires consultation of the system at the external borders, which we have proposed at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u73	I will, of course, come back to the matter, because what you are saying does not seem to me to be in line with reality. You cannot isolate "terrorism" activity at the level of a service such as State Security. When you realize savings in information technology or external personnel, this necessarily has an impact on the security's "terrorism" activities. When financial means are diminished, especially for your sources, this has an implication for the security's "terrorism" activities. You had imagined, Mr. President, joining questions that, as you see, had nothing to do with each other. I think we'll have to go back to the subject. I believe that, on the contrary, our intelligence services need to be supported more than at present. It may be appropriate to carry out comparative work with that of sister bodies in comparable countries at European level, and to re-evaluate the needs, whether at budgetary level or at the level of the performance of the State Security.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-14-54-commissie-ic055x.u74	Some questions are transformed into written questions, others are deferred.
