ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u1	Madam Secretary of State, during the past legislature, a letter had been sent to all local authorities in the country reminding them of the importance of enforcing parking spaces reserved for persons with disabilities. In this circular, we can find all the measures in force under the road code as well as the penalties imposed by sworn agents for any misuse of this type of location. It also lists the rules in force concerning the issuance of parking cards for beneficiaries such as the granting and conditions for obtaining the card, the use permitted and the validity period of the card and the obligation to return the card in the event of the death of the holder. Madam Secretary of State, my questions are very specific in order to obtain figures in order to have a clear and precise view of the situation. How many applications for parking cards have been submitted over the past five years? How many cards are actually granted? In the event of the death of the cardholder, does the regulation provide for the obligation to return the card to the municipality or the FPS? In addition, is there a specific formal procedure within the federal and communal administrations to recover this card? How many parking cards have been returned in the last five years? What is the number of invalid cards due to the death of the holder who is still in circulation? We know that figure can be quite high. Are you considering taking action to get the cards recovered or returned? Do you know if people who make inappropriate use of a special parking card are being prosecuted? Is a VP trained by the police? If you have any statistical information, you can send it to me in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u2	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u3	Perfect, I wanted us to address this theme, perfect...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u4	There is no systematic collection of expired parking cards by the Directorate-General for People with Disabilities (DG HAN). In case the expiry date of the parking card is reached, it is the responsibility of the cardholder to return it to DG HAN. In the event of the death of the cardholder, it is up to the close relatives to return it to DG HAN for destruction. At present, there are about 200,000 parking cards for dead people, which have not been returned to DG HAN. No systematic collection of expired parking cards is organised by DG HAN, nor, moreover, cards of deceased holders. These parking cards thus remain recorded in the DG HAN database as "expired but not returned parking cards". This figure covers unremitted cards of persons who have died in the last 25 years. In the fall, my administration will launch a specification to carry out a study on the technological means used by other countries to prevent a parking card from still being used after the holder's death. For police and courts, monitoring the use of a parking card and sanctioning abuse is not a major task. I do not have any statistics on the minutes that would have been drawn up, since this is not within my competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u5	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. This is an important figure: 200,000 cards not returned. It is known that, in some cases, these cards are no longer used, but in others, their use is fraudulent. It is essential to be able to guarantee the access of persons with reduced mobility to these parking places provided for them. This was the subject of particular attention in your policy guidance note. You had committed yourself in three directions. I can only encourage you to work in this direction and to set up a procedure for returning these cards very quickly, perhaps by working with the local level. In the event of death, for example, a letter could be sent directly to the families requesting the return of these cards to the municipal administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u6	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u7	It's probably the most efficient and the least expensive way. Do you have any idea when you would start this new procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u8	We have sought a solution (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u9	Is that a whole new measure then? In any case, setting this up was one of the objectives in your policy brief. 200,000 cards... can you tell me what article you refer to in relation to that? [[(...):...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u10	But there may be no obligation to do so. On the ground, in any case in my rural commune, we encounter difficulties.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u11	The municipality can choose. That is why we are now considering a binding measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u12	Madam Secretary of State, pursuant to the Act of 27 February 1987 on allowances for disabled persons and the Royal Decree of 22 May 2003 on the procedure and arrangements for such allowances, allowances for disabled persons shall be paid after a medical examination from the first day of the month following the application. The amount shall be calculated on the basis of the degree of disability of the applicant, as recorded during the medical examination. The Disability DG may revise this allowance in accordance with certain circumstances as determined in the Royal Decree. This is the case with an initial decision to grant the allowance made following an examination, the medical aspects of which are temporary or evolutionary in nature. As a result, the amount of the allowance could be reduced or increased as a result of this medical review. This new allowance shall take effect on the first day of the month following the date of notification of the decision. In the event that the allowance is increased due to a worsening of the medical condition, the Federal Ombudsman considers that this date of taking a course is detrimental to the disabled person. Indeed, the latter receives the supplement only from the moment the new decision was taken, while its condition may have worsened well before – and we know that the time between the examination and the notification can be long. However, the right to an adequate standard of living advocated by the United Nations Convention on Persons with Disabilities requires them to receive as soon as possible the supplement of allowances which compensates for the worsening of their medical condition. Madam Secretary of State, is it your intention to adapt the regulations to the recommendation made by the Federal Ombudsman? Do you intend to consult with the sector to address this recommendation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u13	Mrs Winckel, the right to a disability allowance is calculated taking into account the degree of reduced capacity and the degree of limitation of autonomy. If this medical assessment is based on provisional or evolutionary elements, the entitlement to the allowance shall be automatically revised. Its effective date is the first day of the month following the new decision. Moreover, while the new medical assessment gives rise to a reduced duty, it does not allow recovery. In addition, in case of increased duty due to the deterioration of the medical situation, no arrears will be paid. In order to solve this problem, it has recently been decided to initiate the examination as part of the medical review planned four months before the expiry of the validity of the current medical assessment, so that the decision can be taken no later than the expiry date of the medical recognition. The decision is therefore anticipated, so that a possible increase may also be granted earlier. On the other hand, a person with a disability can still apply for a review if his medical situation has deteriorated. The disabled person must not, of course, wait until the expiry date of the medical recognition. The new application and the increase in the associated allowance shall then take place on the first day of the month following the submission of the new application. We are currently considering the possibility of adapting the legal provisions so that the disabled person no longer has to apply for a review in order to claim an increased entitlement to an allowance because of the deterioration of his medical situation, but that he simply has to communicate the change in his medical situation in order for a new examination to be carried out. The increased allowance could then be granted from the first day following the month of that declaration.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u14	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the new report of the World Economic Forum on Gender Equality ranks Belgium 10th out of 142 countries. If we are not to be ashamed of this ranking, we also know that progress is still to be made, particularly with regard to equal pay. According to the latest reports of the Institute for Gender Equality, women earn an average of 10 per cent less per hour than men. If the wage gap is calculated on an annual basis and the effect of part-time work is taken more into account, then the wage gap is 22%. As we also know, a significant part of the wage gap cannot be explained and is not based on objective elements, but is based on prejudices and stereotypes that lead to gender discrimination. The consequences of wage inequality for women are important: they are unjustly exposed to an increased risk of poverty during their working lives but also at the time of retirement, since their pensions will be de facto lower. On 22 April 2012, the parliament voted with great satisfaction a law aimed at reducing the wage gap between men and women. Through the complementarity of measures involving all levels of social consultation, we therefore wanted to make the wage gap visible and negotiable. The work done at the time in the Social Emancipation Committee to bring this text to fruition had been enormous. The result was an important step forward which the Socialist Group had long hoped for. A bill was then introduced and passed to make technical amendments and adaptations that would be useful for the effective implementation of the Act. Among the various measures contained in the Act was the obligation for companies to disaggregate data from their social balance sheet, including extra-legal benefits by sex. According to some information, it appears that many companies have failed to comply with this obligation. Madam Secretary of State, it is true that my presentation is long enough, for a rather short question, but which I think is really important. Can you tell us how many companies have fulfilled their obligation by filing a social balance sheet properly broken down by sex?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u15	Mr President, Article 4 of the Act of 22 April 2012 to combat the wage gap between men and women provides for the gender breakdown of a number of headings in the social balance sheet set out in the full model of the annual accounts of large companies. It specifies that the 14 items relating to the number of workers, the number of hours worked, the staff costs and the benefits granted in addition to the salaries for the previous financial year and the previous financial year, as reflected in the state of the persons employed, must be broken down by gender. He added, however, that where the number of workers concerned is less than or equal to three, the breakdown of the heading should not be carried out. The obligation to disaggregate certain items of the social balance sheet by gender does not therefore apply to the many small enterprises with staff. For the 2013 fiscal year, 24,306 companies filed an annual account using the full model. Of these companies, 7,474 do not have staff. They are therefore not required to complete the social balance sheet. Of the 16,832 enterprises completing the social balance sheet, 16,430 have broken down by gender the average number of workers (heading 1003) and the number of hours actually worked (heading 1013); 15,459 have broken down by gender the amount of staff costs (heading 1023). The absence of a breakdown of the above headings is based on the undertaking's interpretation of the exception granted by the legislator not to carry out a breakdown of a heading where the number of workers concerned is less than or equal to three. The Legal Service of the National Bank of Belgium confirmed that it was not for the bank to clarify the intention of the legislator by recommending a specific interpretation of the legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u16	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your answer. If there is a blur or misunderstanding, it would be good to dig into and clarify the situation for businesses. Reference has already been made to the need to assess the implementation of this 2012 law in a more comprehensive manner. Then you had an interest. It would be appropriate to think about this within the framework of this mandate. Mr President, I would like to turn my question No 1643 into a written question. Indeed, it was filed, already a moment ago, and progress has been made since then.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u17	Question No 1643 by Mrs Fabienne Winckel is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u18	Mr President, I cannot help but react to Mrs Winckel's question. If the Socialist Party had accepted our idea in 2012 to switch to automatic declarations, which are already made by companies, rather than wanting to stand in the social balance sheet, we would have all the information automatically. It would have been much easier for businesses, but at the time compromise had not been possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u19	Mr Clarinval, we are not going to go back to all the compromises that have not been possible for other themes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u20	Minister, I would like to ask you about the evolution of the accessibility symbol for people with disabilities, which we have known since the late 1960s. Last July, the State of New York decided to amend its legislation by adapting the logo. I don't know if you have the question in front of you, but you see the logo of the person in the wheelchair. While this new logo will not change accessibility issues, it gradually integrates into the collective unconscious the fact that people with disabilities are not mobile and frozen but are actively participating in a world that is moving more and more quickly. Indeed, here are some advantages regarding this new symbol: the position of the head bent forward indicates a notion of displacement in space. The angle of arms and elbows refers to physical energy, effort, and represents an active person status that is advancing in the world. The wheels cut insist on the movement and presence of a person on the move. The position of the legs has been advanced to provide more space between the wheel and the leg, resulting in better graphical readability. Minister, could you analyze this new logo and tell me what you think? Would you be in favour of adapting this logo to replace the one currently used in our Road Traffic Code, or at least to encourage the use of this new logo in different public places? This logo is in the public domain and is completely free of restriction and copyright.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u21	Mr President, Mr Clarinval, we must certainly welcome all initiatives that could improve the perception and integration of people with disabilities. For the use of the logo on signs, there is certainly a need for consultation with various partners, including my colleague Mrs Galant, Minister for Mobility. Is it appropriate to adapt the logo on the signs while the other logo is used for the parking card for persons with disabilities? Could this not result in confusion? With regard to the use of a suitable logo for the parking card for disabled people, we must examine this problem without causing any adverse and undesirable effects. As you probably know, the parking card model is set by European authorities. I therefore prefer to draw the attention of European bodies to the evolution of the logo for people with disabilities, in order to avoid the use in Belgium of a logo for the manufacture of a parking card which could be considered as an invalid parking card in other countries of the European Union. This would have an adverse effect on persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u22	Madam Secretary of State, thank you. I take note of the answer given to me, the necessary consultation with Mrs Galant and the possible awareness raising at European level. My idea is not to make two logos live at the same time. It is clear that confusion must be avoided. Rather, it would replace the old logo with the new one.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u23	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the text of my question begins with the following words: "On Monday, February 2, 2015, it was relayed by the press that many disabled people, who benefit from a social tariff for electricity and/or natural gas, were threatened by their energy supplier to have to pay the full price if they did not provide a paper certificate". I would like to highlight the above date by drawing attention to the fact that, since the tabling of my question, five months have elapsed. That is why I ask you, Mr President, that, from the start of the parliamentary year, the questions tabled can be placed on the agenda of this committee more quickly. Indeed, the delay between the submission of a question and its inclusion on the agenda can sometimes be long. Having said that, I wanted to ask my question today, even though I was offered to turn it into a written question because I believe that it deserves the full attention of our committee. I will, of course, adapt the text that has been transmitted to you because, since the tabling of my question, time has passed. In the meantime, I have also asked Mrs Marghem about this because she is the one responsible for energy. My goal was to cross your answers to similar questions. The question here is about the automatic rights of vulnerable people, in this case for disabled people, but also for other people. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that this measure has come from the poverty reduction plan adopted in 2008. First steps have been taken in this area, particularly with regard to the social energy tariff. However, there is still some work to be done, since a paper certificate is required from a number of persons with disabilities who are not always able to transmit the document. The aim is that all persons who are in the conditions required can benefit from this right without taking any steps. This is about the most vulnerable people, who have the most difficulty in understanding the mechanisms and procedures in place. It must be noted that prior to automaticity, according to the studies carried out, about 100,000 people with disabilities did not apply for the social rate when they were entitled to it. The aim of automaticity was, however, that all these people should have direct access to it without having to undertake complicated procedures. Articles were published in the press at the time. I don't have them in front of me anymore. The manager explained these difficulties because some electricity suppliers did not register the national registry number. I believe that some suppliers work with postal addresses and meter locations. They must identify the family situation of people living in these places. There was therefore a deficit in the transmission of information. I asked Ms. Marghem the same question, and she replied that with the FPS Economy that deals with this subject - Mr. Peeters - she encouraged suppliers to work with the National Registry number, which made it possible to clearly identify the beneficiaries. The Social Security Hub Bank can, of course, transmit all the social data it receives from social institutions to energy suppliers. My questions were and are always the following. What is the number of complaints filed during this period and possibly thereafter? What have been the developments in this issue of automaticity for several tens of thousands of people? I think it was about 50-70,000 people. What initiatives have you taken with your Energy and/or Economy colleagues since that time? Have any contacts been made to urge energy suppliers to adopt an automatic energy pricing system? In addition, Ms. Marghem referred to an evaluation. Five months later, did this assessment take place? If so, what are the results?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u24	Mr Delizée, the suggestion to turn your question into a written question was not intended to avoid an answer; indeed, the committee was often late in dealing with the questions and it was a gesture to allow you to get the answer earlier. All right! Mr Delizée, I have written to the Minister of Energy on this subject and it is up to my colleague to continue to deal with the matter. Since I brought this problem to the attention of my colleague, my administration has no longer sent me signals that energy suppliers would act irresponsibly towards those who have a limitation and benefit from the social gas and electricity tariff. Having said that, my administration still receives many questions. These questions are then forwarded to the SPF Economy, which is looking for a solution in collaboration with the energy supplier concerned. It is already a success, even if it is modest. For the rest, we must give every chance to a thorough consultation between my administration and the SPF Economy so that we can really find a lasting global solution. I am the situation very closely. According to my estimates, one in ten contacts with the front line services of my administration is now dealing with the social tariff gas and electricity. It's huge! As a former Secretary of State for People with Disabilities, you know as well as I do the rules for automatically granting the social tariff gas and electricity. The procedure consists of two parts, as explained by the SPF Economie website. An electronic data exchange takes place four times a year. The Social Security (Disabled Persons) DG, the Social Integration PPS (Integrated Income Beneficiaries) and the National Pensions Office (For the Recipients of the Income Guarantee for the Elderly) then provide information to energy suppliers through the Social Security Hub Bank. In cases where electronic data exchange does not work, energy suppliers shall send beneficiaries a paper certificate, in accordance with the Royal Decree of 20 March 2012. Everyone must be able to benefit from this right automatically without the need to issue paper certificates. All information concerning beneficiaries is available electronically. According to the law "Only Once" which will come into force on 1 January 2016, disabled people must no longer prove themselves that they can benefit from the measure, since, as I have already mentioned, the information is already available in electronic form. At a slightly longer time frame, the right to the social gas and electricity tariff should be granted even more easily. Indeed, my colleague Jan Jambon, Minister of the Interior, is preparing a bill aimed at allowing, within certain limits, access by energy suppliers to the National Register of Natural Persons. I therefore believe and hope that the consultation which my colleague from Energy will organise will produce good results.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u25	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. As far as the objective is concerned, I think we are in agreement, and finally, that this issue joins two of your cross-cutting competences: the fight against poverty, which is to help people in situations of vulnerability or fragility, and also here in a more specific way, people with disabilities. It is true that, prior to automation, about 400,000 paper certificates were produced by DG People with Disabilities. According to Mrs Marghem's answer around March, there are between 50,000 and 70,000 remaining, which is still a lot. The observation that has always been made - and that is why it was stated in a plan to combat poverty - is that a large number of potential beneficiaries, because of lack of knowledge of the law, lack of knowledge of the procedures, sometimes inability to take these steps, do not benefit from this tariff, even though it is perhaps the people who need it most. I believe that the objective we all need to have is to achieve real automaticity for all if possible, in any case to absorb these tens of thousands of cases where paper certificates are still needed. I think you have a cross-cutting competence for consultation. Of course, there is the Minister of Energy, the Minister of the Interior, who can also have powers that can be taken into account to solve the problem, the Minister of Economy who also has the tutelage on the SPF Economy. I really invite you to ensure that this consultation takes place and that you participate in it with your department. You are also concerned to give social information, in any case, to the source to remove this number of paper certificates, which is our objective. I also have a question about the evaluation. I hope that by the fall of October, we can have an idea of the outcome of this evaluation to be carried out by the SPF Economy. We could see if the trend is in the right direction and determine what measures could be taken, such as the one you indicate with the National Register, and grant these rights automatically.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u26	With respect to the assessment, I should consult Ms. Marghem because I am not aware of the results. Then I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u27	Madam Secretary of State, I do not know if the evaluation has been completed. In March, Ms. Marghem told me that an evaluation would be conducted. So my question is if it's over and if you can tell us the results? Otherwise, we will rest the question with you in October.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u28	I need to find out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u29	Minister, in the face of the fraudulent occupation of places reserved for disabled persons by holders of outdated cards, the police decided to work on a system to check the validity of parking cards reserved for disabled persons. In addition to the non-compliance with these places reserved by other users, it is the occupation of these spaces by persons who fraudulently use cards on the date of expiry or improper use of the card by the relative of a person with disabilities who sometimes died. The fact of being able to park without any time limit in the blue zone, or for free in some paid car parks is, it is true, very tempting. The SPF Social Security reports that of the 330,000 cards in circulation, 280,000 cards are fraudulent, as a result of the non-renewal of the card due to the expiry of the card or the non-restitution of the card by the family upon the death of the legitimate holder. In the area of attribution, the SPF conditions the issue of these cards to very specific situations of disability, following the submission of the application either to the communal administration, the CPAS, the Maison sociale or even mutuality. It is a single service of the SPF Social Security which, after instruction, sends the card application to the manufacturer who sends it to the applicant himself. Since 2013, a new type of more secure card, with hologram and unique serial number, has been put in place to combat abuse. Cards issued before 1 October 2005 are valid until 2015. Does that mean, Madam Minister, that all old cards are still valid, except for having been the subject of a request for cessation by the holder or her family or the seizure of the card by the police following a check and investigation of fraud? Is this the reason for the large number of cards in circulation? To update all cards in circulation by taking advantage of this 2015 validity deadline for the older ones, would it not be possible to renew the entire card by checking the validity of the application in view of the file? Would it not be appropriate to give these cards a period of validity of three years and a precise colour, allowing them to quickly determine their seniority, to equip them with a chip enabling the police and the municipalities to know immediately, by scan, whether there is fraud? How do you intend to act, minister, to allow the police to put a stop to these offences?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u30	Mr Flahaux, until October 1, 2005, all parking cards had a maximum validity period of 10 years. The cardholder was obliged to submit an application for renewal before the due date, which was difficult for them to understand, particularly for those with permanent disabilities. In order to reduce and simplify administrative formalities, it was decided that the card issued after 30 September 2005 would be of indefinite duration, unless the medical recognition on which the issue is based is limited in time. In this case, the period of validity of the card corresponds to the period of validity of the said medical recognition. This also means that parking cards issued for a period of 10 years will expire on 30 September of this year and that as of 1 October 2015, no ten-year card can yet be legally used. Persons who cannot produce an official certificate establishing that they meet the required criteria may only obtain a card or its renewal after an examination of their disability by a doctor from the Directorate-General for Persons with Disabilities, showing that they meet the conditions. It therefore seems to me unnecessary to launch a specific card verification operation with a validity period of ten years. I will draw the attention of the Minister of the Interior to the fact that, from 1 October, cards with a ten-year validity will in all cases be expired. The death of the cardholder represents, in 80% of cases, the cause of the invalidation of the cardholder. However, the fact that the holder died does not necessarily mean that the document is now being used fraudulently. Parking cards that are no longer valid must be returned to the Disabled Persons DG, but this does not happen often. In most cases, close relatives do not know the procedure. I will continue my awareness-raising work in this regard and will ask DG People with Disabilities to apply an effective method of recovering expired cards. This collection will have to take place in accordance with the family mourning process. The alignment of the term of validity of parking cards with that of recognition of disability is subject to effective control of parking cards. I mean that their use can only gain credibility through regular controls, which already exist. Some police areas take the initiative of asking DG People with Disabilities to provide them with a list of holders of a parking card who have died. Others are conducting larger monitoring and awareness-raising activities, as was the case in East Flanders in 2013. The latter operation had mainly revealed, not the fraudulent use of the card but the parking on sites by persons who did not hold a card. After consultation with my colleague the Minister of the Interior, it seems appropriate that the control of the parking card be carried out by the municipality. We insist on the application of zero tolerance for the following four abuses: fraudulent parking on a parking space reserved for disabled persons; the use of a valid parking card without its holder being on board the vehicle; the use of a expired parking card whose term validity expired, whereas the card was not returned to my administration after the death of its holder; and, fourthly, the use of a counterfeit parking card. On the basis of the Act on communal administrative sanctions, it is possible to provide for a SAC fine for the misuse of a parking card for disabled persons, provided that there is a legal basis for such use. In order to do so, I will have to take a deliberate royal decree in the Council of Ministers. This Royal Order will have to determine at least a minimum and maximum amount for this SAC fine. It will have to be drafted in collaboration with the Minister of Mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u31	Minister, I am only partially satisfied with your answer. I know, however, that you have the will to move forward. With regard to the control of the locations with regard to persons who do not have a card, have never had a card, neither their spouse, nor their parents, nor their children, etc., it is clear that the communes or police areas are better armed. Besides, in a whole series of communes, we even install signs of the type "you chose to occupy my site, so you also chose to have my handicap". I think that's the right formula. We must humiliate those who do this. This is the best method, even better than drawing up a report. However, in the case of card checks, you are - and I admire your optimism - talking about the honesty of the people who, after the death, will return the cards. I think that either out of oblivion, or because they have other occupations at that time, few will. They will leave the card in the car and the son, daughter or spouse will continue to use the card. I don't think that's reasonable, just like you, but alas, I think things will actually happen that way. Therefore, you are right to table a draft royal decree that will make it possible to be "more incentive". You have a human material that consists of the municipalities and police areas which, by means of a scan system, could very easily carry out a check. In any case, in my view, this is the best method. Indeed, I understand that cards with a 10-year maturity were not necessarily the best formula to use. Indeed, a disability can evolve in one direction or the other. That said, the best solution, in my view, is that it is the administration that determines whether a person is disabled with a system whereby a police officer has the ability to go to the home of the person concerned without having to regularly request a listing from the competent FPS. I see that the President agrees with me, which I welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, technology exists, but the difficulty lies in the fact that different administrations are involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u33	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the French Parliament has recently adopted free parking for disabled motorists with a parking card. It is also in this sense that the Brussels MPs of the MR, Vincent De Wolf and Anne-Charlotte d'Ursel have argued for the generalisation of this free of charge to the Brussels Parliament. Parking is essential to promote mobility for people with reduced mobility (PMR). It is essential that persons with disabilities be able to park and move independently in order to hope for a successful integration into public life. Making parking places pay is a brake for those people who often hesitate to leave their homes, as much as this is part of the combatant's journey. Not to mention that public transport remains, unfortunately, difficult or impossible to access for PMRs, even though STIB (I am not familiar with the De Lijn system) is making great efforts. The park meters are an additional obstacle. In Belgium, according to the Ministerial Circular on Parking Reservations for Persons with Disabilities of 3 April 2001, the provisions on free parking are laid down by the municipal councils. The circular invites the generalisation of this measure. In the meantime, it recommends that the device be clearly indicated whether or not the disabled person is exempt from payment, which is a real nonsense since he or she has to deal with the difficulty of travel. Another solution is to learn about the local regulations in force. Therefore, whenever a person with reduced mobility wishes to travel to a city, he or she must undertake research to determine whether or not he or she is entitled to free parking and thus to facilitate parking. This lack of convenience and homogeneity is, in my opinion, absurd! Madam Secretary of State, could we consider aligning ourselves with the decision taken by our large hexagonal neighbours?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u34	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Flahaux, I share your concern about the inclusion of persons with disabilities in public life. For the moment, any person in possession of a parking card for disabled persons can park anywhere in Belgium in places reserved for disabled persons and in places marked by a sign or pictogram. In some cities and municipalities, the map also allows for free parking, but it differs greatly from one city or municipality to another. In principle, each local government decides whether or not to provide free accommodation for persons with disabilities. The purely local realities and the resulting parking facilities can lead to separate policies from one municipality to another. Like you, the National Superior Council of Persons with Disabilities deplores this situation. I also refer to an opinion which the Council gave in December 2000 to the then Minister for Mobility. The reality has not changed. Persons with disabilities must always be informed of the local rules applicable to a given city or municipality. I will begin the debate with my colleagues in the government, at first instance, the Ministers of the Interior and Mobility, starting, among other things, from the French example. In my view, this debate must be accompanied by better control over the proper use of parking cards. Together with the Minister of the Interior, I am preparing a campaign that strongly underlines the responsibility of cities and municipalities in this area. I will also put this topic on the agenda of the Interministerial Committee on Disability, because, as you know, road traffic legislation has been partly regionalised.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u35	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. The current situation is a bit middle-aged. I am pleased to note that the mayor of Courtrai is a good student. That is probably why my échevine de la Mobility, which is also from Courtrai, adopts the same attitude in my city. I think it is time that, after coordination with the Regions, a similar attitude was adopted throughout Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u36	We can introduce a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u37	Mr President, I note your suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u38	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, during our hearings with the Office of the Plan in Social Affairs, it appeared that the real disposable income of households would be reduced by 1.2%, taking into account the effects of certain government measures on growth and employment. Of course, poverty is a multidimensional issue that is not limited to disposable income, but it is an important factor. Thus, a series of measures, socio-economic reforms announced or, for some, already taken by your government will inevitably have the effect of precipitating more people into poverty. I am thinking here – and these are just a few examples – of the index jump, the abolition of the pension bonus, the reduction of the maximum age to claim an application for an integration allowance, the modification of the part-time occupation regime with an additional income guarantee allowance which will be reduced by 50%. One could also mention the decline in the legal age of the pension and the risk of falling into disability or falling back on unemployment and also the tightening of access to the survivor's pension. This is a whole series of examples that may have an impact on poverty. The unemployed, the people who work part-time, and therefore mainly women, single-parent families or the elderly, i.e. all those who are at increased risk of poverty, do not seem to be spared by your government's policy. For a government which considers it unworthy to see almost 15% of Belgians living below the poverty line and which, by 2020, in the framework of European policy and poverty reduction objectives at European level, wants to reduce the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion by 380 000 at Belgian level, questions arise. And among them, one may wonder what the impact of these measures, those I have cited and others taken or to be taken, will be on the poverty rate and how many more people will fall below the poverty line as a result of their implementation, knowing their wide-ranging effects at the level of our society. Madam Secretary of State, has a measure been made of the impact on poverty in Belgium of the various socio-economic reforms decided by your government? If not, would it not be appropriate to commission an independent agency, such as the Planning Office, to conduct a study on this impact? When will the next data from the Interfederal Barometer of Poverty be known? As you know, the regulatory impact assessment is a decision support tool that allows the government, in Parliament, to better understand the impact on society and its citizens of the measures it is taking. This new tool has been used since 2013 to integrate five tests on administrative burdens, gender equality, SMEs, sustainable development and policy coherence for development. Would it not be necessary to add a poverty impact measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u39	My colleague, with regard to measuring the impact on poverty, poverty is already on the RIA-AIR test; this is even the first point on the form in the impact list. It is true that the measurement of the impact on poverty is not explicitly included in article 5 of the Act of 15 December 2013 on various provisions concerning administrative simplification, but nevertheless occupies a prominent place on the form. You can consult the form on the Agency's website for Administrative Simplification. If the decisions agreed in the government agreement are transposed into law, they will be the subject of the RIA-AIR as provided for in the law. I am examining how this process can be further strengthened. As part of the third federal plan to combat poverty, we also asked the Poverty Service and CPAS federations to carry out an analysis of the measures contained in the government agreement that could have a negative impact on poverty. Data from the Interfederal Barometer of Poverty, based on the SILC (Statistics on Income and Living Conditions) survey, are made available by the SPF Economy 20 months after the reference period. The various Belgian authorities set themselves an ambitious target in 2011. By 2020, a considerable number of people must have emerged from poverty and social exclusion. This objective is based on the AROPE (at risk of poverty or social exclusion) indicator, which has three sub-indicators: AROP (at risk of poverty) – LWI (low work intensity)– SMD (severe material deprivation). The AROP, LWI and SMD figures that together make up AROPE will be updated in the fall of 2015. These figures are based on the 2013 revenue year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u40	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I understand that there are elements that are planned to analyze the evolution of poverty and that you intend to strengthen these specific elements. However, I am tempted to ask you how this is translated into practice. So far, I do not think we have the elements that allow us to measure the situation more accurately. We have at our disposal indices of the negative impact on poverty. Studies from some universities have been carried out. They point out that poverty is likely to increase in the coming years with these measures. These measures are being taken and we will see how they will impact the various deadlines, including the fall 2015 or the 2013 revenues. There is a certain gap and we can regret that there is no real-time monitoring of poverty. I am convinced that the goal will not be achieved and that specific measures will not be taken to eradicate poverty. Rather, measures are being taken that run counter to this objective and there is no transparency in this regard. I must deplore this, even if you are not the first responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u41	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, according to a study commissioned by the King Baudouin Foundation and carried out by the Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Belgium does not integrate people of immigrant origin. The gap in the employment rate between ethnic Belgians and immigrants is one of the highest in all OECD countries. The figures from an OECD report in February 2015 show that the employment rate for Belgians is 64% but falls to 46% among non-Belgians from one of the 27 European countries. The rest are either unemployed (14%) or inactive (40%). For example, among non-Belgian men of immigrant origin who do not come from one of the European Union countries, 56% are employed, 17% are unemployed and 28% are inactive. For women in the same group, only 37 per cent are employed, 11 per cent are unemployed and 53 per cent are inactive. A Eurostat study published in August 2014 already highlighted the fact that one in two foreigners is unemployed in Belgium, our country being a bad pupil in the European Union. Discrimination in hiring, language requirements and level of training were then pointed out. However, the findings of the King Baudouin Foundation study suggest that if there was greater vertical collaboration between the federal state and federated entities and horizontal collaboration within the various government departments, Belgium could improve its performance and be less criticized by the OECD. Madam Secretary of State, what concrete measures do you envisage to improve the situation by knowing that, according to the government agreement, these will encourage equal opportunities in the labour market? They will have to pay particular attention to gender equality, people with immigration and people with disabilities, which you have just mentioned. Access to employment and skills-related remuneration remains more difficult for certain risk groups (women, foreign workers and persons with disabilities). I know that long discussions have already taken place in this committee. Could you reassure us by confirming that you will not be putting your entire policy on business self-regulation? Finally, do you think, like the King Baudouin Foundation, that vertical and horizontal collaboration within our country could be improved? If so, how?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I share your concern about the people of immigrant origin in the labour market. In my policy note, I already requested that priority be given to this target group. The study by the King Baudouin Foundation, the OECD report, the European Commission's country-specific recommendations under the Europe 2020 strategy and the economic monitoring of the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation all go in the same direction: people from immigration are more likely to suffer from poverty or social exclusion. [[The risk percentage for Belgian citizens, European citizens and non-EU citizens is 18%, 26% and 68% respectively.]] Comparing these figures with those of other European Member States with similar data, Belgium has the largest gap between Belgian citizens and citizens outside the European Union. This gap is mainly evident in the areas of employment, education and integration. Since the federated entities have important levers in this area, I will put this issue on the agenda of the next Interdepartmental Conference Integration into society so that, together with the federated entities, we can tackle poverty among people of immigrant origin. This will enable us to achieve a coordinated policy and record results. I will also take advantage of my mandate at the Interministerial Conference on Labour Market Policy, Socio-occupational and Social Inclusion, to demand attention and solutions for this target group, in the light of the recommendations, in particular, of the OECD and the European Commission, as well as foreign best practices. In my quest for good practices to stimulate the integration of people of immigrant origin, I also took the initiative to highlight the theme "Gekleurde armoede" at the 2015 Federal Award for Combating Poverty. The purpose of this annual award is to recognize those individuals, associations, companies or public administrations who contribute to the fight against poverty in their daily lives and in an original and useful way. It was awarded on July 3. The project "De Eerste Stappen" of the Federation of Moroccan Associations and the CPAS of Charleroi were celebrated in the category "Colourful Poverty". The first project focuses on the preventive support of families. The second project attempts to stem school drop-out among immigrant children. Then I'll go back to where the previous government stopped. The Royal Decree for the composition of the experts of the commission responsible for the evaluation of anti-discrimination laws of 10 May 2007 will pass to the Council of Ministers before the parliamentary holidays. The necessary implementing orders in the Royal Decree "Positive Actions" will be incorporated into this evaluation. In doing so, we are following up on the resolution to introduce targeted controls on discrimination in the labour market, which was approved last week in Parliament. In conclusion, I will continue to urge the social partners to incorporate the annex to CTC No. 38 on the prevention of discrimination on the labour market, approved in 2008 by the National Labour Council. The number of sectors that have responded to it remains particularly small.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u43	Madam Minister, thank you for your full answer and for all of my questions. We obviously agree on the diagnosis. You yourself have remembered a number of statistics by highlighting, like me, Belgium's very bad place on the European scale. I am pleased to see the many concrete actions, starting with the last one, of the trade unions. Of course, you still have work to do because some social organizations are particularly conservative in recruitment and pose problems. I encourage you to continue your work in this area. I also welcome the exemplary work. You highlight the positive initiatives that make it possible to highlight the good integration of immigrants into certain enterprises. I also welcome your commitment to holding an inter-ministerial conference. It's a great commitment and very good news. I'll finish by asking you if you've already set a schedule. When will the first meeting of this interdepartmental conference be held? With regard to the latest reform of the State, this competence for employment is increasingly in the hands of the federated entities, even if the reform is not yet integrated. There is room for debate at an interdepartmental conference. This is your responsibility as federal minister. I would like to say that this is a good development.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u44	Madam Secretary of State, my question concerns parking tickets and their control. We have already heard a number of questions and answers in this direction. The control of the use of these cards thus appears to be a huge problem. In my city, we have been using the new GAS legislation for two or three months. Drivers who are wrongly placed in a disabled person's seat will receive a gas fine. We write them out a few dozen times a month. I have heard that Antwerp and Ghent also intend to work with GAS fines for that phenomenon. So our city is one of the first in Flanders to actually do this and that works well. It's actually being checked. Only, one can only control what one can control. If one is in a disabled position and there is no card, a gas ticket will be issued. The police used to hardly do that, as in most cities and municipalities. Our parking guards are doing that all the time now. The main problem, however, is that, if there is a map, it is not possible to check whether the card is there. Then there are several possibilities. Either that card is there and the person to whom the card belongs was not transported. That's very difficult to control unless the person happens to get in or get out. This is specific to the system where a card is linked to a person and not to a vehicle. Unless that is changed, it remains very difficult to control. A second possibility is that the card expired due to death. We have just heard a number of examples, where we kindly ask for the card to be sent back but where it hardly happens. The solution could be to make the card intelligent, as I suggested to you in November 2014. When discussing the policy statement, you said that you found that interesting and would consider whether the card could be made intelligent or work via the eID. The eID does not seem to me to be an immediate solution because one has to have proof. If the card is not linked to the license plate, this will have to be done in a different way. So the idea is to make the card intelligent by putting a barcode on it. My gas fixers don't work like the police, they work intelligently. I live in one of the most efficient police zones and GAS zones in all of Flanders: more intelligent than Antwerp and then Ghent, but that is not in the news. We don't work with paperwork. All our people have handhelds, which can read QR codes and barcodes, even if they are located behind a window.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u45	Your valet?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u46	That's right. All of them. You should check it out, Madam Secretary of State. In the case of wrongly parked cars, the plates are checked in a database. The fine comes automatically on the bus. That does not involve any manual action. Nothing at all. So should the disability card contain a barcode, we would be perfectly able to check whether it is still valid or not. The barcode must be linked to a digital database in the cloud. I hope the ministries start to learn what that is. They already know email, although the fax is still being used. So if we find that a card is no longer valid, we can enforce a fine. So I suggest you make sure that the following cards you issue contain a barcode, which refers to data in the cloud. That is already the case, I hope, with regard to our driving licences. However, there is still the absurd system whereby people have to turn in their driving licences. That's ridiculous. You just need to be able to check in the cloud whether the licence is valid or not. That's what should happen. The system is similar to that of a bank card, which is blocked. If that bank card is blocked, it can't be paid anymore. Do the same with that parking card: make sure it can be blocked. In this way, major steps can be taken forward. My questions on this are as follows. What is the status of this file? Have you taken any steps in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u47	I believe that Mr Van Quickenborne is asking the same question because we are both mayors. Kortrijk is already the most intelligent city in the country, Tervuren will soon be the second most intelligent, because we are introducing a new parking policy. That is why I agree with the question. We are currently interviewing several parking companies, which will implement the plan and conduct operational policies. We will not work with guards ourselves. Everything happens electronically. It is therefore time to raise the issue, because we in Tervuren are also faced with the illegal use of places for people with disabilities. I also hear this from fellow Members of Parliament in other municipalities. However, these places are much needed for some people. Madam Secretary of State, you rightly mentioned this in your policy paper, as Mr Van Quickenborne said. Part of my question is the same. How will one control things? A barcode gets a long way. By the way, before we get there, there is now also a contact centre at the FPS Social Security Office where the police can ask about the holder of a card. However, that contact centre is not in the cloud and can only be reached on weekdays between 8:30 and 13:00. If not, one has to work via a website and one only gets an answer days later. It was therefore almost impossible to act immediately on the spot. Regardless of whether you might be working with intelligent digital cards, will the contact point where the information can be retrieved work with the cloud, so that data can be accessed more and faster than is currently the case pending a new system? Another point in my question is not about controlling the abuse but about the procedure for awarding the cards. This procedure is not optimal either. In some cases, people have to go through a whole agony several times. You had announced that you would consult with the National High Council for Persons with a Handicap to see if the procedure could not be made more user-friendly and more customer-friendly. Has this meeting with the National Supreme Court already taken place? Any conclusions on that? If you are considering a new procedure, do you have something in mind for people whose benefit is limited in time but who may need the card longer? It looks like the opposite of the situation of who dies and therefore does not need the card anymore. I am referring to people whose benefit or allowance is due to expire, but who still need such a card for physical reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u48	Mr Van Quickenborne, Mr Spoorten, I think I can learn something from you. The current state of affairs is the following. Frankly, we had hoped for the police, with which we were negotiating. The key task debate with the police is over and we have heard what we do understand, given the other priorities of the police at present, that control of the use and misuse of a parking card is not one of the police core tasks. This requires another key task debate, namely for parking guards. Consequently, we have left the track to give control of the use or misuse of a parking card to the police and the courts. In my opinion, the core tasks will soon be communicated by the police and Minister Jambon. We are currently examining the various initiatives by examining how the municipalities are responsible for effective control. To this end, we will first visit Kortrijk and Tervuren, as they are exemplary municipalities. We were thinking of two things when we checked. Firstly, municipalities should be able to intervene quickly in the event of abuse by applying the gas fines. The second point is the creation of direct access for the municipalities to the database of the Directorate-General for Persons with Disabilities, so that municipalities can quickly check whether a card is valid or not. We want to check those slopes. I call for a zero tolerance for the abuses. There are, however, several abuses, as Mr Van Quickenborne said, which makes the problem more difficult. It concerns unlawful parking in a parking space reserved for persons with disabilities. A valid parking card can also be used, but without transporting the holder of the card. Sometimes a parking card is also used that is no longer valid. In addition, counterfeit parking cards are also used There are thus different types of abuse and each of these abuses requires a different solution. The different parking policies and the different powers do not make things easier. On the basis of the GAS legislation, it should be possible to provide for a GAS fine for the unlawful use of a parking card, provided that there is a legal basis for this. We intend to present to the Council of Ministers a royal decision setting a minimum and a maximum amount for such gas fines. In this way, the municipalities can receive certain directives. On the other hand, the administration is also currently preparing a charging book for the production of parking tickets. One of the possible selection criteria could be the way in which the company believes it can use technological resources in the manufacturing process of such a parking card, so that abuses can be avoided. Such proposals should be assessed in terms of financial feasibility. Consultations should also be held with the parties concerned, as a new manufacturing process could also have an effect in the cities and municipalities. We want to complete this by July 2016. There has already been informal consultation with the National High Council for Persons with Disability, because I see its representatives very regularly. It is a very serious concern for them. In the field of parking cards, consultations with the National High Council have for the time being focused on the demand for action by police forces. We must work with them to find other solutions, because the police cannot answer that question. So we are looking for a solution through gas fines. I will certainly draw my collaborators' attention to Kortrijk's example, so that we can see if we can expand that project.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u49	Madam Secretary, it's a little strange for the Home Office to say that, because our local police do control that. We have two types of control. There is control by the GAS fixers, parking guards that are part of a municipal parking company. Commercial companies can't do that. However, I proposed this at a time when we amended the Gas Act during the previous legislature. A lot of mayors didn't think that was appropriate, but I told them that we did. Apparently, the distinction was made between municipal and commercial parking companies, where commercial companies are not allowed to do so. I find that strange, apparently people are suspicious of the commercial companies. At least I have a solution for our city. They have been making gas assessments since February of this year. That is one of our priorities. Successfully, because this is not disputed. I think we have 30 to 40 of them every month now. The second type of fixer is the police themselves. The police had noticed that the parking guards were working on that and felt that they could do the same. Meanwhile, we have also given them handhelds, smartphones like everyone else has, except the administration. They too are now making observations, with success. The big problem, I stick to, is the essence of the system: the card is linked to a person. If that car is there and the card is valid, that's true. However, we do not know that. For the same money, someone else drives XYZ's car or takes his wife's card. Is that woman with you? No one knows. I think that we need to look more closely at whether this is right. I'm thinking out loud right now. Can't a disabled person give four to five license plates of cars he's moving with? Then that is more linked to the license plate than to the person. The second point is that that card is there and we do not know whether that card is still valid or not. There, the famous barcode or QR code can provide a solution. One can even go so far that if the card is copied for forgery, a QR code is no longer valid because one can no longer scan it. Our city is now working with a digital window. This means that documents can be requested, they are transmitted digitally as PDF and printed. They contain a legible seal, but if the document is copied, that seal is no longer valid. So far today the technology goes that if you copy cards, the code is no longer readable. If you can provide for this, we are taking a huge step forward. Then you should have checks carried out by community guards or other types of GAS fixers. The fines must, I believe, be sufficiently high. Anyone who has to pay 250 euros will stop soon. A fine of 55 euros is still seen as an expensive parking ticket. That can't be the intention either.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u50	There are three aspects. First of all, control. Who's checking? I understand now that it is not considered a core task by the police. At municipal level, we can still set priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u51	Of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u52	In some cases it can also be done by parking guards, albeit privately. Which brings me to my third point, the penalty. If private parking companies and guards don't have a link to GAS fines, then we have a problem. I'm asking you to think about that with your cabinet. I suspect that in more and more medium-sized municipalities such as Tervuren people are working with such companies. If all that is not possible, then we have a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u53	You should actually ask Minister Jambon. After all, it is covered by the GAS Act. He needs to open up to private companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u54	Secondly, in between is the instrument. How will one check? I find the choice between people or cars not so simple. Even with several cars you can use other people. Madam Secretary of State, at least I welcome the fact that you have technology and the company looking for solutions in the procurement process. If the company is investigating this, it must also look at the conditions and modalities for obtaining a card. I did not receive an answer to that question. Apart from the problems of control and sanctioning, it is really not easy to use. That's what I hear from several sources. Maybe a new intelligent card can also make the application procedure a little more intelligent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u55	Now there's a centralized system. The maps are distributed in Brussels. My parking manager of Parko proposes to create it digitally and automatically and deliver it locally, at the level of the municipalities. You'll have a lot more control. There they know that Zulma has long passed away and that Jean Renard is no longer alive either. Then there's more control. Then you have to go to the municipal counter. Such information then goes around faster, especially in smaller municipalities. There is then a chance that there will be criticism from the VVSG that there will be another task for the municipalities and then money and civil servants will be needed again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u56	That is why it has not yet been resolved. We thought we had already found a solution, but reality has caught up with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u57	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, your colleague Minister Geens suggested that I ask you this question. It is a question of refusing or not refusing to accompany people with disabilities in public places and also less public places, such as general meetings of companies. Each company shall organise at least one general meeting each year, at which each shareholder shall be invited either individually or by means of a call in the media to question management and exercise his or her right to vote. That is an elementary right of every shareholder. On 26 June the general meeting of Arcopar continued. The counselor of some persons with the nervous disease MS was denied access. MS is not an easy-to-wear disease and the patients suffering from it usually have a fixed, trusted companion, often a caregiver. So that's not just the first person to be the best. One can ask serious questions about the fact that this person was refused, not only about its legality, but also about common sense, as your colleague Mr Geens said. Apparently it is a problem, but I will spare you the litany about the social face of Beweging.net, because apparently that movement is not so good. To what extent is such a refusal legal and can you, as Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, legally guarantee access for people with disabilities and their supervisor to general meetings? Is this practice contrary to the anti-discrimination law? It seems obvious to me that, in addition to professional assistance such as professional deaf interpreters, we also include carers, possibly under certain conditions, in the assistance. Today, for example, this is already done with guide dogs. They can hardly be refused anywhere, which I believe is justified. To what extent is the practice contrary to the anti-discrimination law? What is your position? Where can any interested parties deal with complaints about such discrimination?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u58	Mr President, Mr Dedecker, in the specific case to which you refer, the question is whether there is direct discrimination because the person is refused access or indirect discrimination because he is not given a reasonable adjustment. The cabinet is unable to make any conclusions on this because, of course, we do not have the right data. In order to be able to formulate a correct answer, we need different data. First of all, is the building in itself accessible? Are the floors accessible? Is the room open? Secondly, it is necessary for the person concerned to have her husband in the room or whether it is sufficient for him to accompany her to her place and then wait for her outside until after the meeting. Thirdly, has it asked for a reasonable adjustment and if so, what and when? Fourthly, how was the refusal formulated and a solution proposed? Therefore, on the basis of these questions for information that we do not have, we cannot answer them. The lady concerned would better turn to the Inter-Federal Equal Opportunities Centre for Assistance and Advice. I can tell you about the role of anti-discrimination legislation. First of all, there is the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which aims at the full participation of persons with disabilities in society by removing the barriers to such participation. In fact, the Treaty provides for reasonable adjustments. For example, the Convention requires necessary and appropriate amendments and adjustments that do not impose a disproportionate, disproportionate or unnecessary burden if they are necessary in a specific case to ensure that persons with disabilities can enjoy or exercise all human rights and fundamental freedoms on an equal footing with others. The Law of 10 May 2007 also states that in a comparable situation the person with disabilities should not be treated more negatively than the person without disabilities and also provides for reasonable adjustments to remove obstacles so that persons with disabilities can also participate in the activity or enjoy the service. The evaluation of the reasonableness of the adjustment is based on the organizational and financial cost, on the existence of compensatory measures and concessions, as in the case of changes in the labour force, but also on the investment over time and so on. In other words, in this particular case all these elements will have to be taken into account in order to determine whether the refusal to be assisted can be regarded as a refusal of reasonable adjustment and as such discriminatory. That's the theory.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u59	Madam Secretary of State, as you yourself say, that's the theory. You also point very strongly to the need for reasonable adjustments. In this case, it is about an escort and not about infrastructure adjustments. It is absolutely not about adjustments that require money or resources. It is simply a question of whether or not an additional person can be admitted, possibly under certain conditions. As I said, a professional deaf interpreter must respect an ethical code and professional secrecy; he will not cause any inconvenience or violate the secrecy of such a private meeting. Of course, such an appointment can also be made with a caregiver. That seems to me to be the most pragmatic solution, but apparently it was not understood at all. It seems clear to me that there is certainly an adverse treatment of that person here. People are actually raising a threshold to allow people to exercise their basic right as shareholders. So I will certainly suggest to the person concerned to contact the inter-federal centre.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u60	You will find that all our laws do not yet rule out all the difficulties in practice. There's also a problem with blood donation. A deaf blood donor couldn't do her explanation because no deaf interpreter was allowed in the doctor's office. Despite all our laws, therefore, there may still be difficulties in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u61	Despite the fact that the deaf interpreter is bound by professional secrecy?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u62	Despite the fact that the deaf person gave permission to the deaf interpreter to be present at the doctor's consultation, this was refused at the blood donation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u63	That seems to me to be a very strange situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic214x.u64	That's right.
