ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u1	I suggest we respect the order. Anyone who would then like to join us may also ask a question. Then the Minister will answer the global question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u2	Mr President, there is certainly an exchange of views on the agenda first. The committee was called together at the request of our group and several other groups. I therefore assumed that the Minister would first give text and explanation, that there would be an exchange of views and that the questions would then be asked as on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u3	We must be realistic. It's best if we get the questions asked first. The Minister can give an overall answer to this question. If you have not tabled a question, you can take the floor, even first. I have no problem with that, because the initiative comes from the sp.a and the PS. So you can start with your question and then we will continue with the agreed order.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u4	For me, the PS can start. I respect the order according to the size of the groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u5	We'll just follow the list. Mr Thiébaut has the floor and then Mr Demon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u6	Mr President, as my colleague, the Socialist Group and the Group of the European People's Party pointed out last week, they asked to hear from the Minister of the Interior following the latest incidents. I am thinking in particular of the bomb warning that shook the occupants of Parliament last week. The situation is all the more worrying because, a few days earlier, the press had reported that plans for "sensitive" buildings had been made available on the Internet. In doing so, Minister, what action have you taken in response to the above incident? What about the problem of making these plans available? Are the latter still available on the Internet? I am thinking in particular of the plans of the prisons, the Palace of the Nation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u7	Mr President, I would like to put things in context. On 19 September, we read in the newspaper that there is a lot of sensitive information on the website of the Regie der Bouwen. These include the file on the security of the entrances and restoration of the Brussels Justice Palace, detailed ground plans of justice houses and detailed ground plans of the prisons of Dendermonde, Eupen, Tournai, Leuven and Ypres. There are also plans for a European institution where children from European civil servants go to school, as well as for secure buildings of the European Council. I do not think that we should be honest about these plans being made public. The link that had to be kept hidden was public. Minister, I was shocked, because in the press both yourself and Minister Vandeput said that you did not see that immediately. You will explain that this information can also be viewed via Google Street View. I've just looked at what's on my own house on Google Street View, because I'm not a great computer expert, but I only saw the façade there. In the link behind the website of the Regie der Bouwken there was more than façade, namely plans. The plans thrown too grabby were quickly removed from the internet, by the intervention of a newspaper or by yourself. I'm sure that's what happened under your command. Five days later, we notice that not only on the website of the Regie der Bouwken, but also on the website of the federal government, there is even more information: ground plans of the Brussels Justice Palace, of the Begijnenstraat prison in Antwerp, of the Justice Palace of Marche-en-Famenne, but also of the military headquarters in Evere and information about the kerosene pipeline and ground plans of the political azerns of Brussels and Ghent. I can go on for a while. We were soon told by the federal police and the OCAD that this is not about such secret matters, but I am still asking questions in times of increased vigilance. Let's think about the planned attack on Verviers' police station. Plans have also been released from an asylum centre. In Germany asylum centres are endorsed. Hopefully it will remain in Germany and it will not blow over to Belgium. I am also thinking of the incident involving NATO's kerosene pipeline in 1984. These are things that we must be aware of. Small details can help people who are not so good with our country and with our security, perhaps help with their plans. So, Minister, I have a few specific questions. What is your response to the fact that the land plans of important buildings are online? Were you aware of this before? What specific measures have you taken? What will you do to prevent such information from being visible to everyone in the future? Is now working with a password when people want to request information? I don't think we can make it through here anytime soon. This is something that concerns us all, and I am happy to hear what action you are taking.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u8	Mr President, to put it calmly, we were all very surprised when, in mid-September, the daily newspaper De Morgen revealed that unsecured documents, plans of sensitive buildings, were published on the site of the Régie des Bâtiments. As some colleagues have already said, a simple Google search allowed access to documents containing information on the security of the entrances to the Brussels courthouse, detailed plans of several justice houses, several prisons across the country, and a plan for the Palace Residence, the new high-security building that will host the European Council in the future. If, once contacted by the newspaper, the Régie quickly removed the documents from the unsecured part of its site, such an error, if confirmed, is of course of concern. Minister, how long have these plans been on the site? Was it possible to trace the origin and the time from which these plans were downloadable on the unsecured part of the site of the Régie des Bâtiments? Have the responsibilities around this error – one can at least call it an error – been identified? What process has it made these sensitive documents available to everyone? In addition, has an assessment been made of the risk associated with the disclosure of this sensitive information? Very concretely, how many downloads of these plans have been made? If so, can we draw – technically, this should be playable – who has potentially downloaded these plans, in order to determine what purpose and context? Has an assessment been made of the current and future cost of this error? Finally, what steps have been taken or will be taken to prevent this kind of error from happening again in the future? Thank you already for your concrete answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u9	In fact, Minister, I am interested in something else, something that has not yet been discussed here. On the basis of press releases, we can convene special committees or early committees, which I do have my questions on, but that is not the essence of my speech. This has not yet been addressed here: since when has the practice been used to publish plans online under public procurement legislation? That's what it's about, isn't it? If I am well informed, this arrangement already dates from previous periods of government. My question, which I in fact have to put to members of the opposition, is why, in the name of God, they come up with it now. In previous reigns, when they themselves were part of the government, there was no cock crow. Because there is now another minister in charge, that is suddenly news. So I ask the opposition why it has come up with this now and not years ago. Perhaps it has been overlooked that this is the normal practice in the context of public procurement and has been tried to shirt the Minister and make him look red with shame. Well, at least that didn't work out. Minister, how long has this practice been in place? Let's think constructively. Perhaps the time has come to adapt the legislation on public procurement in the sense that all subscribers must be provided with the necessary information, without being able to go to the channels they want. Can your cabinet investigate that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u10	Minister, a number of fellow Members have already listed the plans found on the Internet, which are freely available to all. Especially the De Morgen newspaper has written about this in detail. I will not give a full list, but since 19 September a number of reports have been published about the fact that ground plans of prisons, the Justice Palace and the Consilium were available on the Internet. That's how it went on. Also the plans of the military headquarters in Evere and of police forces would like to revisit them, as well as those related to the secured royal palace. On 1 October it appeared that even the plans of the SHAPE building are available on the Internet. Mr Degroote, I do not fully understand your question or I do not understand it correctly. He is not concerned with the question since when the plans are on the Internet, but since when the minister knows about it and what he has done about it. For the sake of clarity, I would like to say a little more about the soap opera we were able to experience in relation to the answers that have been expressed since 19 September by the Minister and the spokesmen of the Buildings Regie and other ministers respectively. I start with 19 September 2015. The spokesperson of the Government of the Buildings stated that it was not intended for the page to be accessible to the public and that the IT staff of the Government of the Buildings would analyse the problem and see how it could be avoided in the future. Minister Niets answers that it is the responsibility of the Government of the Buildings and that he should refer us to the Minister of the Interior for that service. However, he stated that the number of escapes for the prisons had been limited to three in the last three years. Minister, your spokesperson indicated that he could not add anything to the statements made by the Government of the Buildings. We will continue with 20 September 2015. You're going to ask the Government of the Buildings for an investigation. Your spokesperson states that you want an investigation to know how this has been possible and how the problem can be avoided in the future. This is an effective way of dealing with the future. He also indicates that there is little information at present and that your services do not yet know exactly what was in the documents and how sensitive that information was. I will continue one day, namely 21 September 2015. There's a crisis meeting between the Interior and the Buildings Directorate. Minister, like everyone else, your spokesman falls out of the sky. He reports that it is still unclear why the documents in question could be online. Were they remnants of something that was made public after a call for tenders? Did it happen maliciously or not? Your spokesperson also states that you want to know what happened, how such documents could be viewed, what exactly was in the documents and, above all, who was able to look at what. The final sentence of his reaction was that it is clear that it is not about change. We are a few days further, namely 24 September 2015. Another article will be published in De Morgen. The competent ministers Jambon and Vandeput react evasively. According to Jambon, there is no problem and everything is online as part of a ledger. It would be a public tender for works on the buildings, which in that case could be. Still, you want an investigation, it's in the article. You will examine it, but at the moment you see no reason to take the documents offline. We must ask ourselves whether the documents should be so detailed and whether we should not change the procedures, you said. Later on in the evening, apparently, there was another reaction in which you said that the documents would go offline anyway in order not to take any risks. On 25 September 2015, as we have already heard, you will respond by referring to Google Street View, on which you can indeed see a lot of streets and facades of houses. However, there are no showers on the plans of the Antwerp prison. Your spokesman says: "The plans are part of public procurement and must therefore be made public. This is the procedure. The Minister examined the plans and decided, in consultation with federal police experts, that they do not pose a risk to security. That is an important element, ladies and gentlemen. Your spokesman continues: "This is a first analysis and there is still a more thorough study that is being completed quickly. Until then, the plans will be kept offline. If the final analysis shows that there is a risk, we shall intervene. Then I come on September 26th, one day later. That's how I can move on. For the sake of completeness, I will quote everything. Your spokesperson will then report to you, perhaps important to you, that you will give your approval to re-enter all plans of government buildings online, but that you will only consider giving access to those who sign up officially. Your spokesperson says that there is no problem. The information on the website of the Regie der Buildings is not dangerous. Subjectively, we do notice that a number of people are very concerned about this. We are therefore considering adapting the system in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, we are naturally pleased that a committee has been set up on our request, together with the PS. Information security is limited not only to buildings but also to all the data already available and discussed. We must take this very seriously. It is indeed a good thing that measures have been taken in the meantime in a number of services and that certain things have been taken offline. The publications in the press have been useful in this sense. Policemen, guards and other security personnel working in these buildings have already provided additional security. However, we cannot stress enough that this is primarily about the security of both the security people and of all our citizens, in short, of all those who have been put at risk by the increased state of preparedness for the threat of terrorism. At the same time, of course, it is also about the safety of our entire population. That is why a debate on information security was an explicit question from our group. If it turns out that the Buildings Direction deals with sensitive information with a great deal of nonchalance and laxity, the question is automatically how the other public services in the field of information security are organised. Social security, tax-on-web and so on are becoming increasingly digital. Have all these public services also developed adequate policies to cope safely with this? I can only conclude that the various reactions of you, the Minister of Security, excel in nonchalance and are actually misplaced. Our group therefore has many questions, first of all about your response in your capacity as Minister of Security. Our most important question is what you have based yourself on to say that there is no problem? Your first reaction was that it was not clear whether or not sensitive information was available and that further analysis was needed. Everything revolves around that one website. Why, for example, did you not decide to temporarily pull the plug on that one website until a thorough analysis had taken place? Why did it take more than a week for a number of documents to be taken offline? After a week, this reaction followed: "The Minister has studied the plans and decided, in consultation with federal police experts, that they do not pose a risk to security. Based on what analysis did you come to that conclusion? Did the OCAD perform an analysis? Have other services carried out an analysis? I'd like to hear it. The question remains on which you based your initial response to say that there was no problem. What have your security services, and those who have advised you, based themselves on saying that there is no problem? We can discuss for a long time whether there is a difference with the photos and images of Google Street View and whether or not it is dangerous that the plans of showers in prisons are available on the internet, but there are enough guidelines, and even laws, that determine what should or should not be published. Firstly, there are internationally applied ISO standards, such as ISO 27001 and 27002, which define a list of security challenges and indicate the appropriate organisation to address those challenges. Secondly, I refer to the publication, or the link, which is on the net and available to everyone, about the SHAPE building of NATO and the law of 11 December 1998 on classification and security clearances, security attestations and security articles. The military headquarters in Evere and the NATO building SHAPE are indeed included. They are classified as to be secured and should not be published. It is very important to note that publication is punishable by criminal law. In other words, it is a criminal offence. Thirdly, the law of 8 December 1992 on the protection of privacy in relation to the processing of personal data. Fourthly, guidance from the privacy committee on the information security of personal data. It says, for example, "You should read them yourself "that an organisation must implement all appropriate measures to prevent personal data from leaving the organisation uncontrolled and falling into unauthorized hands. For example, page 22 states that network operators should take appropriate security measures if access to personal data is granted online. Knowing the list of all these laws and rules, the question on which you base yourself remains important to me to say that there is no problem. I would therefore urge those counsellors to explain, among other things, to the OCAD and the CCB, as well as to the federal police, who you yourself mentioned in a quote here why all these data are not dangerous or are not a problem according to their insights. You said that the plans are part of public procurement and should therefore be made public. Agreement that public procurement should be made public, but with the improvement that contracts should be made public but not documents. The fact that interested parties can consult the information during the registration period is, of course, necessary. For this to happen, procedures must be established so that those interested in obtaining these documents can be made known. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is no problem, I would like to point out that until today there are documents available on the Internet which state 'I have one here as an example, 'Confidential' or 'Confidential'. It is therefore expressly stated that they should not be disseminated. However, if you simply type the term Fedict or SHAPE on Google or any other search engine, you can consult them completely while at the top of these documents is "confidential'. Understand who can if you say there's no problem. However, such buffer may already be introduced. This can be applied in both the restricted procurement procedure and in the full procurement procedure. If you would continue to focus on the general legal obligation to publish the data for subscription to a tender, the government may still deviate from the general rules for security reasons. Let me give you a concrete example. Until the year 2000, not so long ago, the names of all staff recruited by the Security of the State were published in the Belgian Official Journal, due to a general legal obligation to publish the names of all officials recruited. For the security of the State, that has obviously changed for security reasons and was no longer done because it became dangerous for those people themselves. Conclusion: you should not hide behind a general rule or the fact that this was the case in the past. For security reasons, which are effectively present, you can cover yourself to not publish all those data. My next question concerns information security in general. We can only observe that no prior screening of all published documents has been carried out and that this has only started at the time when they were published in the press. A concrete example is the plans of prisons. I can tell you that until today the plans of Ypres prison, for example, are still online. If that's what you want, I can show you. However, there should be a clear distinction between documents that, firstly, may be public, secondly, documents that are best behind a login or identification of the questioner and, thirdly, documents such as those here that should remain strictly confidential. Such screening should be carried out in advance and should be part of a general policy of information security. I have a few more questions and refer them to your colleague in the Flemish Government and fellow party member, Minister Homans. It announced in March that it would take additional action in the field of information security. I shouldn't give you the press release. You'll own it yourself. I wonder what your information security policy is. What specific policy actions have you developed and will you continue to develop? Secondly, do all public administrations have an information plan and an information security plan that not only exists on paper, but is also being implemented effectively? How are these plans implemented and who controls them? The various documents that have served as an example indicate that security is as leaky as a sieve. Finally, what policy do you yourself pursue with regard to the classification of police documents?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u11	Thank you, Mr. Top. Mrs Lahaye-Battheu has also arrived. Madam, you have the floor as the last questioner.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u12	Mr President, Minister, I will not repeat myself. My specific questions will be limited to two questions in response to the recent findings and events. Then I would like to end with a general consideration. My first question is this. Would you like and can you confirm the reporting that the Regie is aware of the problems that arise with the security of its IT system? What exactly are these problems? Secondly, according to what we have read in the newspaper, an internal and external audit is announced. Are they gonna be there? What exactly will be the task of these audits? Those are my two specific questions. I now come to my general comments. The Court of Auditors has already said a lot of sensible things about the operation of the Government of the Buildings. At the end of 2014, the Court of Auditors reviewed the Regie and the report was sent to Parliament. This was done at the beginning of this term of office and also at the beginning of your term of office. That report sets out findings on what was foreseen by the legislator in 2006, namely a new Management Committee and also the broad lines for the operation of the Regie. Now, eight years later, it appears that there has not been much of these cases. The implementation of the new organisation has still not been completed by the end of 2014. The management plan was not updated annually. Internal control is insufficient. Knowledge of the management of the real estate and its occupation is insufficient. Customers are not financially responsive to the cost of housing and the Regie not for its performance. Planning is limited to budgetary commitments, while a large part of the investment is not committed in the budget. Local management does not have a single file for the investment as a whole. Causes of delays are not recorded and customers are not informed about progress. For example, the findings continue in the Court of Auditors' report of late 2014. The report also contains many conclusions and recommendations on how to do things differently and better and where to change. In conclusion, I would like to ask you what has been done in the last year to meet this. Is it not appropriate to organise an exchange of views with the Court of Auditors on the functioning of the Regie?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u13	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, as far as your last question is concerned, the audit report is not today's topic. I am prepared to make this a specific topic for a meeting either with the Court of Auditors or with the Executive Board of the Buildings Directorate, but let us stick to the subject today. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there is an amalgamation of a number of things here. Thank you, Mr Top, for putting together a number of very important statements by incredibly important people in chronological order. A newspaper brings something out and says that the facts described can create an unsafe situation. I think it would be wiser for a newspaper to contact the Minister responsible first when it comes to dealing with unsafe matters and to see if that can be resolved before the newspaper reveals that there is a huge security problem in our country. I think it is a form of citizenism that, if there was a security problem somewhere, it would be a matter of trying to solve it before we devote three pages to it in a newspaper. In doing so, I call for civil service. A number of cases were published in De Morgen on 19 September. At that time, the services of the Government of the Buildings immediately looked at what was in it and there were indeed two plans that could be asked whether they should have been online. I'll answer that question. I think it would have been better if they hadn't been online. The following Tuesday, De Morgen published that, among other things, the ground plans of the prison of Antwerp could be found online. I've got those ground plans from the Antwerp prison. It's about two shower blocks on two floors. I have specifically said that I do not see any signs that these plans are online. That doesn't increase the safety risk. I also speak with two hats. I wear one hat as the Minister responsible for the Government of the Buildings, because a number of things fall within the competence of the Government of the Buildings. However, other matters are not covered: SHAPE, NATO and everything related to defence do not fall within the competence of the Government of the Buildings. My second hat is that of the Minister responsible for security. It's good to make that distinction. As far as the Buildings Directorate is concerned, I am responsible for the procedures and for adjusting the procedures. On the other hand, security monitoring is with me, while other services are responsible for the measures to be taken in this area. What are we talking about here? It's about plans that appear online as part of an e-procurement system. Mr Demon, you mentioned a hidden link that would have stayed, but that is not it at all. We are talking here about the federal state's e-procurement system, which is covered by P&D. The Government of the Buildings also works through that e-procurement system and on its website there is a link to that e-procurement system as regards the elements of the Regie. This system has been in place since 2012. How detailed should publications be for the wall? That is a question which I shall come back to in a moment, because there is a point. After the first publication in De Morgen we took three measures. We immediately took the link of the Government of the Buildings offline. I asked for an internal and external audit and an analysis of the security services, namely the OCAD, the federal police and the crisis center. I have that report with me, too. The internal audit has led to an adjustment of the procedure in the Buildings Regie. The external audit has been commissioned and the report will be received on 15 October. I will also make that report available. It is also no problem to make available to you the report of 2.5 pages of the OCAD, the federal police and the crisis centre. What are the conclusions of the OCAD? I will quote them, even if I make them available to you. "We currently believe that this information is not likely to increase the overall level of threat, which remains at Level 2 with increased vigilance." In other words, the OCAD concludes that insecurity has not increased due to the availability of the plans. The OCAD does make a reservation. "In view of the presence of sites such as prisons, courthouses and federal police infrastructure on the key, we believe that the concentration of information in all its forms (texts, images, detailed plans) at a single place of access (the e-Procurement website) may constitute a more targeted risk. By the way, the USB stick is used to transmit the link to them. There's been work on a flash drive. So there are two points. Firstly, there is no reason to raise the threat level. Secondly, there is a need for caution here. I'm translating that policy. There is always an objective and subjective aspect to safety. Objectively, I don't think there was that much going on. Subjectively, this has been so smeared in the newspapers, however, there has been a feeling of insecurity, which has caused a number of people to move. That is why we have decided to take this subjective sense of security into account and to adapt the procedures. I have made a new procedure, together with the Government of the Buildings, which will apply from 1 October, i.e. from yesterday. I will deliver that new directive to the committee. The following applies to the e-procurement site from now on. Let me give you an example. There is a tender for the renovation of shower rooms in the Antwerp prison. Contractors who want to register for this will receive a login and can go behind the wall to get the detailed plans. That came into force yesterday. That is the measure I took as Minister responsible for the Buildings Control. As Minister of Security, I contacted the Minister of P&O, who manages the e-procurement site. We will contact all customers of the e-pocurement site. Those are federal institutions and local authorities. We will inform them of these guidelines. Firstly, to be careful, secondly, we will audit ourselves whether there are any items on the site that can cause insecurity and, thirdly, that we can also check who consulted the site. We can do that regularly. We will see if there are any people there who have bad intentions. Grosso mode we have adapted the procedures. It is a pity that an emerging security risk comes out through the press. If I had been approached four or five times or once or twice and I had not responded or done nothing, I would understand that the press would point to a problem. However, we could have solved this problem before there was a greater sense of insecurity. I also went to look at the neighbouring countries and what they are doing in that area. The Netherlands and Luxembourg have very strict procedures, while in France everything is open, with much more detailed plans for prisons. In France, really detailed prison plans can be found for those who want to see them. I will not fail to point out to my colleague Mr Cazeneuve that risk. However, I will not do so through the press, but through a personal conversation with Mr Cazeneuve. I do not, of course, rule out the possibility that, for example, the SHAPE or NATO... SHAPE, for example, is not managed by the Government of the Buildings. It is Mr Di Rupo who made an exception for SHAPE at the time. SHAPE would not be managed by NATO, but would establish its own body for the new buildings. I cannot, of course, rule out the possibility that there are things that we would rather not see emerging. For this, however, there is, of course, the Computer Crime Unit in the federal police force, which, both at federal and decentralised level, is also keeping a closer eye on such matters. Mr President, I have answered all the specific questions. The documents I would like to make available to the committee are, on the one hand, the new guidelines of the Buildings Committee on this issue and, on the other hand, the impact report of the three security services. These documents are at the disposal of the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. I'm giving you a chance to replicate now. I would ask for a three-minute speaking time per person. We shall interpret the Rules of Procedure a little more broadly. There is usually only two minutes' speaking time. However, I do not want to repeat the debate from the outset. Mr Thiébaut, you have the floor for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u15	Mr President, I thank the Minister for all these clarifications. I would also like to say to him that he should not be surprised by the Members' approach. We are aware of a problem reported by the press and we play our role as parliamentarians. The point here is not to nail the minister to the pillori. I think our approach is healthy. For us, there is no need to talk about controversy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u16	I wasn't talking about parliamentarians. I think the reporters could have contacted me before they published. Once it has been published in the press, it is done, and it is then normal for parliamentarians to carry out their monitoring function.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u17	Not all the press, but some press.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u18	You know that the independence of the press is very important to us. I would also like to address my colleague from the N-VA. Quite regularly, in this Parliament, N-VA colleagues talk about the responsibilities and management of the previous government. But the previous government was not a PS-sp.a. government. For example, I would point out to you that the Régie des Bâtiments, which you refer to, was managed by Messrs. Reynders and Verherstraeten, who are not currently in opposition. Sometimes I feel like you forget that your partners have been our partners. Sometimes you have to call him back. A reassuring element in the minister's response is the opinion of the OCAM, which is a very professional body – it is not the press. We are reassured as the OCAM specifies that we have nothing to fear from the information that was available online. It's a very reassuring piece of information. In the context of public procurement, you explained the introduction of a procedure to make the provision of elements necessary for the submission of a quote more secure for companies. Did I understand correctly, because the translation was cut during your presentation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u19	I gave the example of the renovation of the showers at a prison in Antwerp. The number of showers is specified but the drawings are given after the authentication procedure. I'll have the procedure distributed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u20	That's the key to your explanations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u21	Minister, we have to be careful when it comes to security, whether it is the previous or this period of government. It was clear to me that from your reply and from the advice given, among other things from the OCAD, it appeared that there may have been a relatively small insecurity. We know, for example, that documents from the plans of the Steenokkerzeel asylum centre have been publicly available. We must not frighten people, but we must be aware of what happened at the asylum centres in Germany. Let us now think about that. After all, there are crazy people out there and who knows what might happen, so please bear that in mind. When it comes to police stations and taking into account the fact that we are in another world in terms of security, we must remember the attack on the Verviers police station that could be thwarted. If you then find that plans from police stations in Ghent and elsewhere have been partially made public, I remember that you have argued for caution. Let your services investigate this further and let us not pass the blackbird on to each other or to previous governments. Let us take action to secure all these plans as much as possible and to increase the sense of security. I believe that you have taken the necessary steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. I have a few brief final reviews. I note that it is about a matter that we should not in fact increase. I also note that measures have been adopted by you from 1 October. It must be said that the ball was played very briefly, could not be faster, and that is to your credit. I have also learned from the statements made by my fellow Members that a lot of things are being thrown into a mess. Everything needs to be looked at in the right context. However, I would like to ask the initiators to convene this meeting to also look at their fellow party members in certain cities and to check whether there are no plans for certain buildings online, which could lead to dangerous situations. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps you could light something up here and there. Whosoever is without sin, cast the first stone. The next thing I want to know is what's left of me. Apparently, this is a scheme that already exists in 2012. In the interests of security, this should have been mentioned in the previous period of government, by any of the former governments. The claim that a party is not involved now does not go far enough, because whoever was in the former government should have brought that up as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, I respect the order of the questioners. I call Mr Top and then Mrs Lahaye-Battheu.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed explanation, but I would like to ask you a simple question and you may interrupt my reply in order to give a very clear answer. Did you say that the De Morgen newspaper didn't contact you in advance for the publication of the first article?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u25	I said De Morgen warned us the night before there was going to be an article next day. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u26	That's a different answer than before.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u27	No, it's the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u28	Yes, you do. No one in this room has probably understood it that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u29	It's the same answer. The night before, we were contacted that an article was going to appear next day, so I cannot act and make sure that this article does not have to appear. That's what this is about for me. If there is reason to say that there is an unsafe situation, then it is decent for every citizen, whether one is a journalist or something else, to contact us first. My door is always open and many of you have already experienced it. If there's anything to discuss, come down and we'll talk about it and figure out what measures we can take. However, the night before telephone, if so to speak the presses are already running... I understand something else under contact in advance to try to avoid an unsafe situation. Anyway, we live happily in a country where freedom of the press exists. Everyone has to take responsibility for this, but as Minister responsible for Security, I can offer to the press to get rid of something like that and to look at the situation first. In retrospect, I would like to say what the situation was, that there was talk with the Minister and that it was resolved. It's okay to write that. That's a civil question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for the answer, but the rest of my reply may be helpful. I pointed out to you earlier that you reacted rather casually during the whole procedure from 19 September to today. You referred in your reply to plans. I can tell you that there are quite a few other things available on websites, not just those of the Buildings Regie. On government websites, not only plans for buildings are freely and publicly available, but also information on computer networks. For example, the type of software used for firewalls and the brand of routers and servers can be found. One has to ask whether this is not sensitive information. Those things are still online today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u31	You find the brand of a router sensitive information?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u32	You should ask computer specialists if that is interesting information for people who have bad intentions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u33	I'll ask. It says somewhere: an IBM router. I don't think that's very...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u34	There's a lot more available. You'd better check the documents. In your answer you always minimized the facts. I address you as Minister of Security. It is true that you are also responsible for the Government of the Buildings, but today we are talking about security. You referred to an audit and reports. You said earlier that you have it at your disposal. I would therefore ask you to have it copied here and distributed to the members of the committee. You refer to two cases in the report or audit of the OCAD. First and foremost, the facts would not be of a nature to raise the level of threat. That question or that signal didn't come from anyone either. It is not because these things are available that they might increase the level of threat. That's not the point. The report does say, however, that you have quoted the fact that there may be risks. You said this was a subjective feeling. Well, then explain to me why you consider this to be a subjective feeling when the OCAD indicates that there may be risks associated with it. That is a second question. Thirdly, I am referring to the fact that a number of documents are still public. Let me give you an example. Today, the plan of the Forum or the ICT building is still available. One can still get them, without login, without having to sign in. I have the impression that the facts are still being minimized today. That may be justified if there is no insecurity. However, I am going to respond with a proverb, that is to put the cat with the milk. One does not leave one's front door open at night either because it is safe in the city or municipality, one simply closes it for security reasons. Minister, at least I expected you to take these matters seriously. However, until today, I believe that you will continue to minimize matters and I fear that you will get this back in your face as a boomerang. I am going to close, I fear that you are creating a dioxin crisis in information security here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u35	I'll close in a completely different way. Thank you, Minister, for your specific answers to the questions relating to the protection of information relating to public buildings. I am particularly pleased that you take our proposal to discuss the substance of the matter with the Court of Auditors. Important reports have been made on this. I think the Government of the Buildings is close to our hearts. All elected members want our buildings to be well managed and the recommendations followed. At the beginning of the political year, it is appropriate to plan such an exchange of views. Our party will ask to put this on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u36	All the questions have been asked and the replies given.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u37	Mr President, are the reports available?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u38	They're being copied right now. You can have them immediately, if you wait another minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-02-54-commissie-ic234x.u39	One can put them on the site. Everyone can read them.
