ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u2	We must proceed with the admission and swearing-in of the successor who is eligible to replace Mr Melchior Wathelet, who resigned on 20 April 2015. We must proceed to the admission and swearing-in of the alternate to sit in lieu of Mr.Melchior Wathelet, who resigned on April 20, 2015. The successor who will replace him is Michel de Lamotte, the first successor to the Liège constituency. The alternate to replace him is Mr Michel de Lamotte, the first alternate in the electoral district of Liège. The credentials of Mr Michel de Lamotte were declared valid at our meeting on 19 June 2014. The powers of Michel de Lamotte were validated in our meeting on June 19, 2014. Since the additional examination provided for in Article 235 of the Code of Choice refers exclusively to the maintenance of the eligibility requirements, in the light of the documents obtained, it is a mere formality in the present circumstances. Since the supplementary verification, provided for in article 235 of the Electoral Code, relates only to the preservation of the conditions of eligibility, it appears that this verification, in the light of the documents obtained, has only a character of purely formality. I therefore propose that this Member be admitted. I therefore propose that you proceed to the admission of this member. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I recall the terms of the oath: "I swear to observe the Constitution" "Ik zweer de Grondwet na te leven" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen '. I would ask Mr Michel de Lamotte to take the constitutional oath. I ask Mr Michel de Lamotte to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u3	Mr Michel de Lamotte will be part of the French language group. Michel de Lamotte will be a member of the French linguistic group.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every boatman is too many, and of course every dead boatman is too many. The question that concerns us today is how we can avoid it. The answer is actually quite simple. Some say that we must open Europe's borders wide to all this suffering in order to avoid this kind of dramatic scenes. I disagree. My message may not be politically correct, but I do not think we should reward illegal immigration. On the contrary, if we want to avoid boat refugees and all these deaths, we must ensure that we close our borders, that we discourage those who want to come here from coming here and that we severely punish those who organise it. And yet I note that the government is sending a different signal. The government dances on two legs, she does not know well and spreads a diffuse message in Europe and far beyond. What am I reading? 250 additional places of refuge, humanitarian visas, twice as many re-locations, and so on. Instead of spreading the message that these people should stay out of here, they are actually saying that they should come, that there is an opportunity to settle here and that their efforts to cross the Mediterranean would make sense. Illegal immigration must not be rewarded, under any pretext. Gentlemen ministers, I would like to refer to the Australian example. Australia is the guide country for this problem. Operation Southern Borders ensures that no illegal refugee or immigrant enters Australia, although there too the left does what Green and sp.a do here, especially benefit from the dead boat refugees, in the sense that they abuse them in order to ultimately facilitate asylum and immigration policies in this country. That's the lowest of the lowest, using these people's deaths for their own political gain.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of this government, the death of over 1 500 boat refugees has touched us deeply. Fifteen hundred people looking for security. Always someone's father, always someone's mother, always someone's child, would say Willem Vermandere. He formulated this in response to the many deaths in the First and Second World War. I am therefore outraged by the fact that Secretary of State Francken says that it is better not to save those people because it creates a suction effect. How many people must drown before we pass that reasoning? It is said that there is no solution to this, that no solution can be found. Italy did not have a perfect answer with the action Mare Nostrum, but a fairly pragmatic answer, in the sense that people were saved in danger, but that the smugglers were warned of controls and of the danger of being arrested and sentenced. Italy and Greece are the countries at the external borders of Europe most affected by migration policy. For these countries, we are particularly strict when we monitor their budgetary situation, because we believe that they should consistently follow European directives in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u6	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u7	I have been very brief, Mr President. Italy and Greece are countries that are asking for a policy of solidarity among Member States on migration. At that time, we tend to stick our heads in the sand and do ostrich politics. Now I come to my question. I have read that the government wants to cooperate on ten points and be so kind as to create 250 additional shelters for refugees. You heard right, 250 seats. Our country has 589 cities and municipalities, so that is on average half a refugee per city or city. That's why I'm asking if it can't be more. What specific plans are you going to the European Summit with? To what extent do we want to be the driving force behind the creation of a European migration policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u8	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a tragedy that has cost the lives of eight hundred human beings has come to prolong the endless list of victims of a disastrous European policy on asylum and migration. For, let us not fool ourselves, this shipwreck is the most costly in human lives since the end of the war, but it is probably not the last – the news forces us 0 to see it. It must be stressed that these people are primarily victims of policies of which we are all Europeans, including us Belgians, who are responsible. They are not adventurers who would leave the cozy comfort of their home on a head-on. It is no joy of heart that these people leave a country in war or ruin, in the hope of the mere possibility of a future in other countries. It is not out of the desire for exoticism that these people, who represent the best of their country of origin, pay insane sums to smugglers exploiting human misery to risk their lives on journeys where death is present at every moment, even well before embarking. Yes, we all bear our share of responsibility. When I think that some think that the budgets dedicated to development cooperation are lost money! We are responsible, when at times, with better intentions, for launching a military operation, without a plan for the future in the event of a failure of the transition to a democratic State; when international tours are undertaken to deter departures, without reaching out to build on the spot what is necessary to extinguish the envy or absolute necessity of departure; when, above all, legal migration procedures are hardened to the point of making them illusory or marginal, and when immigration candidates are pushed towards channels of trafficking in human beings; when, finally, we refuse to finance operations that include rescue at sea – I am talking about Operation Triton – to the benefit of Frontex operations which, of course, cost three times less but are limited to border surveillance without humanitarian dimension, without even guaranteeing the exclusive use of public forces and without democratic control. The Prime Minister's spokesman announced that he called for an exceptional Council to be held today, a request that would join those of other Member States. We welcome it, but we would have liked to hear this request earlier to respond to the call made by France, Germany, Italy and Slovenia several weeks ago. Mr Minister, what will be Belgium's position at this Council? Do you intend to review your government's development cooperation policy in order to effectively combat the objective reasons behind the departure of migrant candidates? How will you respond to the many calls for help from Italy and Greece, in particular, which are on the front line in managing the flow of migrants? Will you increase the number of places to welcome and resettle candidates in Europe? What initiatives are you going to take to relax European rules on legal immigration and strengthening democratic control over Frontex operations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, the dramatic events that are taking place every day in the Mediterranean area leave no one untouched. Unfortunately, that is not a new phenomenon. What is new is the way people smugglers operate, namely in an increasingly three-star way. They kill people every day with crummy boats. In the last week alone, 1 000 people have been killed. If we want to do something about this, we must first of all tackle the causes. Why do people commit such a killing and choose to take all the risks instead of staying safe in their home countries? That's exactly the problem. Very often it's about people living in conflict zones. We will therefore have to focus first and foremost, in the international context, on conflict management and post-conflict management to ensure that those people can stay in their country. We also need to focus on development cooperation, because it is often also economic reasons that drive these people out of poverty to Europe. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us above all ensure that we do not continue to save on the resources for development cooperation. If people want to take the crossing because they have to flee to Europe, we will first and foremost have to commit ourselves to refugee camps in the safe regions of the countries themselves. Too little is happening today in certain areas. I believe that we, as a country, can also play our part in supporting the refugee camps on the ground. Despite everything, there will still be people who take the boats and take the crossing. That's what's happening today. That is why we must also make every effort to ensure that rescue operations are carried out. The argument that we are doing more to encourage traffickers in this way should not be an excuse. We can't look away and drown people. I hope, Minister, that you will urge Europe to continue its efforts. Mr Foreign Minister, what policy does the government intend to propose in this respect? What measures will be taken to tackle those who make money from this, the smugglers of human beings? However, our country can also take initiatives itself, in addition to the European context. I welcome the government's decision to resettle 250 extra people. Some will find that little, but at least it means a doubling of the current figure. Today, we're relocating 300 people. So there'll be 250 more. Our group does believe that we can do more in the area of resettlement. If Europe is asking for more work to be done on resettlement, we must be open to it. In addition, Europe offers the opportunity to issue humanitarian visas. The framework for this has been created by Europe. Each Member State may fill that out freely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u10	Mrs. Lanjri, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u11	Germany already gave humanitarian visas to 5 000 people last year and Belgium to only 24 people. My question is also to apply it. Mr Secretary of State, what possibilities do you see in that regard? Allow me to give a concrete example.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u12	Mrs Lanjri, you are exceeding your speaking time very much. I suggest you say another sentence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u13	An example to make it concrete is the following. A Syrian woman is staying in our country with a residence permit based on medical regularisation. She cannot let her husband happen because she has insufficient means of subsistence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u14	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last week 1 100 migrants died in the Mediterranean trying to cross the walls of the fortress Europe, who died for wanting to seek happiness elsewhere than on their continent. It's painful. I have worked for two years in the context of development cooperation in Kinshasa. I met hundreds of people fleeing the war in the east of their country. I can tell you that the political model that hopes to force people to stay in poverty, to continue living in war-ridden areas, with bullets, by building walls, will not work. Indeed, on the day when I am convinced that beyond a border, my family will be able to live happier, we will be able to put customs officers, police officers and soldiers, nothing will prevent me from going on the other side in search of this happiness! However, as The Guardian revealed this morning, the draft which forms the basis of the discussions that take place this afternoon in the European Council of Ministers attended by the Prime Minister is terrible. In fact, it only provides for an additional 5,000 places in Europe. Worse still, on this basis, European prime ministers are called upon to discuss the plan for the forced repatriation of 150 000 migrants who have arrived in Italy. This is the basic document on which our Prime Minister will discuss! In addition, the question of how to solve the problem of the Mediterranean crossing, by considering the destruction of smugglers' boats, should also be addressed. This is, of course, totally unacceptable to us. When I hear a secretary of state talking about a suction effect, Mr Francken, my hair is shaking, because I can't stand it. The opposite has happened. By aborting the operation Mare Nostrum and the various measures to launch rescue operations, there have been no fewer people, but more people have died. That's the truth. Mr President, I come to my question. Minister, what measures will the Belgian Government take to help create a much-needed, safe escape route? For example, refugee work in Flanders proposes the introduction of a system of humanitarian visas. What measures will the government take to provide a real alternative to those refugees who are now obliged to appeal to smugglers of human beings?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u15	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today is not a question I am asking you. I'm making an alarm call. You don't have to pay for words anymore. We've been paying for words for too long. What is happening at Europe's borders is a shame for all of us, for Europe, for Belgium. We're pretending we're up to what's going on there. But what have we actually done? In the humanitarian field, I regret to say so, but since the establishment of this government and even the end of the previous government, no euro has actually been paid out to these people. Not a euro has been disbursed! I know that commitments are made, but not a euro – I've been looking into it again today – has not arrived there. At the level of development cooperation, what have we done? Not a country that was trying to get away with it was helped. Tunisia is still not a partner country for cooperation. In Mali and Niger, we are providing modest aid, but elsewhere we are doing nothing about cooperation. As far as diplomacy is concerned, I am not saying that you have remained in your arms, Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs, but it cannot be said that there has been a decisive, creative diplomatic initiative that has been able to reverse the situation. On the contrary, we have closed our embassies in Syria, Libya, Afghanistan. All possibilities for diplomatic ties with these countries have been closed. At the level of relief at sea, we did not help Italy either. I want to greet Italy because it was in the first lodges and it took on its responsibilities. On the contrary, we turned Operation Mare Nostrum into Operation Triton. In the area of stabilisation and defence, yes, we are active and I want to welcome what we have done there, but we also know that the future budgets for our defence will ensure that these efforts in Iraq and Tunisia will be halted. Minister, I ask you today to live up to our values, our history and what is happening in the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today there is an Italian skipper from Lampedusa with a statement in the newspaper. He says: "How many drowned refugees I've already taken out of the water, I can't count them anymore. I wake up at night and I see their face. Ladies and gentlemen, the human tragedy is no longer easy to grasp. We all know that Belgium alone cannot solve the problem. We all know that we must not open our borders. However, the effort we make must be generous, great, human and social. It is not for an Italian fisherman to save lives at sea but for the international community and the rich countries. Until further notice, Belgium is still a rich country. Members of the government, I would therefore ask you to stop using excuses, even if Europe hesitates. After all, Europe is hesitant because we would attract people to our areas if we were to save too many lives at sea. Is it not particularly cynical to use such a reasoning? Moreover, there is no such thing as a suction effect. After all, since the rescue patrols at sea have been reduced, no fewer people are trying to cross. Those are the numbers. That is the reality. Unfortunately, death does not deter when despair prevails. Members of the government, I would like to challenge you with concrete measures. This is what the debate must be about today. It is good that the Belgian Government has decided to send a ship to the Mediterranean. My specific question is as follows. Will that ship also sail into the deep Mediterranean to save people and drownings there, or will we confine ourselves to guarding the Italian coastline? What are we going to do there? Will we protect Europe's fortress there or will we effectively save people at sea? I have the following question about the number of refugees. Shall we do more than accept that ocharm 300 refugees of war that we are relocating in our country today? Will we follow the example of a country such as Germany, which is a model country for some groups and which organises temporary shelter for 10 000 people? Members of the government, I am sure your indignation is genuine. However, if indignation is not translated into policy, this indignation is rather quickly hollowed out, and then it becomes hypocritical. I would therefore ask you today to convince Parliament, the people and the country of your good intentions and of your strength and to present here today an urgent plan so that our country can take responsibility, together with other European countries. Let us set an example here. I am convinced that other Member States will then follow us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is how we feel when we see these thousands of dead people. Last year, 3,500. Over 1 000 this year. One in 50 doesn't make it to the mainland. We also feel small when we see how much EUR million Europe has already committed to rescue operations and border surveillance. Since October 2013, 10 million euros per month have been deployed to stop this flow of people, to stop the smugglers. Nothing seems to help stop those criminal human smugglers. From all over Africa, people, real refugees and economic refugees travel to Libya for that deadly crossing. We can set an example with Belgium. We can do that, and we will do that by tightening up, increasing our resettlement programme. Fortunately, we also have a voice in Europe. Let's be honest. In Europe, all countries want to show solidarity to combat these smugglers, but we all have to be on the same lines in respect of reception obligations, Dublin obligations. Mr Minister, I very much hope that you will be able to make an effort to get all these countries, including Greece and Italy, in line with these commitments. This is the only way Europe can and will remain united. What else can we do now? What more can Europe do to stop these smugglers? We are looking at Belgium, we are looking at Europe, but we need to see the problem internationally. There's a perverse link between ISIS and those human smugglers. People flee the IS regime and pay for it with their lives and with every euro they have, allowing those smugglers to maintain the IS regime even more. How can we prevent this, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u18	Minister, we are all shocked by the plight of these migrants who perished at sea and the abominable role played by smugglers. Belgium takes its share of responsibility to help migrants in need of international assistance and does not have to blush in its asylum policy. In 2014, almost half of asylum applications or subsidiary protections resulted in a positive decision by CGRA. In 2014, 97% of Syrians who applied for asylum in our country were granted political or subsidiary refugee status, indicating that the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons is doing its job and is aware of the situation. For example, for the past four years, Belgium had granted refugee status to 4,317 asylum-seekers from that country and was also voluntarily participating in UNHCR's resettlement project, where nearly 300 refugees, mainly Syrians, would be welcomed. Mr Minister, can you tell us what guidelines Belgium defended at the Foreign and Home Affairs Ministers' Summit in Luxembourg on 20 April and what points you will be defending at today's European Council? What is your government's position on the ten measures proposed by the European Commission? What European approach are you advocating, particularly to fight smugglers more effectively, to stabilize the southern shore of the Mediterranean, especially Libya, to strengthen Frontex's controls and to develop the capacity of the UNHCR resettlement programme? Like the Mare Nostrum mission led by Italy and European operations Triton and Poseidon, is Belgium ready to study participation in this type of surveillance and rescue mission? If so, in what form and with what means?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the expressions of the last few hours of both our European leaders and our national leaders are of unnamed hypocrisy, and I must say that the statements made by some here are no less so. On the one hand, there is your crocodile tears, which do nothing but make this Mediterranean overflow, while on the other hand, there is no word for the European ideal, the European project, that of solidarity and that of freedom. Mr Minister, many questions have been asked by my colleagues, notably by Mr Wouter De Vriendt. I will listen carefully to your answers. I will not add a question, because with your agreement, Mr President, I would like to dedicate my time to a minute of silence, to a tribute to these thousands of men and women who have died of dreaming of a better future on this side of the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you. I think that we can now rightly resume this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u22	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this weekend and last few days there has been a tragedy in and around the Mediterranean. Hundreds of people, people like you and me, looking for a better life, or maybe we should say we're looking for a life. Desperate people looking for a future for themselves and their children, who die in the most horrible circumstances. Today, smugglers make millions of dollars out of this situation. This is a gold mine for criminals. That must be stopped urgently. The fight against trafficking and exploitation is therefore crucial and an urgent priority for policy. In addition, we are convinced that these refugees, these people in need, must be helped, rescued and received as soon as possible in humane conditions. The European Union, as well as our government, has therefore proposed, in the short term, a number of very concrete actions to address the most pressing need. In addition, and it has already been said here, Europe, like Belgium, urgently needs a coherent policy, with asylum and migration going hand in hand. We're pretty good at making it a positive story. Migration, if properly addressed, can offer many opportunities. We have long argued in favour of allowing more economic migration. Mrs Lanjri, on asylum, we also call for humanitarian visas and their application. Of course, at this difficult time, we must offer solutions in the very short term and act quickly. Everyone is aware that in the long term the emphasis should be on a thorough approach to the underlying causes of this crisis, or better, we must continue to try to eliminate the causes of this migration and to support local reception. Our vice-premier, Alexander De Croo, has always called from his department for extra attention to these development efforts in countries of origin and in these very sensitive areas. We are obliged to ensure that people in need can legally move to safer places and receive the necessary care. We are therefore pleased that additional efforts are being made in the context of resolution. We understand that Belgium represents even more places than what the European Union is proposing at the moment. Mr Minister, I have the following question. Can you explain the short-term measures? Are there any practical and legal obstacles to implementing them? What measures do you intend to take in the long term to combat this crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the scale of the maritime disaster off the Libyan coast last weekend has, after so many other tragedies such as that of Lampedusa in October 2013, recalled the urgency of the situation in the Mediterranean. The European Union responded immediately. On Monday, a "Jumbo" Council of Foreign Ministers and Ministers of the Interior met in Luxembourg and of course we wished to pay tribute to the victims of this disaster. All the ministers - my colleague from the Interior, Jan Jambon, like myself - supported the three priorities defined by Mrs Mogherini, the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Policy. There is a need to combat trafficking in human beings more effectively. We must assume our responsibilities in terms of international protection. There is a need to strengthen border surveillance and rescue capabilities. Mr President, I will not go back to what we are doing in the medium and long term to stabilize the situation in a number of migrants' countries of origin, whether through military actions, to which we are contributing in Iraq or through the desire to set up a government in Libya. I would like to reiterate that we also intervene in a humanitarian way. The European Union, Belgium in particular, is among the leading contributors in this area and it is true that, like all our partners, we have closed our embassies, for obvious reasons, whether in Damascus or Tripoli. In addition, the European Commission has presented a ten-point action plan that can be implemented in the short term. It also received broad support, including from Belgium. This afternoon will indeed be an extraordinary European Council which will have to adopt a declaration based largely on the action plan proposed by the Commission. Of course, we must remain realistic. It would be an illusion to believe that putting the declarations into practice will provide definitive solutions to the crisis in the Mediterranean. The factors underlying this problem, extreme poverty, conflicts, food crises, climate change, will not be resolved overnight. In addition to short-term measures, an overall strategy and structural solutions remain necessary. These will also be the subject of a Communication "European Agenda for Migration," expected on 13 May by the European Commission. In any event, the measures provided for in the European Council declaration should contribute to finding a solution and, above all, to saving lives. Firstly, we need more resources for Triton and Poseidon operations. The European Council should decide to double the budget of these operations, which will increase the presence at sea and thus strengthen the capacity to save lives. We support this reinforcement. The fight against the smugglers of human beings must also be done in a more efficient way. Their ships must be destroyed. It is necessary to prevent them from acquiring ships. Their goods must be confiscated. In addition, the European Council should give a mandate to the High Representative to prepare a possible CSDP mission. The operation Atalanta, which was launched to combat piracy, could set a precedent from which we can draw lessons. However, this option would require a number of legal questions to be clarified. We must also work more intensively with the countries and organisations of the region and strengthen regional protection opportunities. The European immigration and asylum policy must also ensure the necessary balance between responsibility and solidarity. The front-line countries must respect the EU acquis. In other words, migrants must be registered and the Member States concerned must comply with the Union's provisions in terms of reception conditions and asylum procedure. On the other hand, we must also show European solidarity. We are prepared, if these conditions are met, to explain the possibilities of relocation – transfer of refugees recognised in emergency situations from another Member State. We are also in favour of the Union being more ambitious in terms of resettlement – the transfer of vulnerable people from a third State. The European Commission intends to launch a pilot project for 5,000 people. At the Council meeting on Monday, we called for a more ambitious approach with 10,000 seats. For Belgium, this would amount to more or less 250 more people for the next two years, as proposed by the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, Theo Francken. Mr President, Belgium intends to participate in the joint effort by other means. We will continue to make staff, debriefers, available to the Frontex agency, in support of the first-line countries, and we can also increase the number of debriefers if the agency so requests. We are ready to use resources for the joint operation in the Mediterranean. According to Secretary of Defense Steven Vandeput, the command and logistics support ship Godetia can be used in response to the needs identified with the European partners. Other forms of support may also be considered, such as seconded teams on ships. Moreover, Belgium will continue to take preventive action by continuing development efforts in the countries of origin, but also by strengthening cooperation with these countries and the transit countries. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, depending on the decisions that will be reflected in today's European Council conclusions, we will deploy all the means within the departments of the Interior, Cooperation, Defence, Asylum and Migration and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u24	Minister, I understand that you have responded in detail on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u25	Mr President, first of all, I should like to say something. I am pretty much full of those who believe that they have a monopoly on moral indignation, because anyone who does not advocate open borders, more shelter and more resources is apparently a brute, a human being, a hypocrite and what do I know? However, the situation is just the opposite. Until one or two in a thousand of these boat refugees find death at sea, but seven out of ten of them here can develop a life in illegality or legality, they will continue to come. When will it be enough for the left? Is it enough at 500 000, like last year? With your policy, it will never be enough, because the 500 000 will come with 5 million and after that 5 million there will be 50 million. And yet there are still more than a billion waiting to share our fate with them here. That can't be the intention. The only alternative is clear. It may not be the most sympathetic message, but it is the only right message: close the borders, reward illegal immigration, ensure a firm immigration policy, ensure that Europe remains a closed fortress and catch the real refugees in their countries of origin.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u26	Mr President, I would like to respond briefly to what Mr Dewinter said. Those people do run from a very right-wing dictatorial policy. I'm glad the government finally wants to take action. It's just unfortunate that hundreds of people have to die first. It's not the first action plan. I hope that there will now be a sustainable action plan and that it will not remain a dead letter. I do not think that sufficient measures are being taken to address the causes. One of these causes is the political situation in Africa. Above all, we must prevent boat refugees.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u27	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answers. It is a real human tragedy that is taking place in the Mediterranean, at the borders of Europe. We cannot remain insensitive. It is necessary to understand the reasons why all these people leave their country and propose measures to help them upstream, in order to fight effectively against all those smugglers who take advantage of their misery to enrich themselves, disregarding all these human considerations. We will be paying attention to the conclusions of today's European Council. However, Mr Minister, while a European approach is certainly necessary in this area, you also have a role to play at Belgian level in this matter. That is why we will be paying attention to the measures that this government will propose, whether in terms of development aid, defence support or reception of asylum seekers. Beyond the majority-opposition divides, beyond the left-right divides, we must all do our utmost to show ourselves worthy of the expectations of these people that a war situation or a difficult economic situation pushes us to take all the risks in order to try to find a better future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You are right to say that, if we want to address the causes of migration, at least some of the migration will always be migration. In any case, we will certainly have to work in the long term. We must tackle conflict management and improve the economic situation in the countries of origin. So I would like to hear you call for more development cooperation. However, we must also dare to show solidarity at European level. This means that we must provide additional support to the countries at the borders of Europe, including Italy and Greece, for the reception of refugees and for the processing of asylum applications. I want to close my reply with an example from World War II. Then many thousands of Belgians fled to France, to the United Kingdom, or by boat to the United States. At that time, it was not 250 refugees, but hundreds of thousands who were fleeing. Two hundred and fifty is not nothing, but I think we can really do something more than receive 250 extra refugees in the next two years. We must work on that. I am convinced of the usefulness of humanitarian visas. Even if we can't do as much as Germany, we have to discuss in Parliament, among other things, the conditions under which we can issue these humanitarian visas so that we can help refugees.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u29	Mr President, Minister, I will not surprise you in saying that I am a little disappointed with the answer you have given me. I am disappointed to see that one of the main avenues in response to this human distress, which will be presented to the European Council today, is to destroy the ships of the smugglers, block them, which will not bring any practical solution and will only lead to the spread of other routes. Because, one way or another, people will get here. This will only increase prices further on the pretext that risks will increase, and we will have even more deaths. I believe, minister, that we would do much better, first of all, to provide these people with a legal way to apply for asylum in our countries. I do not yet assume that the decision will be taken, but that they will at least be able to file an application for asylum. We must already arrive alive in our territory to be able to deposit it! Secondly, Minister, we must ask ourselves the reasons for the departures of the inhabitants of these regions. There are, of course, socio-economic problems for which, I think, our Western economies have important and overwhelming responsibilities, by the very fact that they really break these economies of the South. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we must also ask ourselves the question of the results of our military interventions in these regions. We thought that with a few bombings, we were going to solve the problems. But what's the record? There have never been so many wars; never so many weapons have circulated in the region until after our intervention in Libya. So we have to stop thinking that we're going to straighten it out. We would do much better to invest all the money we have put in missiles, in development cooperation, to help those countries get out of their economic misery.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u30	Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, you outlined some points in the European Action Plan and what Belgium could do. What I would ask you – and the chairman of the Committee on External Relations is present – is to have an in-depth debate on this, because it is an extremely serious problem, with, why not, the Defence and Home Affairs Committees. We must be able to create an articulated plan of all these elements and go into the details of what we can do. It seems to me important that this goes beyond a debate of a few minutes. Then – and I will reply at the same time to Mrs Schepmans – of course, when people arrive at our house, at the gates of Belgium, that they have survived all this, that they have paid a number of smugglers, of whom we are accomplices, in most cases we give them asylum or we offer them temporary protection. Like my colleague Nahima Lanjri, I ask that the most vulnerable people, the wounded, the women who have been raped, the families dislocated – I have often mentioned the case of the Yezidis – be chosen on the spot in order to rescue them by granting them a humanitarian visa, temporary protection. It is not a question of receiving them permanently, but of restoring their dignity, of providing them with the necessary care. That is the way to proceed, Mrs. Schepmans. We must stop putting away barriers and only welcome migrants when they are here. Finally, I ask that the cooperation tool be much more flexible than the one available today. It has been known for years that fire has raged in the marches of Europe. The South is not only concerned; it is also the case in the East. Meanwhile, our Development Cooperation continues to make cooperation elsewhere. It doesn't make sense. We need to adapt our cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u31	Mr President, I must say that I have heard a lot of fine words here, but very few budgetary commitments. I also heard a number of contradictions, which are particularly striking. I hear Open Vld and CD&V are in favour of humanitarian visas. At the moment that Nahima Lanjri made that proposal here, I saw Theo Francken shaking no and pushing for CD&V chairman Wouter Beke. Humanitarian visas are not a policy. Then what are you doing here, ladies and gentlemen of CD&V and Open Vld? I note a second paradox, which illustrates once again the lack of consequence. We need to address the causes. CD&V calls for more development cooperation. A few months ago, thanks to you, ladies and gentlemen of CD&V, the majority here approved a declining budget for development cooperation At the end of your term of office, Mrs Lanjri, the budget for development cooperation will be the lowest in 17 years. I hear Minister Reynders talking about conflict prevention, but I expect some honesty in that regard too, my fellow Members. The budget for conflict prevention has reduced the majority this year from EUR 17 million to EUR 5 million. Let's stop dubbing fine words and convert them into policy. That didn't happen here today. There are good things, though, just to be clear. We'll send the Godetia and we'll deal with the human smugglers. However, if we still have to discuss at European level a doubling of the number of resettlements in Europe from 5 000 to 10 000, if that is not even certain, if there is nothing to be done today from the Belgian Government, then shame is over. It's a humanitarian tragedy. We can do much more than the weak European consensus. You didn't convince us here today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for listing the various actions and plans and for the continued use of resources. Mr De Vriendt, I have heard the word means here. There is a continued use of resources. That's partly reassuring. Minister, we share your vision. By the way, we have increased our commitment to resolution, there is still Article 9a on humanitarian regularisations and 98% of Syrians are recognised as refugees. So we put every day on the shelter of Syrians to give them a better life. Only if, at all levels, Belgian, European and at the level of the United Nations, and at all levels, in the fields of internal and external affairs, development cooperation, defence and asylum and migration, the fight is united against the source of all misery and the responsible smugglers, who abuse the misery of the victims, will we find, regardless of justified minutes of silence and without prejudice to unjustified political attacks, humane and humanitarian solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u33	[[Mr President, I have heard what Mr Dallemagne has said about intervention, at least solidarity, in the countries concerned.]] I welcome our Government's willingness to participate in a genuine common asylum policy at European level and, above all, to carry out genuine solidarity between European countries with regard to all the issues that we raised during these inquiries.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u34	Minister, allow me a confidence. I will tell you that I appreciated your first statement at the time of the tragedy when you said that Belgium had to take its share of responsibility, regardless of what Europe was doing. You've obviously entered the ranks in the meantime. The demand for an emergency European Summit through your response finally appears as a smokescreen to evacuate what you yourself mentioned in your first statements, that is, Belgium's responsibility. This allows you not to change this government's asylum policy from an iota to an iota. Citizens can continue to die without you throwing away your asylum line. Mr Minister, as you know, Belgium must, without having to fall behind European decisions, act at its level. For this, members of your own majority have said, you can issue more humanitarian visas. I call on your Government not to follow Europe but to set an example, namely that at national level Belgium is making arrangements that honour the European project and the ideal of solidarity and freedom. Then Europe will follow!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u35	Minister, I would also like to thank you on behalf of our group for your reply. I won't use the word "satisfied." That would be a little inappropriate in this context. Our group notes that the government immediately committed itself to a number of additional actions and to show solidarity, not only with other European countries but above all with people in emergency situations. Our group would also particularly like to call on the ministers responsible for the dossier to continue working together on the European cart in such a way that we can find a more humane solution to the issue in a global European context. As a democratic and humane society, we can no longer accept that the Mediterranean is becoming a mass grave for many people. We're following the file closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u36	Mr President, Mr Minister, once it is not customary, I would like, in the introduction to my speech, to have an emotional thought for an eminent figure in the Armenian community of Belgium: the batonier Édouard Jakhian. For those who knew him, the elegance of his thought, the correctness of his verb, his intellectual rigor, made him not only a great lawyer in his professional life, but also a great moral advocate for the recognition of the Armenian genocide. The Yerevan ceremonies of tomorrow and the coming days will remind us that Europe and humanity have a debt to the Armenian people. Of course, the European Parliament and some countries, including ours, following a Senate resolution, have recognized the Armenian genocide. Yves Thernon recalls in La Libre Belgique today that today there are no more renowned and credible historians who establish the recognition of the Armenian genocide in the same way as the Shoah or genocide in Rwanda. It is clear that only a stronger political will, especially from the European States, will allow the Armenian people to finally achieve the recognition of this genocide at an international level, starting with the Turkish Republic, which, against all logic, if it is willing to reflect on its own interests, continues to fail to recognize the importance and gravity of the events to which the Armenian people were subjected in April 1915. What surprised me, when I read the press, is that tomorrow the Belgian representation at ceremonies would be limited to an ambassador and that there is not at least one member of the government - perhaps even the Head of State - to associate with other heads of State with the representation of Europe in the circumstances. Mr Minister, I suppose the federal government can say today that it also recognizes the Armenian genocide, despite the overly cautious or reserved statements made by the spokesman for foreign affairs, as referred to in today's Free Belgium. You may also be able to have a member of the government present at these ceremonies tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u37	Mr Maingain, first of all, I would like to join in the tribute you paid to the Jakhian stickman. You do confirm that Belgium will be represented at official commemorations by our ambassador in Moscow, who has Armenia in its jurisdiction. I'll be in Yerevan on April 26 and 27. I will have the opportunity to visit the memorial in my capacity as Chairman of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe; the Secretary-General will also be present at the commemorations on behalf of Belgium. I would like to honour the memory of the Armenians massacred in 1915-1916. In the context of the centenary, I encourage Turkey and Armenia to continue their efforts to normalize their relations in order, within the framework of a dialogue, to seek recognition of what really happened during the 1915-1916 massacres. The government's position is very clear. It is structured around the following points: Turkey's accession negotiations should improve bilateral relations with Armenia. It is necessary to clarify the sufferings that have been suffered during these massacres, in order to allow for genuine reconciliation which is, in the end, the value at the origin of the European construction. We therefore encourage Armenia and Turkey to continue their efforts to normalize their relations, to ratify and, if possible, to implement also without preconditions the two bilateral protocols signed in Zürich in 2009. In conclusion, I would like to make it clear that the term "genocide" has a specific legal meaning, defined in the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, and that it is up to the courts to decide on this matter. We do not think it appropriate for other bodies to replace the judiciary. But we will continue our work to promote reconciliation between Turkey and Armenia. I assure you, on 26 and 27 April, that I will have the opportunity to visit Yerevan and to commemorate all those who suffered so much on the occasion of these important massacres on Armenian territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u38	Minister, allow me to express my dismay at your reply! You cannot say here, on behalf of the federal government, that you recognize that there was genocide in 1915. Yet historical reality prevails, whether you like it or not, over legal reality. Historians, who met again at the Free University of Brussels recently, at the initiative of associations representing the Armenian community, came to say so forcefully. During the 20th century, there were three great genocides! And the Armenian genocide is indisputable! You take refuge behind legal cunnings for not having the audacity to do what others do in Europe, including the French president, including the pope, including other authorities. I therefore understand why today there is only one ambassador who will represent Belgium! I expected something else from you, especially when you joined Edward Jakhian's memory.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u39	Mr. Secretary, today the book The Secrets of State Security appears. The results do reveal some special, mildly expressed abuses. One of the problems is the shortage of personnel in the security of the State. Thus, if we can believe the book, protection orders were refused. It is reported that between 2010 and 2012 one out of four assignments was refused, as there would be no staff or sufficient specialised staff. The bodyguards are getting older and have to carry out huge tasks. The number of unrecorded catch-up hours would have increased by 44 000 hours over the last three years. In the previous government it was decided to transfer the surveillance of VIPs to the federal police, as a possible solution to that shortage of personnel. Minister, the surveillance of Heads of State, among others, has meanwhile been transferred to the federal police. How many people can be deployed for this today? Is the current capacity sufficient to carry out the surveillance orders? The increasing European summit events in Brussels also increase protection orders. Will you adjust the capacity for this in the future? Do you have a plan of action for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u40	Mr Demon, one of the twelve measures to combat terrorism and violent extremism was the transfer of 55 protection assistants from state security to the police. This requires an amendment of the law. It will be incorporated into the law several provisions, which will be submitted to Parliament in two weeks' time, so that the matter can be settled. Then 55 assistants will be transferred from state security to federal police. They are merged with a team of 45 federal police staff. The new organic table 3 or OT 3 also provides for an additional increase of 20 people, so that we have a total of 130 employees on protection instead of the current 55 employees. This will continue to evolve in the future, as the number of requests for protection orders is increasing steadily. We will keep a constant eye on this and check whether the capacity now being increased is sufficient to meet the applications. The case will therefore be followed up in greater detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u41	Minister, I am satisfied with that result. It is important that you, together with Mr Geens, take a close look at the dossier. More and more European summits are being held in Brussels. So our country absolutely cannot afford to compromise its security. I therefore hope that we will be able to quickly evaluate and assess whether additional measures would be necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u42	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when your government is imposing an index leap for all workers and social recipients, as your government is partially reviewing the pension system without substantially and structurally increasing the smallest pensions, at a time when your government is imposing economic measures in all departments, although justified by a lax policy of the past, we are being told that 60% of illegal people are present in our prisons. Of the 11,769 detainees currently held in Belgium, 5,421 were foreigners, of whom 3,200 were illegal. Given that an inmate costs the State about 200 euros a day, if illegal detainees were to be returned to their country of origin, it would save 656,000 euros a day, or nearly 200 million per year. Minister, what policy do you intend to adopt and what steps do you intend to take quickly to stop plucking in the pockets of workers, employers and retirees?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u43	Mr Carcaci, I must apologize to the Minister of Justice, who is abroad. He gave me the answer. It is true that the detention of persons in prison represents a significant cost to society. The Justice Plan of the Minister of Justice refers, on the basis of the budget for the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions, to a cost of about EUR 50 000 per person in detention per year. It goes without saying that this also applies to persons without a residence permit, who are very much present in our prisons. They form a large group in our penitentiary institutions, namely more than a quarter of the penitentiary population. In the Justice Plan, the Minister of Justice has proposed a strategy to reduce the number of people without a residence permit in prison. He refers to the marginal numbers 128 to 131 of his justice plan. The second potpourri draft will propose amendments to the Act of 17 May 2006 governing the external legal status of the convicted persons. Finally, he said that, in consultation with his colleague responsible for Asylum and Migration, he would take the necessary steps to ensure that the amendment of the law effectively leads to an efficient exit of persons without a residence permit from prison.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u44	Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to thank you for your answer. In any case, I will follow closely the development of this matter and will not fail to question the Minister of Justice in committee, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u45	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our security services must work more effectively, and this must be a constant focus. Society is evolving, our opponents are evolving, and so it is logical that the security services should be given and used sufficient opportunities to respond to this. Terrorism threats, personal security, cybercrime, you name it, all our security services must respond to these threats. The publication The secrets of the State Security of journalist Lars Bové, which we have already read in De Tijd today, reveals a number of concerns about the functioning of the State Security. It has just been referred to, but there would be insufficient resources for a number of essential matters, I am speaking on a conditional basis. We should think about the payment of informants or the payment of personal protection. Even a branch in Antwerp apparently needs to be literally understudded with shavings in order to guarantee the safety of the building. Apparently there is also insufficient protection of sensitive information and there is a lack of transparency. In addition, the security services complain about a lack of interest among previous political leaders. Finally, information would also be collected outside the legal framework and there would be a lack of control. Minister, sometimes people read things that are not possible in 2015, at this time of insecurity. It's as if the State Security's star remained silent. What is the Minister's reaction? I mean, of course, Minister Geen's response to the pain points quoted in the newspaper? I'm assuming the book hasn't been fully analyzed yet. What steps will be taken to develop State Security into a performance organisation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u46	Mr President, Minister, I would like to add my colleague's words. We obviously have the same readings: the book published either in L'Echo or De Tijd. Perhaps I will focus on issues that have not been addressed by the previous interrogator. Mr. Minister, it is learned that, in the course of the investigation, our State Security is seeking to contact agents of telecommunications companies, in particular, make moles, invite them to violate their professional secrecy, to give Internet addresses, to communicate telephone and gsm numbers, information that is a matter of privacy, without any control, without the control of Parliament, of course, or even of the government. I make you and your predecessors comfortable. Yes, the services have been working with moles for many years, and no, the government is not aware. Minister of Justice, in this Parliament in 2010, we accepted legislation on specific methods of research, in order to frame them and avoid this type of situation. On reading this today, Minister, my question is as follows. Do you invalidate or confirm the information published in De Tijd and L'Echo? If they are correct, is there not a real problem? I am thinking, among other things, of the legality of the prosecutions that have been brought against those who are our common adversaries, particularly in the context of the fight against terrorism. We all subscribe to it, but it must be done on a legitimate, legal and universally accepted basis. Will the budgetary resources that the government has made available for State Security allow tomorrow to reward these moles but in an official and legal way? Is there a need, yes or no, for legislation adapted to the specific state security situation that allows for effective control, such as the control of police or intelligence services (Committee P, Committee R)? What is the opinion of the Minister of Justice in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have not, of course, been able to read the book. I see you already have it with you, and maybe you've already read it. I don't know if it's worth buying it. The Minister of Justice will, of course, be able to discuss everything that has been published in L.Echo, De Tijd and all the advertising of the book in the Committee on Justice or in the plenary. However, he has informed me that the government recognizes that in the past there have been problems with the financing of the State's security and that measures have been taken in recent months to address this. I'll go over the measures quickly. First and foremost, during the past budgetary control, the government decided to drastically increase the effective resources of the service. Staff appropriations will increase by as much as 19%. Since the local operation of the intelligence service is extremely important in the fight against terrorism, extremism and radicalisation, additional resources will mainly be used to strengthen state security provincial posts. In addition, the service will also receive a one-off sum of EUR 4 million to make additional investments this year. In addition, Mr Jambon has already referred to this point, and the transfer of personnel protection from state security to federal police has taken place. A few comments have just been made on this. As regards the question of the operation and operational activities of the State Security, the Minister of Justice has stated that the services are in the process of evaluating the BIM law and its application. As you know, this law regulates the methods of collecting data by intelligence and security services. The results of the evaluation will be used to adapt the law where required. The Minister of Justice also states that the draft law will be submitted shortly after the parliamentary recess.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u48	Minister, perhaps more will appear in the media in the next few days, as other issues become known in the book. Next week, coincidence or not, we will be visiting State Security with the committee. I believe that this will give Parliament the opportunity to review a number of allegations. Your colleague's answer will help us in advance. We expect from Minister None and the government that further action will be taken. We welcome your listing of the efforts being made and the evaluations announced. I also believe that the Committee I has a role to play in examining this further over the next few months. For our group, it is quite clear that effective intelligence services are essential for the security of this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u49	Thank you, Minister of Justice acting. You mentioned the budgetary aspect of things, which is important. In passing, I note that the budgetary resources allocated to justice will be used mainly for State security and not for the refinancing of justice itself. On the other hand, I mean that you leave the door open for an assessment of the law on accompanying the intelligence services. It is essential to say in this Parliament that there is no state in the state, that there is no organization, no body, whatever the purpose it pursues, that is above the laws we have. State Security, like any other agency, Deputy Prime Minister, must be subject to control. It cannot, because it has specific needs to fulfill, be beyond the law. Control is essential and we will have to work on it in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u50	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's figure is EUR 42.7 billion, and even EUR 42.8 billion. This is the amount of the state tax on natural persons, from which the federal and regional taxes are determined: the basic tax for the federal state, the regional supplements for the regions. It is on this basis of EUR 42.8 billion that, during the budgetary conclave, you would have determined that the Regions would receive EUR 750 million less for their own budget conclave. I would therefore ask you, Mr Budget Minister, to confirm to us that it is this figure of EUR 42.8 billion that you have chosen, in respect of the tax on natural persons, for your budgetary conclave, but also for determining the proportion of the revenue from the tax on natural persons to be returned to the Regions in respect of their regional additions. I ask you the question because there are differences. You were able to read it in the press or through a number of statements, even on the occasion of the Consultation Committee. The Ministers-Presidents of the Walloon Region and the Brussels-Capital Region, in any case, as well as their Budget Ministers, have written to the Government for explanations, in particular on the method of calculation adopted by the Department of Finance. They wrote to the Prime Minister. They still have no answers to date. It's been more than two weeks. In the same way, a number of observers, such as Mr Hilgers, who is the head of the Walloon Higher Finance Council, have been heard to doubt the figures that have been used to determine this state tax which concerns both the federal and the regions. Therefore, Mr Budget Minister, my question is very simple: do you or do you not confirm this figure of 42.8 billion, with regard to the State tax on natural persons?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u51	Mr President, Mr Laaouej, I thank you for your question, although I think that this first question addressed to me personally could have been put to the Minister of Finance, with regard to the statement of revenue. Having said that, I am very pleased to meet you on this occasion. There is the concept of tax-state, the factor of autonomy and finally the result, that is, the regional additions, which were fixed a little arbitrarily – but it needed an agreement – by the four political families of the time, to the figure of 25.99% for the years 2015, 2016 and 2017. It was the sixth reform of the State. Of which act. We must collectively take this decision. I confirm the figure of 42,794 billion. This figure differs by 45,951 billion, hence the difference of 3.16 billion that is being debated today. It differs because, when at the start of 2015, the work was done, it was based on revenue figures 2010, fiscal year 2011. In the meantime, revenue figures for 2013, fiscal year 2014, have been re-estimated. These figures come from the FPS Finances, on which I do not exercise guardianship. Interesting work has been done in the Walloon Parliament and I would point out that there has been no manipulation. Everyone agreed on that. A communication was made on Thursday afternoon by senior officials. For example, Mr. Donnay of the Planning Office confirms that at least a very large part of this amount appears to be justified. In a way, these are cash advances. All this will be recalculated in 2017, following the sixth state reform. I can't say anything more, that's how it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u52	Mr. Chair, I thank the Budget Minister for his very clear response. Yes, the federal government has used $42.794 billion to determine this tax. The state from which the remaining federal revenues and revenues are determined is based on regional additions. I take note of that. This will feed, I am sure, our future work in the Committee on Finance and the Budget. However, it is regrettable that no response has yet been given to the Ministers-Presidents of the Walloon Region and the Brussels Region and their Budget Ministers regarding access to all the information that determines the figure advanced by the FPS Finance. That is why I am telling you in this forum that my colleague Stéphane Crusnière and I have decided to write to the Court of Auditors today in order to have access as federal parliamentarians to the determination of this important amount not only for the Regions, but also for the federal state budget. We want to be able to understand how they reach a figure of 3 billion less than that which had been retained, for example, in the initial 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u53	Mr President, Madam Minister, the government agreement states that "the establishment of a suitable social status for general practitioners and training specialists will be studied". This long-speaking phrase has caught my full attention. Articles about the precariousness of this social status were still published in the press yesterday. I am concerned about this, and I think that this is also an issue for you and the government. The training specialists denounce the non-respect of working time, the pressure of the traineeships and the exceedance of the mandatory guards. It's a case we know, which is not new, but one that needs to be dealt with. A solution should be found. If we had a miracle solution, it would have already been implemented for a long time. I want to be careful about this because I think that we need an agreement based on consultation with general practitioners, training specialists, but also with hospitals. We need a real balance. This is a difficult issue, I have just said, because it is about the lives and health care of citizens. Behind this, there is also, we cannot deny, a budgetary and organizational problem of continuity of health care for patients. Minister, have you ever had time to take stock of this issue? I know you've had a lot of files to handle for six months. Have you already taken any steps with the sectors? Have you ever brought together different actors on this topic? Do you have a schedule? Patience is not one of my great virtues, I always like to find solutions quickly. But I know that you always study your files carefully and that you often arrive with a suitable solution. Have you had any contact with the Minister of Employment, who is also concerned with this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u54	Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, I understand the concern of doctors in training about their sui generis status, which does not provide for a pension or assistance for the unemployed. This problem is not new. She's been known for a long time. The aspirations in this regard are relevant, in particular because the effects of sui generis status and its consequences for the young doctors concerned have increased in recent years, since the duration of postgraduate specialist medical training has been steadily extended, while basic medical studies already last six years, for some still seven years. Clearly, the implementation of a full social status of salaried workers for this group of highly qualified young people has important budgetary implications. This is an understandable request from these medical specialists in training, but it should be pointed out that the same problem exists for general practitioners in training, who want their social protection to be placed at the top of the list of priorities. It's mentioned in the government agreement and we're working on it. Even in this case, it will probably not be possible to find a solution to this problem in one way or another. If the financial resources for this are available, it will be important to proceed gradually, first by consulting several people, above all by calculating and drawing up a kind of road map to achieve this protection, whose demand I fully understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u55	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive answer. I had no doubt that you were not going to find a solution today, but I really wish that we could deal with the problem, that we could make calculations, know where we are going and determine whether this project is feasible or not. The government agreement is a Bible here and is highly respected. I think you will take care of the problem while keeping a balance. You went around the question: hospitals, doctors, trade unions. We need to look at the whole thing and find a realistic solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u56	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Syndicate of Flemish General Doctors today clearly stated that the cost of a house visit is too low compared to the price of a consultation in doctor's practice. This is a question you must be very fond of. The bottom line is that a consultation without supplements and without appointment costs 24.5 euros in practice and 37 euros when the doctor comes home. The Syndicate proposes 45 euros, the European average. It goes without saying that there are a number of arguments to go to doctor's practice: loss of time, traffic jams, parking problems and efficiency. The quality of care, something close to our hearts, is also higher in doctor's practice than in a home visit, since in practice all medical devices are available to make a proper diagnosis. House visits must remain possible for people who really need them or people who cannot move or who are very difficult. In addition, consultations should continue to be encouraged in practice. Figures show that the number of house visits has fallen by a quarter over the last ten years and this trend continues. Madam Secretary, I have two questions. First of all, what is your view on the proposal of the Syndicate of Flemish Generalists to make house visits more expensive? Secondly, are you planning initiatives to encourage further consultation in doctoral practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u57	Mr President, Mr Janssens, this is a question from one medical syndicate. I have no idea that all the syndicates agree with this question. In my opinion, raising the fee for a house visit from EUR 37 to EUR 45 is unrealistic in the current context. I have been careful during the past budgetary control to ensure that the agreements made under the Medicomut agreement were not called into question by additional savings. I had committed myself to this and I kept that commitment. During the negotiations for the Medicomut agreement, therefore, the subject of the price increase was not put on the table by any partner. You know that the Medicomut agreement has been concluded for a year. This means that it is not now possible to carry out such fees. We do not have the budgetary room for this either. The Syndicate's aim with this proposal is to avoid home visits for inappropriate applications. It is true that family doctors often find home visits time-consuming and that some complaints can be better cared for in practice. I am sensitive to that and I have 25 years of experience with it myself. There are patients who ask for a home visit rather easily before or after Family or because they do not like to sit in a waiting room. That group will always exist and we must dare to tell them that they can come to practice better. It is my concern, however, that an increase in the fees or the brake on house visits could be a brake on those who do need a home visit and really cannot move around. It is natural to distinguish such applications from those which do not meet those criteria in a correct, precise and unambiguous manner. I will therefore not take any initiative at this time to increase this fee. They are free to put this back on the table one of the following years with a next Medicomut agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u58	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I note and find it very positive that you share this concern. I can only repeat that both the patient and the general practitioner benefit from a consultation in doctor's practice. I will, of course, continue to follow this up in the Committee on Health. I have every confidence in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u59	Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the Social Activation Fund, from which the OCMWs draw to combat poverty, means a huge amount for children in poverty. Whether or not a hot meal at school, whether or not the sports club can participate in an educational trip, makes a big difference. It's obvious business for you and for me, but not for poor children. You don't know them, I hear you say, you don't see them. No, they are particularly good at hiding, but they are there, the children who are psychologically and emotionally damaged every day, because they can't, because they don't belong. Going to the sports club, moving and a balanced meal every day are things that have a huge impact on children's health and even on children's life expectancy. I could put 100 studies here, prove that. You don't have to be a misguided pedagogue, like me, to know that never going on a trip or never being able to get anywhere has a huge impact on the intellectual development of children. Now the government saves 20% on these resources. Or no, I'm wrong, it wasn't 20 %. It's only 15%, so you announced with a lot of branie. Fifteen percent, Mrs. Sleurs, it looks like you're proud of it. In my hometown, Leuven, that means 7 500 euros. That amount seems peanuts, in our hemisphere, but with 7 500 euros a municipality can deliver a lot of hot meals and buy a lot of sports subscriptions, which are very important. You are proud to say that money will come from the National Lottery for poverty reduction and projects around it and that you will award a price for poverty reduction. Instead of seriously helping OCMWFs and local authorities fight poverty, you place them in competition with each other. After a lot of paperwork, they might get part of the cake. The OCMW's are rightly angry about this. I ask, together with them, what it will be for the government. Will you continue to do windowdressing? Will you continue to spread prizes and set up platforms, for which all mayors are entitled to sign, while on the other hand you are taking away the money that is needed, or will you behave worthyly, dear members of the government, and will you come back to your decision and think again about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u60	Mrs Jiroflée, the federal government is making additional efforts to combat child poverty. In the most recent budget round, we have released an additional EUR 4.5 million. The OMCWs do not fall within my competence, but I will answer your question because child poverty is indeed my responsibility and is one of my priorities. The fact that the budget amounts to EUR 9.4 million does indeed mean a savings of 15%. However, that is still less than what the government has imposed on itself. I repeat, moreover, that the OMCWs have not used up the available resources in the past. I have committed myself to continuing to play a leading role in the fight against child poverty. That is what I did during the budgetary round. An additional EUR 1 million has been made available for the local consultation platforms, which are being continued. An additional EUR 1 million will be allocated to poverty reduction projects, on which local authorities can indeed sign up, which is not competition, but can mean more efficiency. I have consulted the Minister for the Budget and indeed the resources come from the National Lottery. But it is important that we can give priority to the fight against child poverty and use the resources for it. This will allow poverty organisations to obtain additional funding to help people in precarious situations to meet their basic needs. An additional EUR 100 000 will also be made available for poverty-related studies. Added together, this amounts to EUR 4.5 million in additional resources, which are available. So I can clearly say that we do want to combat child poverty.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u61	Madam Secretary of State, allow me to doubt that. With prizes and projects, you will not fight child poverty. Combating poverty is not a game. Organisations and OCMWFs do not need prices. They want to help and you deprive them of the means to do so. 15 % or 20 % colleagues, what does it really matter? There is no saving in the fight against child poverty, because a saving in the fight against child poverty puts a mortgage on the future of the children concerned and on our entire society. I hope you will reconsider that, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u62	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u63	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Kattrin Jadin, Richard Miller, Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Peter Luykx, Sarah Claerhout
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u64	The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (901/8) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (901/8) The title was amended by the Commission in its draft resolution on the Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) from 27 April to 22 May 2015.' The title was amended by the proposed resolution commission on the Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) from 27 April to 22 May 2015. The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u65	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the text before us today by our colleagues in the MR is aimed at determining the government's position at the NPT Conference, which will take place from 27 April to 22 May. Of course, my group associates itself with the general objectives put forward by the authors of the text, as well as with the bulk of the requests contained therein. The NPT, which has a central international position on nuclear non-proliferation, is the basis for the disarmament efforts of the international community. In my view, the House must indeed take initiatives to ensure that Belgium continues to implement the decisions taken over the past five years to advance the cause of nuclear disarmament. There is also a need for the current government to take further concrete steps in this direction. As we know, disarmament can only be effective if it is reciprocal, multilateral, effectively monitored, verifiable and, of course, definitive. In this context, the vision of the PS has always been clear. We share the vision of a world without nuclear weapons, since Belgium has always been at the forefront of the global fight against so-called "salt" weapons. I am thinking here of anti-personnel mines, cluster munitions, depleted uranium munitions, those spreading ionizing radiation or chemical weapons. However, my group is convinced that in order to ensure that nuclear disarmament is effectively balanced, the reduction of nuclear arsenals can only be the result of multilateral negotiations in which Belgium must continue to participate actively. To continue these struggles, we must be consistent between our ambitions in international forums and the positions we adopt in our territory. In order to do so, action must be taken with the competent authorities, namely the federal authorities, instead of getting rid of the Flemish parliament. We therefore propose that Belgium commit itself to taking decisive action in favour of international initiatives for further disarmament and for the prohibition of the production, financing and use of weapon systems with indiscriminate effects and/or which disproportionately cause civilian casualties. We also call for its commitment to make its active contribution to ensuring compliance with the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and the prohibition of the presence of nuclear weapons on its territory. We must recognize that the basic text of the majority is minimalist. If he agrees in large part with the positions of my group that I have just outlined, he avoids other issues and mixes some of the debates. I have therefore asked the authors a number of questions in committee. I'm only gonna take two. I will start with demand 14, on which we would like much more clarity. Does Belgium defend the global expansion of energy production through nuclear power? This would be paradoxical in view of the exit of nuclear power laid down in the law for 2025. Does this demand confuse civilian uses, for example in the medical sector, with energy production? If we cannot omit the medical uses of nuclear power, we could not support such a paradoxical demand in committee. A word also of the request 15: why have you included the North Korean and Iranian dossiers which are however completely different? How do the government and the authors respond to the ongoing Iranian nuclear negotiations and the American position? On this point, I also received very succinct answers. These two demands are, for my group, very problematic and paradoxical. That is why he voted against the first and abstained from the second. Ladies and gentlemen, this text should also enable us to position ourselves ambitiously at the national level. It is to this end that my group tabled an amendment incorporating a point in the operative part of our resolution on the future of National Defence, which the majority rejected as a whole before the parliamentary holidays. For the PS, it is imperative that our country and National Defence be included in the fight for nuclear disarmament, in multilateral negotiations in which Belgium and its National Defence must continue to participate actively, in order to free our territory of any potential nuclear weapons presence. On the substance, my group is convinced that nuclear deterrence is completely overtaken by the facts. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome the constructive spirit of opening up the majority, once it is not customary, who accepted the amendment which I tabled in committee with my colleague, Mr. Van der Maelen. This amendment, which is now fully reflected in point 2 of the text, clearly calls for Belgium to be firmly included in the fight for nuclear disarmament, within the framework of the multilateral negotiations in which Belgium continues to participate actively, in order to free its territory from any nuclear weapons presence. I hope that today's plenary session will confirm this strong demand. I am surprised, however, that it was not until the Socialist opposition proposed such an amendment for the majority to take a stand on this subject. A majority in which the Flemish parties, N-VA in the lead, boast everywhere this week of their pacifist struggle with the adoption of a resolution in the Flemish Parliament. In this regard, I am surprised at the absence of the same ambition at the level of federal power, which, beyond symbols, would allow it to move from intentions to actions. Furthermore, I can only be indignant, Mr Luykx, to read in this morning's press that, in your opinion, the majority is holding the same debate, while you are basing yourself on the Socialist amendment. It's dishonest and misleading! Without us, this issue would not be included anywhere in the text of the resolution. It is therefore a political marketing in the head of your group, on the back of the opposition which was constructive in amending this text. Yes, we can be proud of this amendment, which gives this text a historic position, clearly encouraging the government to act on it. If the intention of the great Powers is never to resort to this weapon of mass destruction, let us stop on our scale from pawning with our actions, including the purchase of military equipment. It would be a mistake to buy the most expensive plane on the pretext of a mission that he will never have to fulfill, at least I hope. I'll make it up to you. If this text is not perfect on several points, as I was able to say earlier,...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u67	Mr President, I very much like Mr Crusnière and we are happy to work together in the Committee on External Relations, but I find that truth still has its rights. It is thanks to the text of the MR, a majority party, that we have the opportunity to discuss – and this is very well – the issue of the NPT conference here in plenary. Of course, the majority has been so open that we have accepted an amendment to the PS, and you have rightly done so, and I thank you for that, and I welcome it in committee. But now you turn it as if it was thanks to the PS amendment that the debate was finally taking place here in plenary. Too much is you, as they say! I thank you for having tabled this amendment, which we have voted for, but the initiative for reflection lies with one of the parties of the majority. Truth has its rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u68	Mr Flahaux, I do not understand your reaction very well. It is obvious that you tabled the text, we amended it and I thanked you for it. All I want to say is that this amendment is owed to us. So when some parties get it back, they could at least report it! I'll make it up to you. If this text is not perfect on several points, as I was able to say earlier, I am convinced that the Socialist amendment really brings a more concrete, even historical, to this debate. A world without nuclear weapons, without weapons of mass destruction, must not only dream. It must continue to be built. The hypocrisy in the head of some groups on this subject, as well as the reasons I have explained to you before, mean that my group will oppose this text, but of course will continue to wait for concrete action by the government in this area in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u69	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution tabled by our colleague, Kattrin Jadin, co-signed by Jean-Jacques Flahaux and myself, has been the subject of very interesting debates in committee. These are included in a fairly comprehensive written report. For these discussions, I would like to thank the various Commissioners, in particular the President, Mr. Van der Maelen, who has organized our work so that this text can be submitted today for our approval in open session. This was important, since the resolution concerns the five-year Conference of 192 States Parties to the Non-Proliferation Treaty, which will open in a few days' time in New York at the headquarters of the United Nations. A parliamentary resolution has the limits that are naturally or regulatoryly its own. However, ladies and gentlemen, these limits should not lead us to neglect the positive contribution of a resolution debated and voted by the Assembly of Elected Members. This is a formal request addressed to a government for the implementation of various points, which have been adopted by the institution which controls the action of that government. This is therefore not at all negligible, especially since the debate on the placement of nuclear missiles in Belgium has given rise to many military issues, but also of a constitutional nature, including the importance of parliamentary support for the executive in the management of nuclear weapons. Texts have been published in various Belgian law and international law journals. That's something I wanted to insist on. Voting and debating and then adopting a resolution and the points that this resolution recommends for government action is an important element.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u70	Mr Miller, I share your view that discussing nuclear weapons here is an essential and democratic issue since it is weapons of mass destruction with extremely important humanitarian consequences. The use of the weapon, as well as an accident related to the use of the weapon, such as improper handling or indelicate transport, could have enormous humanitarian consequences. You just talked about parliamentary oversight. Your majority is pleased to have a parliamentary debate here on the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. Will you have the same debate and transparency with regard to the presence of American nuclear weapons based in Belgium in Kleine-Brogel? As ecologists, we expect the same transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u71	Dear Mr Hellings, you know how often our points of view meet. I will address the subject, but you will allow me to follow the development of my reasoning. It will also be a way for me to respond to the Socialist Party. I am disappointed by what Mr Crusnière has said, and I will come to it. Colleagues, the Ninth Review Conference will mark the forty-fifth anniversary of the entry into force of the Treaty and the twentieth anniversary of its indefinite extension in 1995. Before recalling the issues at stake at this Conference, on which we will have the opportunity to question our Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs next June, I would like to reiterate the importance of this Treaty. Since 1968, it has been the basis, and in a way the basis, of the nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation system. It is therefore not a negligible Treaty. It contains provisions aimed at preventing the spread of nuclear weapons and nuclear weapons technology, promoting cooperation for the peaceful use of nuclear energy, promoting the objective of nuclear disarmament and general and complete disarmament through a treaty under strict and effective international control. It should also be recalled that the Treaty is the only binding commitment made by the nuclear-weapon States under a multilateral treaty for general and complete nuclear disarmament. Colleagues, participants in the 2015 Review Conference will therefore have to address a number of fundamental issues that are incorporated into the resolution tabled by the majority. I am thinking of the principle of universality of the Treaty, which is aimed at India, Pakistan, Israel and Southern Sudan. I am also thinking of nuclear disarmament itself, particularly through concrete measures. We know that the five nuclear-weapon States and the three nuclear-weapon States, but not the NPT, continue to invest considerable sums in a new generation of their vehicles and in the security of nuclear warheads. This is one of the electoral issues for our British friends with or without the renewal of their nuclear submarines. We also know that the Americans and the Russians are not currently negotiating a new bilateral disarmament treaty, which should, on the one hand, according to President Obama's statements in Berlin in 2013, reduce by one third the weapons deployed and, on the other hand, include tactical nuclear weapons, Mr. Hellings, a topic that is of particular importance to our country. In this regard, I recall that the parliamentary majority supporting the government, including my political formation, has expressed support for the reduction of tactical nuclear weapons in Europe, provided that it takes place within a multilateral, negotiated, transparent and verifiable framework, leading not only to the withdrawal of these weapons but to their ultimate destruction, a negotiated framework that must take into account solidarity and respect for our commitments within NATO. In fact, it was in this sense that the majority of the N-VA, CD&V, Open Vld and MR actually adopted an amendment to the PS and sp.a, which was in line with this logic, formulating more precisely what was already contained in the spirit of the text. We accepted the amendment, which was to clarify it more explicitly and which was in line with the objectives of the resolution in relation to Belgium. Indeed, we believe that the elimination of all nuclear weapons is an indispensable objective, to which we must strive, but through a verifiable and irreversible multilateral process. It is therefore only in such a process that nuclear weapons which are supposed to be on Belgian territory can be dismantled. In other words, it is only in such a process that the majority and, I hope, opposition colleagues who will vote for the text of this resolution will put an end to a decision taken in November 1979 by the French-speaking and Dutch-speaking socialist government. It was our Socialist, Francophone and Dutch-speaking colleagues who approved the first of these weapons. I do not criticise the decision, since I think it has played an important role in the aftermath of events. But if you come here to the rostrum to claim you are more pacifistic than the Liberals, because opposed to nuclear weapons, while this decision has been taken and carried by a socialist government, I think it is frankly a little excessive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u72	Mr Miller, we are more pacifistic than you and the Socialists. There is no doubt about that. We were not in this government. We didn't exist yet. By the way, it may be because of this that we were born. Mr Miller, I recall that nuclear weapons must rid Belgian soil only if there is an agreement at NATO level or at a supranational level within the framework of this Treaty. Why is what is impossible in Belgium possible in Greece, which told the American ally that it refused to carry its bombs in 2001? Why is it possible in Canada, which is a strategic ally of the United States, a neighbour? These two countries, Canada and Greece, have unilaterally removed US nuclear weapons from their soil and have not suffered reprisals. They are still members of NATO and strategic partners of the United States.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u73	Mr Miller, I think these peace issues deserve better than a war between the PS and the MR. I do not understand why you put conditions in place and that, I quote: "It is only in such a process that the nuclear weapons supposed to be on Belgian territory can be dismantled." Your party is in the government. What makes it impossible for you to decide purely and simply that Belgium refuses to have nuclear weapons on the territory of our country? The Flemish Parliament recently adopted a text clearly refusing to accept nuclear weapons in Kleine-Brogel. I guess it's not to move them elsewhere in Belgium. A very clear decision must be made. Belgium could be an example, a model for denuclearization, starting with cleaning up in front of its door and hunting Belgium's nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u74	I will answer you directly, Mr. Van Hees; it also allows me to answer Mr. Hellings. Why don't we? Because we simply believe that this is not the right attitude. You have your point of view, we have ours. I'm trying to explain why. It seems to us that, by using euphemism, the world is not taking the path of pacifism that we would like, and we therefore believe that, in order to ensure security, it is necessary to establish rules in relation to NATO and to estimate the possibility of moving towards the denuclearization of armaments present on European and global territory. This can only be done through an agreement and a multilateral way. However, ladies and gentlemen, nuclear disarmament is not only about destroying existing weapons, but also about preventing their development through the prohibition of nuclear testing. We must therefore continue to advocate for the universality of the Comprehensive Ban Treaty. The cessation of testing is currently subject to a simple moratorium. Efforts must continue to negotiate a fissile material cut-off treaty, which has been blocked for more than a decade by Pakistan and which is known face-to-face with its Indian neighbour. A third theme concerns the fight against nuclear proliferation. I believe that the agreement with Iran is a good sign, which requires the scrupulous implementation of all parties, including the majority in the US Congress and the future US President. This agreement indicates the will of the international community, after twelve years of efforts, to remain firm on a number of principles: no to military nuclear, yes to civilian nuclear with transparency guarantees provided by the International Atomic Energy Agency. Without being too optimistic, in a region covered by many tensions, this agreement with Iran could - and I am using the conditionality - allow for the reintegration of that country into the regional diplomatic context with a constructive and positive attitude, which it has no longer had since 1979. It will therefore be interesting to observe whether this agreement will lead to progress in the implementation of the 1995 resolution on the Middle East, i.e. the establishment of a nuclear-free zone in that region. It can therefore be seen that the disarmament dossiers, even if they are excessively technical, have political implications that are crucial to the peace and security of the whole region. Finally, I would also like to welcome the contribution of the opposition in this debate on the humanitarian impact. Three conferences were held on the subject. Belgium was represented. It must continue to play a positive role in this type of forum as set out in the amendment tabled by our colleagues, Mr Piedboeuf et al. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, this issue of nuclear disarmament remains particularly complex and has implications for global peace. The Reform Movement supports the realistic policy of our Foreign Minister Didier Reynders, who continues the efforts of his predecessors. It pursues a pragmatic policy by seeking the support of the European Union's partners in order to make progress on the issues by avoiding unshakeable bursts of light and by avoiding – I insist on this point – unilateral gestures that would isolate us. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution that we are going to vote for in support of the government's policy is responsible. Of course, the MR Group will support it. And I would like to thank those colleagues from the majority and the opposition who will also vote for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u75	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is the fourth time I have taken part in a debate on a proposal for a resolution in preparation for a conference on the Non-Proliferation Treaty. We had a debate here in 2000; we had a debate here in 2005; we had a debate here in 2010. Now, in 2015, we have a debate on the Fourth Review Conference of the NPT, which dates back to 1995. I would like to thank those Members who have taken the initiative to prepare a resolution. I would also like to thank the committee members. After all, we have had a fascinating discussion and a fascinating debate in committee. I will not deny that I was somewhat disappointed with the outcome of the debate in committee. What happened yesterday in the Flemish Parliament, although it does not have competence, seems to me to be a clear political signal. After all, the three Flemish majority parties in the Flemish Parliament have demonstrated voluntarism to work on the nuclear-free world. They are also committed to the removal of ten to twenty tactical nuclear weapons, most likely in Kleine Brogel. That gave me courage. That is why I have retabled my amendments, which have been rejected in committee. My fellow Members, who have been in politics for a long time, are becoming suspicious. I hope I'm wrong. It may well be that people at the Flemish level, because they know that there is no need to draw any conclusions from the theories that they take, dare to go a little heavier, while the federal level, which has to add the deed to the word, is a little more cautious. The motion for a resolution on which we shall be voting may therefore consist of fine words, according to my words, but do not look at my actions. With my speech today, I want to test whether the new climate, which has existed since yesterday, has any effect. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I am sorry, but this motion for a resolution is far below the 2005 resolution. I will come back to that later. You used very nice words. At various points in the resolution it is said that the Chamber, or rather the majority in the Chamber, believes that Belgium should make a multilateral effort to create a nuclear-free world. My fellow Members, the words are there, but I have tested them in committee and want to do so again now. I propose, through an amendment, the initiative taken by the Austrians and mentioned in the jargon the Austrian promise of the Austrian pledge. Ladies and gentlemen, at present there is only one multilaterally supported initiative to create a nuclear-free world, that initiative which is supported and drawn by the Austrians. The reasoning behind it is based on the fact that in the past we have managed to make the world a little safer by categorizing cluster bombs and land mines as inhumane weapons, because they do not only cause military casualties. According to international humanitarian law and international criminal law, weapons must not, in fact, affect civilian casualties. Well, in 2011-2012, the Red Cross, an international organisation with representatives from many countries, decided to go on a new path, taking into account the ongoing efforts to create a nuclear-free world, accepting a global treaty to call nuclear weapons inhumane. And inhumane they are, colleagues! I don't need to remind you of the collateral damage to the attack on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Hundreds of thousands of civilians have left their lives there. The Red Cross is committed to achieving a multilateral treaty declaring nuclear weapons inhumane worldwide. Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted that amendment to you. Despite the fine words in the majority text, which believes that Belgium should play a leading role in the elimination of all nuclear weapons, it has voted away my amendment. I can only conclude that your words are fine. You, MPs of the majority, do not seem to have the political courage to call on the government at next week's non-proliferation meeting with Austria and three other European countries in total, by the way, there are already 60 countries that need to make progress on the Austrian promise. Colleagues of the N-VA, CD&V and Open Vld, despite what you approved yesterday, I fear that you will vote on my amendment later. In doing so, you make it clear that you are not adding the deed to the fine words in your text. There is only one chance to make concrete what is in the text and to phase out nuclear weapons by multilateral means. This is my first disappointment. My Amendment No. 18 offers you the opportunity to add the deed to the word. If you want to make up for the fine words that were spoken yesterday in the Flemish Parliament, you will have the opportunity to do so. Secondly, what is the big difference between the proposed text and, for example, the 2005 text? Ladies and gentlemen, you are going around a very tricky point with a big bow. Unfortunately, I only have the English version. I read to you Article 2 of the Non-Proliferation Treaty.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u76	Article 2 of the Non-Proliferation Treaty states that no signatory State may have nuclear weapons of another State on its territory. In 2005, I was also in the majority at the time, and I was even the group leader, we did not try to hide this problem, as you do. We have also had difficult discussions on this within the majority and with the government. We then had a text which you now find in Amendment No. 19, an amendment that you also voted out. What is the text of that amendment, which was included in the resolution in 2005? In this text, the Chamber asks the government to talk to the Dutch, to the Germans, to the Italians, to try to initiate the discussion with them on the tactical nuclear weapons still present in Europe. That was our text in 2005. There's nothing in your text about that thorny point. The fact that Belgium, together with four other countries, is acting in violation of the Non-Proliferation Treaty is something you are walking around. It is not new either, when I see what turns are being made when it comes to purchasing or replacing the F-16 and whether or not it should have nuclear capabilities. I've never seen so much twisting. This is also the case in the debate on tactical nuclear weapons, which must be modernised. At some point, the U.S. is retrieving those weapons, and isn't that the time to say they shouldn't come back? However, the majority members are uncomfortable in their seats. You want to remain silent about this problem; you do not want to do so in your resolution. These are not NATO weapons, colleagues. In the resolution I took a step in your direction. I have said that they will not do so alone and they must try, but you do not even want to do so. In this text you don't even want a passage that says... There have been examples. I remember the Foreign Ministers Yves Leterme and Karel De Gucht, who took steps towards other countries to reach a decision on withdrawal. Even that's not what this majority wants. I come to my final point. Unfortunately, my colleague is not here. I'm afraid you'll fail the two tests, but then you won't be off, because there's a third test. That's my bill. I would like to return to Mr Miller's story for that. Mr Miller, as a Member of Parliament, it may be interesting to repeat the history of the law of 1962. I've read the preparatory work. My fellow Members in the Chamber will probably know that the Constitution stipulates that the Chamber will decide on the presence of foreign troops on our territory. In 1962, the then government took the initiative to submit a draft law in which the Chamber agreed to allow the government to decide on the possible presence of foreign troops on our territory. This resulted in a very vague and general text. There was an intelligent senator of PS signature, Mr Rolin, who tabled an amendment to the bill in 1962 which, in summary, meant that the legal text cannot and cannot form the legal basis for the presence of nuclear weapons in Belgium. That amendment was tabled by Senator Rolin. The Minister replied that he was worried about nothing and that he would better withdraw the amendment. The Minister undertook that no nuclear weapons would be stored in Belgium on the basis of the 1962 law. What happened, fellow Members? However, nuclear weapons have been accepted on Belgian territory by the then government. I have now prepared a legislative proposal that will be discussed for the first time in the Committee on External Relations. To put it simply, we are adding Mr Rolin's amendment to the 1962 law, which makes it clear that the presence of Belgian nuclear weapons cannot be justified on the basis of the 1962 law and that arms must be withdrawn. Colleagues, once again, and Mr Hellings has already done so, please stop pretending to be NATO weapons. These are weapons from the United States. These weapons can be decided bilaterally by Belgium and the United States. That has already been done. Mr Hellings referred to Canada, but in the past it has also happened in Greece. In Britain, too, tactical nuclear weapons have been removed, as in Germany, on one of the two bases. Ladies and gentlemen, this has never been the subject of discussion or decision-making in NATO, which has always been decided bilaterally between the countries concerned. As for the bill, here's the thing. I ask, together with Mr Grosemans, that the joint working group, consisting of members of the Committee on External Relations and of the Committee on Defence, be set up as soon as possible to examine this proposal. I ask that this be done in the coming weeks. This will then be the third credibility test. I hope you don't fail the first two tests and we can successfully complete the third test. Colleagues, stop pretending that these tactical nuclear weapons are necessary for our security and our defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u77	Mr van der Maelen, I have a question for you: you are confusing multilaterally and unilaterally. Yesterday, your group voted in favour of the Flemish Parliament. I read out the text of what was approved: 'The Flemish Government is calling on the federal government, in consultation with the European Union and NATO partners, to commit itself to a nuclear-free world..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So what you are saying here is not at all in line with what your fellow Members in the Flemish Parliament said yesterday, and that is why I would like a clear statement from you, because I am very confused.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u78	Mr Vandenput, I will do my best to overcome your confusion. We are discussing different issues. A first point is a nuclear-free world. You say that's what you want, but I'm asking where the actions are. We agree that a nuclear-free world requires a multilateral approach. That is what I have included in my first amendment. I ask you why you are not taking part in the only initiative at present to try to create a nuclear-free world, particularly the Austrian slope, based on what the Red Cross is proposing, by declaring nuclear-weapon inhumane. A similar road was followed for landmines and cluster munitions. In this way, we can also create a nuclear-free world. We therefore agree that the slope is multilateral, but I note that you do not want to go on that slope, because in committee you did not approve my amendment. A second point concerns tactical nuclear weapons. You say that you want to talk about this, but not unilaterally, but in a broader context. Now, why do you approve my Amendment No? 19 isn't good? That amendment says, quite translated, that the Chamber is asking the government to contact the other countries to try together to remove tactical nuclear weapons. If it is submitted to you in committee, you will vote it out. Then I see how suspiciously quiet it is and how uncomfortable you are when I ask if the replacement of the F-16s should have nuclear capacity or if I ask what we will do if the Americans modernise their weapons. I know you want to keep those guns here, but you don't want to say that. After all, you know that your constituents and your own parties are opposed to this. Mayors for peace ! Dozens, even hundreds of mayors have already declared that they are opposed to tactical nuclear weapons. Do you understand now? That was the second point. Then there's the third level I just mentioned. You are wrong to depart from the argument that these are NATO weapons and that they need to be discussed in a broader context. I refer you to historical examples. There are other countries that had American tactical nuclear weapons on their territory and managed to remove them after bilateral talks with the Americans, without involving other countries. That's the third piste in my bill. I hope you will follow that slope when we can discuss it in a working group within three weeks. If the Greeks and the Canadians do so, and if the Germans and the British did so, why would we not dare? I'm rounding up. I refer you to the explanatory memorandum to my bill. Ivo Daalder, the former US ambassador to NATO, said that he felt that American tactical weapons in Europe in 99,999999999 % of cases were totally superfluous. What are we waiting for? There will be no problem, especially with Obama, if a majority is found in this Chamber to ask. The bill allows for discussions with the United States and, if necessary, with allies. Why can't we decide what the Greeks, the Germans, the Canadians have decided? Why can't that be simple? Ladies and gentlemen, I hope I am wrong, but you want those weapons to stay here. That resolution is windowdressing, parole parole parole, but when it comes to action, you don't give it at home. I hope I'm wrong. You'll be able to prove that in the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u79	Mr van der Maelen, I am probably the only person you heard a speech that was quite similar 25 years ago. At that time, Karel Van Miert was still in Parliament. Is all you've said in those 25 years, not parole, parole, parole? Because what have you ever done about it in concrete terms? Now you come here to lecture the younger generation. Twenty-five years ago, you held identical discourses. To my knowledge, the socialists have been in power from 1988 to 2014, you may have been out for two years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u80	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u81	Mrs. Temmerman, in politics, you can have a memory, can't you? The sp.a became a medium-sized party in the 1980s by the anti-missile movement and joined the government in 1988. The missiles were set in 1984-85. You have had 27 years to carry out what you said at the time, but in all these years it was apparently not worth a government crisis. Mrs Temmerman, what is said here today by Mr Van der Maelen and yourself, is totally unbelievable, parole, parole, parole.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u82	Mr President, I listened very carefully to Mr. Van der Maelen. Everyone can have their opinion. I accepted what he said, I took notes, I was about to answer them. But I cannot accept this kind of accusation that is based on nothing and that is to say that we are going to vote for a text so that we can do the opposite. But it's insulting, Mr. Van der Maelen! We are parliamentarians, we have negotiated in a majority a text which aims to give our government and our Foreign Minister a line to know what will be defended at this international meeting concerning the abolition of nuclear weapons. What do you think we are? Fantoches? We have debated, we know what we want. And we are quite consistent with what we are saying, which is not the case with sp.a. Mr. Van der Maelen called for the Rolin amendment. Yes, that's the 1962 law, you're right! But who changed the Rolin amendment? Who made the decision bend? It's the sp.a. I assure you! Read the texts again! I can even give you, since you don't have it, the link with an armament research group, the GRIP, which is a completely legitimate and honourable association. It shows, point by point, how, even against Mr Gol's opinion – finally, I will say it, I heard so much in the parliamentary committee that it was the Martens-Gol government! – Willy Claes wanted to impose the implementation of the Euromissiles. Reread your texts, it's a socialist decision! Today, within the European framework, while respecting our commitments to our European partners, to our NATO partners, we want to try to promote the implementation of this treaty, which aims to denuclearise the global military space.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u83	Mr Miller, I can join you in the idea that some socialists have not always been consistent in terms of pacifist ideas and that some have led NATO. Mr Miller, you are offended to hear that this text actually shows the opposite of your intentions. However, I have the impression that this is what you were forced to recognize when you were in the gallery earlier, when you answered the question as to why Kleine Brogel could not be disarmed. If I can hear you correctly, it is not possible because the time is more to war than to peace, to proliferation than to non-proliferation. I find exactly the same kind of reasoning with regard to the MR resolution on Palestine when it comes to officially recognizing Palestine. That was the statement of the resolution. However, when we read it well, we could see exactly the opposite. You put everything in place so you wouldn't recognize her. Today, the technique of the MR is to put in place resolutions that aim to reverse their title.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u84	Mr Van Hees, I like to listen to you and your colleague. You teach us about the truthfulness of our words and the authenticity of our commitment, etc. Yesterday, I particularly appreciated the response of our minister, Daniel Bacquelaine, when he demonstrated and disassembled your speech of saying: "We are democrats, we must, etc.," while what you defend and hold as a political objective is an extremist vision of our society. With your words, you try to activate a social fight to attack institutions. Go and file a complaint with the chambers of the court! This is an assembly. This is not the people's court. Here, it is parliamentarians who defend ideas. If you're not satisfied with what we're saying here, go and file a complaint! Mr President, I maintain that the text that is the subject of this debate positions us at European level with regard to our commitments to NATO. If we vote on this text, it is because we are convinced that the government's policy will fit in with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u85	Mr Miller, I am not going to argue, but when I hear names of birds like "extremist", etc., it simply shows that your argument is deficient. That's all you've been able to demonstrate through your intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u86	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking my respected colleague Eric Van Rompuy for what he has just said. He has just said that Van der Maelen has been saying the same thing here in the gallery for 25 years. So let us begin by stating that I am consistent in everything I say about this dossier. Colleague, I have to admit that so far it has been nothing but words. When it came to taking action, there was always a majority in this House who was not prepared to take that step. Today I see that the majority is really very large. Take it from me, if we compare this resolution to 2005... when we talk about times when the sp.a was in the government..................................................................................................................................................................................... I referred here to Article 2 of the Non-Proliferation Treaty, which makes it clear that this cannot be done. Secondly, if we want to be credible on the international scene when we talk about a nuclear-free world, which means that the five nuclear weapons have to reduce their numbers and that the rest cannot have one, then we are totally unbelievable if we have 20 tactical nuclear bombs in our own territory against the non-proliferation treaty. That is what I have been trying to explain to a majority in this House for 25 years and what people do not want to see. I also know what the explanation for that is. The explanation is that those fellow Members of this House, I assume, in their honour and conscience, believe that our foreign policy is best served by slavishly following the United States. Even the United States is now giving signals that they do not need to do so. Ivo Daalder, the outgoing ambassador to NATO, says those weapons are not necessary. Still, you're holding on to that. I don't understand. Now is the chance to turn my words into deeds. Mr Miller, I gave you two points. I admit that the text is well written. I suspect that text was written on the Foreign Office. The majority parties have then been able to sit around the table and may have changed a word or a sentence here and there. In short, the text is well composed. There are beautiful words and beautiful phrases in it. But, ladies and gentlemen, the text contains no millimeters of progress and no milligrams of pressure on this government to go a little further. The current Foreign Minister was also Foreign Minister in the previous government. He has shown that he is a lukewarm supporter of the Austrian piste. At the very least, after what was approved yesterday in the Flemish Parliament, I expected such a signal to be sent. I do not think that the government would fall if the text, as we propose, were that Belgium should consider whether it could go further together with other countries, under the leadership of Austria, with regard to the inhumane declaration of nuclear weapons. It is a mouse's step, and yet you refused it, ladies and gentlemen. You ask us to believe the fine words of your text, but on tactical nuclear weapons you stick your head in the sand. You don't even want to talk about it! We suggest from the opposition that they be removed. You know what I think: these are not NATO weapons, so this can only be done with the Americans. You don't want that. You're wrong. Then I suggest we take an intermediate step. Let us include in the resolution that we ask that the Belgian Government meet with the Dutch, German and Italian Governments to see if the common position can be reached to remove tactical nuclear weapons. But you don't want that either. You don't even want that. You are asking us to believe you, as if this text is really helping us forward. Ladies and gentlemen, this text does not help us. This is a standstill!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u87	Mr. Van der Maelen. I'm not here as long as you are. I have listened with great interest to your plea. I had hoped that this resolution, together with the resolution adopted yesterday in the Flemish Parliament, would be seen as a strong signal. Everyone's behind it. The only difference between the resolution adopted yesterday in the Flemish Parliament and the resolution before us today is a wailing Dirk Van der Maelen on the floor. Your amendments are not included, so this is not good. This story is bad. We're all unbelievable. Even your own fellow Members in the Flemish Parliament agree with this on the same basis and within the same contours. You'll have to read it very carefully. Mr Vandenput said it earlier. We could have approved this over the parties and the parliaments, but there is one lamentable complaint that continues to sound on the banks: I am not participating. I think you are isolating yourself and ignoring the essence of this resolution which is good.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u88	Mr Luykx, of course there is a difference. I think it is a good thing that this debate has also been held in the Flemish Parliament in all seriousness and that a strong signal has been given there. The difference is that the Flemish Parliament cannot decide on this. That is what we must do at the federal level. So the bar is higher with us. Now it's up to us to decide. Then we will indeed look at the text of the majority. Is that a breakthrough, a real decision to ask the US if the nuclear weapons are being removed? No. You're going under the bar. The Flemish Parliament, Flanders, your own Flemish groups are looking at this House to decide. You cross the arms, you choose a status quo and you keep everything as it is. People were looking at us to move on. You haven't wanted to do it so far. Our group has tabled an amendment in order to take that final step. Mr Van der Maelen is right to point out that this should not be decided by NATO at all. That is not possible either, because some countries use their right of veto over and over again. Fortunately, there are countries that have already been able to do this bilaterally in the past, unilaterally, in an agreement with the US. That's what happened to Greece and Canada, so it's possible. The Flemish Parliament looks at the Chamber of Representatives, but you do not give at home. You don't want to take this final step. Our group and Mr Van der Maelen's group are prepared to do so. That's the difference. There was talk of the past here. I have not been in Parliament as long as Mr Van der Maelen, but I do remember the People's Union. I do remember how pacifist that party was back then. I can only observe that since the People's Union moved to the N-VA, a lot has changed in your own party and unfortunately not for the better, Mr Luykx.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u89	Mr President, I would like to ask Mr Luykx a question to which I have still not received an answer. Mr Luykx, why does your party not think it is worth including in the text of the resolution that Belgium would be taking part in Austria's initiative? Why doesn't your party think that's worth it? Do you have an alternative? No, there's no alternative. So why don't you want to? Secondly, why do you not want to take a position in the text on tactical nuclear weapons? In 2005, the majority did. Why don't you want that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u90	Mr van der Maelen, I do not want that because it is a very good resolution, which I fully support. It's that simple. Your own fellow Members in the Flemish Parliament share the same view. Why go looking for the constant bonding of all kinds of small additions? Why do you not approve the resolution text? I'll reverse the question. Why can't you support this text? Explain that to the general public.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u91	Mr Luykx, all the time I've been standing here, I've been trying to explain it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u92	I would like to respond to our colleagues at the N-VA. Point 2 of your motion for a resolution reads as follows: "to promote, through concrete measures, the objective contained in Article VI of the NPT, namely the elimination of all nuclear weapons through a verifiable multilateral process (...)." The text that was adopted yesterday by all the Flemish parties in the Flemish Parliament speaks of "the withdrawal of nuclear weapons from Flemish soil" – this withdrawal does not depend on multilateral action to be taken by the states – "in concert" – which is quite normal – "with NATO countries" – indeed, this organisation is also concerned. That is the fundamental difference between the Flemish motion for a resolution voted yesterday and the one being debated today. Unlike the latter, you are not planning to withdraw nuclear weapons on Belgian soil.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u93	Mr President, we can of course look endlessly for these differences here. I will also quote from what was said yesterday in the Flemish Parliament: 'We are in favour of a realistic, reasonable approach, believing that we can achieve the best results in this way. This means that we attach importance to an international multilateral approach. We have agreements within NATO and within Europe, and it is in this context that we need to have a dialogue. We do not want to be naive, but ask the federal government to examine with NATO partners and with the European partners what steps can be taken in nuclear disarmament." That was approved yesterday by, among other things, Green.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u94	Mr President, I would like to clarify what Mr Hellings said. He read item 2 of the original text. I assume that he has inadvertently omitted the amendment that was adopted. Mr Hellings, the amendment says: "to firmly include Belgium in the fight for nuclear disarmament within the framework of the multilateral negotiations in which Belgium will continue to participate actively, in order to free its territory from any presence of nuclear weapons." It is in the text, it is the amendment by Mr. Crusnière and Van der Maelen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u95	I'll try to explain it in French. What you say doesn't mean anything, it's just words. My amendment No 18 gives practical effect to this by noting that, for the time being, there is only one international initiative to achieve nuclear disarmament, that of the Red Cross, which Austria has taken over. Some 60 countries say that this initiative needs to be supported. We offer it to you and you refuse it! Words, yes, but deeds, no!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u96	What makes the difference between the text adopted yesterday in the Flemish Parliament and the text that is being discussed is that you condition the liberation of Belgian territory from nuclear weapons for multilateral dialogue, particularly at NATO level. Whether it is in the original text or the amended text, you condition it in any case! Mr. Miller, that's the difference! The step we are asking you to take is to say that, in any case, we want a Belgian territory free of nuclear weapons and, eventually, we will discuss it with NATO partners. The decision to make is to free our territory from these weapons.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u97	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Miller for his careful reading of the new point, which 2 does indeed take up our amendment. This demonstrates the value of this amendment. When he said in the rostrum that this was already reflected in the text, it was proof that it was necessary. I thank the majority again for its openness. That was the purpose of this amendment and it has brought something much more precise, more obvious and clearer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u98	That is correct, Mr Crusnière, as I said earlier in the gallery. I thank all the colleagues in the majority who felt that your amendment was a necessary clarification. That is why we voted for it. It is included in the text of the resolution, which I hope will be adopted. Mr. Hellings, you said there was a difference. I respect your point of view. Indeed, there is a difference. We place our vision in a European multilateral framework and in relation to our NATO commitments. But I don't accept the way Mr. Van der Maelen always treats over the leg the content of our text, as if it contained no commitment. Apart from your original fault, Mr Van der Maelen, which I recalled earlier, there is a difference between you and us, which is quite normal in a political assembly: you do not trust the government. But we do, Mr. Van der Maelen. You can do any demo you want! We have confidence in the ability of this government and the Foreign Minister, Mr Reynders, to take the diplomatic contacts necessary for the European Union to speak with one voice and to defend ambitious disarmament proposals. It's written in this text. I can assure you that it was not the firm that wrote it but Mrs Jadin, who has a very beautiful pen and is the main author of this text. Secondly, we trust the government, through concrete measures, to achieve the objective with a verifiable multilateral process. It is a commitment we make, it is recommendations that we will vote for this government that we support.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u99	I wanted to ask the sponsors of this resolution for clarification. What gives some political weight to this resolution is indeed an amendment from the opposition. That is the most concrete element of this motion for a resolution. Mr. Miller's acquiesce. I think he's right to do it. That is what gives a little political weight to this resolution because we are in concrete things, which concern us personally. On the other hand, where I am no longer quite the reasoning of Mr Miller, it is when he says that there is a difference between our resolution and the resolution of the Flemish Parliament, whereas Mr Luykx has just told us the opposite.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u100	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u101	Already, you're nuanced. Either it's the same thing, or it's different. I would really like to know that because this resolution of the Flemish Parliament is very important, it has received the unanimity of the democratic groups in Flanders. This is a relatively concrete resolution. Of course, it is based on a framework of consultation. It really concerns the nuclear arsenal present in Belgium. I would therefore like to know whether these resolutions say the same thing or whether they differ. If they are different, it also poses a political problem. It cannot be admitted that the same political groups defend different things according to parliaments. I would therefore like clarification from the N-VA and from all the groups of the majority on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u102	Maybe we didn't get along well. Sometimes I tend to speed up the flow. I agree with Mr Luykx when he answered Mr Hellings' question about yours. It's the same process. And if I am not mistaken, a text for a multilateral response was voted on yesterday in the Flemish Parliament. It's an important element. And it is this multilateral element which is reflected in our text and which is supported by the agreement of our majority. Mr Dallemagne, everyone has his own experience. I have the experience of a regional power; I was a Walloon Member of Parliament for fifteen years. In my view, it does not pose any difficulty for the Vlaams Parliament to vote on a resolution concerning Flanders and Flemish territory. Here we are at the level of a federal assembly and we must make a provision concerning Belgium. That is entirely legitimate. I should even like to welcome what has been voted on at Flemish level from the moment when it is aimed at a multilateral resolution of the problem we are talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u103	Mr President, I would like to reply to Mr Dallemagne. Mr Dallemagne, if you read both texts, you will find that it is about the same thing. In the majority we have no problem with inconsistencies. The only inconsistency that exists today is that of sp.a, which approved something different yesterday than today. That's the only inconsistency. You do not have to believe me; you only have to read the text of our motion for a resolution and the text that was adopted yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u104	Mr Vandenput, I believe you. I simply note that it was necessary for the opposition to add this element to the majority's resolution so that it would finally be in line with the request of the same political parties in Flanders. This clarification was necessary in order for there to be some concordance between the two resolutions, otherwise yours would omit the situation in Belgium and simply talk about the international situation, as if in the end, what we were going to do tomorrow with the nuclear arsenals based in Belgium did not concern us so much. It is also important to understand at the political level that the majority had, in a form of lapsus, completely forgotten that the main problem for the Belgians was this nuclear arsenal in Belgium!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u105	Mr President, I will conclude with two points. Mr Vandenput, I'm a little concerned about your mental health. When Open Vld, the N-VA and CD&V in the Flemish Parliament say that they want to remove tactical nuclear weapons from Belgium multilaterally, when the federal motion for a resolution does not say anything about it, when a colleague like me then submits an amendment to make sure that tactical nuclear weapons disappear multilaterally, and when that amendment is voted off, I must warn you: such situations can lead to schizophrenia: say something else in one place and in another place. I will conclude with something on which there may be consensus. Mr Miller has just said that an important classical difference between majority and opposition is that the majority have confidence in the government, whereas the opposition does not. Our Rules of Procedure, ladies and gentlemen, require the Minister responsible to make an annual note on an approved resolution explaining to the Chamber what he has done in the past year with regard to the problems described in the resolution. Let us agree, ladies and gentlemen, that in a year's time in the Committee on External Relations we will be discussing the report that Minister Reynders will be presenting to us. You have faith in it, but I don't. I hope, then, that, for example, Minister Reynders will be able to say, despite nothing in the resolution, that he considered Austria's efforts worth making a Belgian contribution to it. However, we certainly are not of that kind. We would have had more certainty if the majority had agreed to include it in the resolution already.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u106	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what happened last week in the Flemish Parliament produced an interesting debate. It has just been mentioned: a good signal has been sent from a parliament which, normally, does not deal with nuclear weapons and the nuclear doctrine. One looks in the direction of the Chamber, as it is not Flemish competence. Yesterday a resolution was adopted at the Flemish level, but in fact the federal policy level has the power to act on international policy and ask the United States to take action on the removal of nuclear weapons. To be honest, I think we have come to that point. We should call a cat a cat. We have been referring for years to consensus and consultation within NATO and the multilateral framework to remove those weapons, but we are realist and we know that will not happen within NATO. I'll talk about that later. The majority of NATO Member States are open to discussion, while a small number of countries are blocking them. In other words, if we look at the agenda of the NPT conference, which is the subject of the present motion for a resolution, then we should not expect a breakthrough there either. It is therefore a challenge for all parties, including yours, Mr Luykx, who are busy chatting with your neighbour when you are confronted with an NPT conference that will not lead to a breakthrough. That is a first consideration. Secondly, if you are faced with a NATO in which a number of Member States persist in refusing to work on nuclear disarmament, and if you continue to say that you are in favour of the removal of nuclear weapons, there is really only one option, namely the bilateral road, in a consultation between our country and the United States, to ask for the removal of nuclear weapons. Apparently, you're not prepared to take that step. For our country, it is said to be ten to twenty B61 tactical nuclear weapons. They are an integral part of NATO policy. It was reaffirmed by NATO at the Wales Summit in early September 2014 that the alliance must have nuclear weapons. But is that doctrine so anchored? Actually, no. This is evident from a report by Pax Christi of March 2011. Some NATO ambassadors were then interviewed. That report shows that half of all NATO Member States are actively in favour of ending the deployment of tactical nuclear weapons. Ten other Member States say that they would not block a possible consensus decision. Only three Members, France, Lithuania and Hungary, say that they are opposed to ending that commitment. In other words, in NATO, a persistent minority does not want to know of a consensus decision to pursue nuclear disarmament. We must therefore do so ourselves, bilaterally, in relation to the United States. Here too, the Netherlands is for a piece of guide country. After all, on 20 December 2012, the Dutch House of Representatives adopted a resolution asking the government to formulate the removal of European tactical nuclear weapons as a hard target. Unfortunately, the government in the Netherlands is not acting in this direction and again refers to NATO policy, but in any case the Dutch House of Representatives has gone a step further, in the sense that it opposes the logic of the government which always refers to NATO. The Netherlands is therefore trying to get out of that multilateral framework. The majority here doesn't. You say that there is no consensus in NATO to remove the nuclear weapons. However, Greece removed the nuclear weapons in 2001. Canada has also removed nuclear weapons through bilateral negotiations with the United States. There are no American nuclear weapons in Germany either. The discussion often refers to Russia's position. It sounds like we are living in a dangerous world, more dangerous than the bipolar world during the Cold War, and that, as Russia is an uncertain factor, we can better preserve the nuclear weapons. Russia is an uncertain factor, but Russia does not have nuclear weapons in the former Soviet satellite states. The nuclear weapons were removed there. Do you know that the United States is the only one with nuclear weapons in other countries? In other words, if we want to get rid of American nuclear weapons from Belgium, that is not even such an illogical question. This is simply a question of logic that is involved in international politics and in whatever Russia has done. An interesting article in your resolution is Article 5. Article 5 talks about the renewal of nuclear weapons, also in its own country. In 2013, a debate was held on the renewal of nuclear weapons. Secretary of State De Crem was then Minister of Defence. At the time, he effectively referred to May 2007 when the process of renewing American nuclear weapons was launched in his own country. If we want to renew American nuclear weapons worldwide, it will cost 12 billion dollars. An expert on the subject, Hans Kristensen, who has come here to speak in the Committee on External Relations, and Mr Van der Maelen knows very well that every nuclear bomb will cost more than its own weight in gold. When I read Article 5 of the resolution, Mr Luykx, I read that you are opposed to the renewal of nuclear weapons. If you approve this resolution, does it mean that you will block the renewal of nuclear weapons? Will you stop the ongoing process or not? I would like an answer to that specific question. Article 5 is interesting and valuable in that sense. Can you answer that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u107	Mr President, as has just been mentioned a few times, the outline of this resolution is clear to everyone, including your colleague Van Besien in the Flemish Parliament. Everything that is called for in this report must always be implemented in the context of multilateral consultations and in the framework of NATO agreements. This continues to apply here too, for everything. Isn't that obvious, Mr De Vriendt? It's all there, isn't it? You must read the resolution as one and indivisible whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u108	Mr Luykx, I apologise, I thought you would be braver on that point and leave the multilateral framework on that point, but I seem to have been mistaken. Your umbrella remains open, so you can continue to refer to the lack of consensus in NATO to do nothing at all in your own country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u109	There are also obligations against the benefits and desires of the agreements we make internationally. I continue to endorse this approach, which is also reflected in this resolution. I'm sorry, but that's how it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u110	How then is it that Greece and Canada, in bilateral talks with the United States, have allowed nuclear weapons to be removed from their territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u111	Mr President, Mr De Vriendt, until further notice a country takes the decisions it wants. I have to repeat myself several times because obviously, even if the text is written, you don't want to understand it. By repeating to me, you may end up understanding our position, namely to respect our international commitments to NATO, to Europe, to think about the security of our fellow citizens. We are opposed to nuclear weapons and we absolutely want to achieve a reduction or even abolition of nuclear weapons. For this, we trust our government and tell it what we want it to do. What would you have said if point 5 had not been included in the text and we would not have mentioned the fact that our wish is, of course, to work – I repeat – to stop the modernisation of nuclear weapons, to reduce their role, etc.- Is that what you're saying? The text exists. Our political commitment is written black and white. Contrary to what Mr. Van der Maelen said – it's no big deal because perhaps he has committed a lapsus, as we do, as some people accuse us, when we write – it is not in a year that Mr Reynders will have to explain to the House what he has done to implement the resolution. Pursuant to rule 155 of the Rules of Procedure, reference is made to every six months. As I said earlier in the rostrum, the Conference will be held until May, and as soon as it is over, we can ask the government what has been achieved. Stop saying that this resolution does not commit to anything, that it constitutes a status quo, or even a regression, etc. I believe that with the existence of point 5 and its black-and-white content, we are demonstrating that we want to work towards halting the modernization of weapons; that is not nothing!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u112	Mr President, Mr Miller, first of all, you are right. It is a resolution that the government is committed to continuing negotiations within that multilateral framework, so that there can be a consensus, to do nuclear disarmament. At best, Minister Reynders will come to Parliament every six months to report on all the discussions and consultations that have taken place. However, this has been going on for years. In NATO, however, nothing is moving. In other words, you accept that situation. You know that as well as I do. Secondly, what you just described is also in the coalition agreement. The government agreement already states that the current government wants to commit itself to a nuclear-free world in a multilateral context within that framework, subject to consensus and consultation. That provision is therefore already in the coalition agreement. Thirdly, the reality shows that such a consensus has not been achieved in recent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u113	I am sorry, but there is no reproach in this regard. I would be very surprised, and I think my colleagues would also be surprised if we had tabled a resolution that did not take the general spirit of the government agreement into account. It is true that we have tabled a motion for a resolution supported by the parties of the majority. Perhaps it is surprising that this text is part of the government agreement. We will support him and defend him!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u114	Mr Miller, why do all this work? It's already in the coalition agreement, isn't it? A Parliament can also add value.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u115	Mr. Van der Maelen also said that earlier. This is an important element that must not disappear from our debates. On nuclear weapons, on such complex subjects, the texts of various authors, specialists, constitutionalists and others show that a parliamentary commitment is interesting and may be necessary. I'm not a constitutionalist. I do not know the answer to that question. But it seems essential to me. That is why a motion for a resolution on disarmament, the Non-Proliferation Treaty, does not seem to me to be trivial. That is why our parliamentary majority – we will see how the other groups will position themselves – is resuming the government's commitment to the government agreement, making it clear and saying that we are waiting for results on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u116	Mr Miller, may I ask you a question? How much longer do you want to wait for the NATO Consensus to remove the nuclear weapons? Two years, five years, ten years, 20 years? How long do you want to wait for that consensus?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u117	Mr De Vriendt, I would like to defend a text, but I am not Mrs Sun. I simply note that the Non-Proliferation Treaty is leading to progress. States have committed themselves. Negotiations are under way. I have previously quoted in the rostrum the negotiations with Iran. It's not nothing! An agreement was reached. If I had the power to snap my fingers and say, then that's how I would do it! With the government, which we support, we want to see some progress made at the end of this Conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u118	Mr Miller, with a slamming of your fingers, can't you achieve nuclear disarmament on Belgian territory? With a snap of fingers, the Greek Parliament and the Canadian Parliament have succeeded. Why can't a parliament as democratic as ours achieve the same result with a slamming of fingers? By hearing you, a second thought came to me. I have the impression that the partners of this majority are a bit like alcoholics who promise not to drink in a meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous but the first thing they do when they get out of this meeting is to have a drink.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u119	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, I am absolutely in favour of a good and thorough debate, but at times certain arguments seem to me to have been exhausted. I wonder if it makes sense to repeat them endlessly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u121	Mr President, I would just like to hear from the report of our proceedings that the MR considers it a cinema to be a minute of silence in tribute to all those people who died in the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u122	Mr President, that's not what I said. Mrs Khattabi understood very well what I meant. I understand that it was necessary to mark this minute of silence and we did so. What I found deplorable was that not all of our colleagues were informed of this minute of silence. What I found deplorable was that when a personal question was asked to a minister on the subject, it was necessary to do something that was well known that he would be publicized. Here, I say, it can be recorded in the transcripts. If you want me to repeat it again so that it is super printed, Mrs Khattabi, I will repeat it again: I think you have done cinema!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u123	I suggest that we return to the subject that concerns us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u124	I shall continue with my position, Mr President. (Conversation between Mr Calvo and members of the majority)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u125	Mr Calvo, Mr De Vriendt has the floor. I'm still trying to lead the debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u126	Mr Van der Maelen has just returned very far in history. I also go back in history, but not that far, until 2010. In 2010, a remarkable piece of opinion appeared in the press. The opinion piece was written by Willy Claes, Jean-Luc Dehaene, Louis Michel and Guy Verhofstadt. Those aren't the first to be the best. I quote them: 'By maintaining European nuclear weapons, we continue to give the signal to the rest of the world that nuclear weapons are needed. This indirectly stimulates proliferation and undermines our country's security. Sometimes we must dare to set an example and hope that this works inspiringly." In that document, those top politicians of the traditional parties, who are still represented here, argued in other words to set an example with our country, which you are not really doing anymore. You say that we have been waiting for the NATO consensus for years and that you will continue to settle in that comfortable plush, so that we can see if this NATO consensus can change. That way we can wait a long time. Now there is one difference with the authors of that opinion document: there is no N-VAS in those authors. Then perhaps we were still living in the world in which the three traditional political families determined the political game, or at least they still had that illusion, but today the N-VA is the largest party on the Flemish side. So you have a great deal of power to determine our country's position. I am therefore thinking of the People's Union, my fellow Members of the N-VA. The People's Union has actually started as an anti-establishment party, in any direction, but with a very strong pacifist component. I cannot imagine that there is no Wilfried Vandaele in the N-VA group in the Chamber. Where is the Wilfried Vandaele in your group who wants to go beyond NATO's dusty nuclear doctrine, saying that we are fighting bilaterally and that we are taking our country, Belgium, a step further than NATO? Marco Van Hees referred to the Palestine debate. In the Palestine debate we are actually using the same trick as here, the Palestine trick. This is because one pretends to be in favour of something, the recognition of Palestine or nuclear disarmament, one writes a text and then overcharges the cart, knowing very well that there is no recognition of Palestine or of a nuclear-free Belgium in this way. That's the Palestine trick. Another trick we saw during the debate on the future of defence, when they actually made a copy-paste of the coalition agreement. This created the illusion that Parliament works very well and has added value. Mr Van Rompuy, you are a Member of Parliament. I am sure that you also want to do so, a Parliament that can occasionally transcend a government agreement, offer added value and where perhaps and course the route over a period of four or five years reigning spirits can mature and new arguments can be put forward. Then there can be a slight change of direction from Parliament to the government, while the loyalty to the coalition agreement remains. In any case, that step was not wanted here, let us be clear. Mr President, I will conclude with a small couple's thesis on the replacement of the F-16. That debate is becoming a very perverse debate. A while ago, it turned out that the Defense would like to replace the F-16 itself with a device capable of deploying nuclear weapons. The replacement of the F-16s will cost us between 5 and 6 billion euros. The question is whether we are indeed buying fighter planes that can transport and deploy nuclear weapons. It was the same Hans Kristensen, who witnessed the modernisation of NATO nuclear weapons in Kleine Brogel on February 14, 2014. He then said: "If the Belgian Government decided to purchase the F-35, it would acquire a device that has the capacity to fire these weapons anyway." It is very unfortunate that nuclear mass destruction capacity is used in the defense as an argument for purchasing only F-35s anyway. Mr President, in conclusion, we have tabled an amendment which seeks to transcend NATO blocking, in which the Chamber asks the government to engage in bilateral negotiations between our country and the United States in order to remove nuclear weapons. I hope that the majority parties will reconsider this question, in particular the N-VA, the largest Flemish party with a pacifist basis in the past. It is up to that group to evaluate what will be left of it when we vote on our amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u127	Mr President, I have not had the opportunity to attend and participate in the debates that took place in committee on an important subject: 4 400 nuclear warheads today in the world. Nine States still possess this nuclear weapon. Five of them are permanent members of the Security Council, but the others are not. This issue is considerable, because this Treaty, which, despite all its shortcomings and some setbacks (North Korea emerged in 2003, China never ratified it), has also generated successes. Indeed, a number of countries, in the 1970s and 1980s, which wanted to acquire nuclear weapons, such as Sweden, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Argentina, Brazil, Ukraine and South Africa, have now given up. From this point of view, therefore, there are certain successes in the framework of this Treaty. But this Treaty was based on a deal: the powers that did not have nuclear weapons permanently renounced to obtain it, as far as the powers that had it had, dismantled their arsenals. We're a long way from it. Although the number of nuclear warheads has decreased, they have been modernized. They have become more powerful, more precise. And this concern must remain a major concern. When I was a child, it was a matter of concern in the family, in Belgium, in Europe. A lot of people have forgotten that just a stone's throw from Parliament, right across the street, there's an anti-atomic shelter. I visited her. It shows how terrible the anguish has been for our people, for our government. It also shows its delapidated state. This shelter should be restored, precisely to show what remains behind nuclear weapons. This disrepair also shows that this threat has been forgotten. Yet it weighs heavily on us. We will not oppose this resolution. We will even support it, despite the fact that we felt that Belgium and Parliament should at least be able to send a signal within the framework of this NPT and that it is useful to insist on a number of elements, even if they are not formidable advances. I regret, like other colleagues, the sometimes vague terms and the lack of ambition. In my view, there is no commitment in this resolution. We encourage, we support, we work, but we do not ask the government to come and report or commit. Mr. Minister of Pensions, you are becoming a regular in our foreign policy debates. You should ask your Foreign Affairs colleague for a function switch, since you were already there in the Defence debate. Unless this should be taken as the possible pension of our nuclear warheads in Belgium! Maybe you'll give us an announcement on this. Minister of Pensions, since you are a witness to the government, I think it is important for the government to come and report and tell us what its action plan is for this resolution. It is essential to build the capacity to take these initiatives. I have always regretted that we do not have an ambassador who deals with this issue at all times and goes around the capitals. That would be a concrete sign. It is said that we are going to take initiatives but we are not giving ourselves the means to go to the other European countries which also have tactical weapons on their territory, for example Germany, the Netherlands or Italy. We do not discuss the initiatives that we can take together because these weapons no longer make sense in deterrence at the military level. All experts agree, no one will dare to say the opposite. They may still have political value in the sense that they allow us to participate in certain forums, but they no longer make any sense at the military level. No one can dispute that. The government must take steps and initiatives, particularly through this idea of a permanent ambassador on this issue. It is true that a whole series of voices have been expressed in all parties, but few concrete initiatives have finally been taken in this regard. The second element, which I would like to stress, like my colleague from Groen, is that keeping nuclear weapons in Belgium will have a very concrete immediate effect on the choice of aircraft that we are going to buy to replace the F-16s. I interviewed the Minister of Defence in committee. We all know that transporting these nuclear bombs will require American aircraft. If we do not quickly take initiatives in relation to this nuclear arsenal in Belgium, the immediate consequence will be that we will have to buy American technology to replace the F-16s. This is a fundamental question that arises through this resolution. Thirdly, I also welcome the fact that it is the opposition, in the person of Mr Crusnière, who took the initiative to establish the link between the resolution proposed today by the majority and that of the Flemish Parliament, which is more concrete and which calls for Belgium to act in the face of tactical weapons established in our territory and which no longer have any raison d'être. It is important that we remain very concrete in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at first reading this resolution seems to be a step in the right direction. One small step. A hypocritical step, no doubt. But this is probably a missed opportunity in several points. Firstly, the committee which examined this text heard an expert, Mr Tom Sauer, who was very clear. Since the report has not been read, I would like to quote Mr Sauer, who says that he does not understand why tactical nuclear weapons were retained in Belgium after 1991: "All experts agree that these weapons are useless from a military point of view. Thanks to unilateral and reciprocal presidential initiatives by the United States and Russia, most tactical weapons were withdrawn after the Cold War. The weapons stationed in Greece were withdrawn in 2001 for security reasons. The same applies to weapons stationed in the United Kingdom and at certain German military bases." It is the expert you have heard in committee who says so! And he adds very clearly: "This policy is not acceptable, because it runs counter to the NPT, in particular its Article 2." Besides, Mr. Van der Maelen had read this article in English, because it does not exist in Dutch. On the other hand, it exists in French, so I will allow myself to read it to you: "Any non-nuclear-weapon State that is a party to the Treaty undertakes not to accept anyone – I would add: even from the United States – nor directly or indirectly the transfer of nuclear weapons and, a fortiori, their deposit." Behind this, there is also a democratic issue. Do these weapons have to remain in Belgium or not? And, if so, why should they be kept in Belgium? Mr. Miller replied "because." That is the level of democratic debate in Belgium! There is no official explanation, there is no debate on the usefulness of keeping these weapons in Belgium. Belgium is not among the most active countries in the fight against nuclear weapons. I would even say that it is one of the most conservative countries. Why do we not dare to vote in a more offensive way within the United Nations, for example, to support all the progress that goes in this direction? Why does Belgium vote against when Switzerland proposes a text on nuclear disarmament to the UN General Assembly in 2012? Why does Belgium vote against when, at the preparatory committee for the 2013 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, 80 States support a similar text submitted by South Africa? Why does Belgium vote against when similar initiatives were supported by a large majority of Member States at the UN General Assemblies in 2013 and 2014? NATO membership is probably no stranger to these choices. Belgium's position is not ambitious. I note that Mr Miller, who has been asked to clarify his thinking, says to us: "Look at the current international context, this is not the time to question the presence of these nuclear weapons in Belgium". Let's thank Mr. Miller. He clearly states the substance of his thought, which is, I suppose, the substance of the thinking of the majority as a whole. For Mr. Miller, the time is not for peace, but for war. If I understand you correctly, Mr. Miller, that's what you said. I asked you why you keep nuclear weapons in Belgium. You said, "Look at the international context today." I conclude that the context is not ripe to remove nuclear weapons from Belgian soil.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u129	I'm not going to argue for long. I'm just going to tell Mr. Van Hees didn't understand me. I can't blame you. We have different views. I confirm that you didn't understand me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u130	I note that Mr. Miller does not want to go further in the argument. I understand that. In relation to the resolution of the Flemish Parliament, I have read both texts and I see a clear difference between the two resolutions. The federal resolution says that multilateral negotiations are needed that will lead to disarmament in the world. As a result, since Belgium is in the world, there will necessarily be no nuclear weapons in Kleine-Brogel at the end of this process. The presence of nuclear weapons in Belgium is dependent on disarmament throughout the world. What I read in the resolution of the Flemish Parliament is very different. It directly calls for the removal of Kleine-Brogel's nuclear weapons. I will ask the Flemish elected representatives of the majority of the Open Vld, the N-VA and the CD&V if they would like to take their briefcase, get up, get out of Parliament and go to the Flemish Parliament to ask their colleagues in the Flemish Parliament to come and replace them, since those who make clearer resolutions in federal matters sit in a regional parliament. In my view, it would therefore be more effective for the Flemish parliamentarians to replace their federal colleagues since, apparently, their resolution is even clearer. Or this resolution is more hypocritical and indicates in small letters, in its general terms, that it will depend on the evolution of the position of NATO or Europe. As I have already said, the problem is linked to NATO membership. We can see that countries such as Austria and Switzerland are much more active than our country in the fight against nuclear weapons. Their non-membership of NATO gives them the frank cubits to adopt a much more offensive position in terms of disarmament. Finally, the issue of F-16 disarmament is obviously quite significant. The replacement of these aircraft is currently under discussion. The Minister of Defence has stated that no choices have yet been made in this area, but we can feel the direction in which the movement is moving. In itself, the replacement of these aircraft may be opposed, as is the case with the PTB. In any case, the choice of the F-35, even if it is not officially announced, is clearly linked to the use of nuclear weapons on these aircraft. It cannot be stated clearly that the proliferation of nuclear weapons is opposed and that a plane specifically designed to carry such weapons is to be adopted. I'll make it up to you. We have introduced an amendment that is not intended to wait for multilateral negotiations around the world so that, in 120 years' time, Mr Miller's great-grandson can witness the beginning of the withdrawal of nuclear weapons in Belgium. The amendment also does not call for bilateral negotiations with the United States to withdraw its nuclear weapons; it simply calls on Belgium to sweep out its door and withdraw the nuclear weapons in Kleine-Brogel. In other words, it is an amendment that calls on Belgium to comply with Article 2 of the Non-Proliferation Treaty which it has signed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u131	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this issue of nuclear weapons has four dimensions: a political dimension, a humanitarian dimension, a budgetary dimension and a security dimension. The first, the political dimension, is that what guided the presence of nuclear weapons around the world – and therefore here in Belgium – was the Cold War. That moment is over, the Berlin Wall has fallen. Today we are in another momentum, that of an agreement soon to be signed, hopefully, between the European Union and the United States for the disarmament of Iran. There have been two wars in Iraq, there will probably be no war with Iran. We hope so with all our strength. Iran's momentum shows that soft power, that diplomacy, that politics can work to achieve a goal of disarmament and peace. And politics is more effective when we say what we're doing, like in Iran, and we're doing what we're saying, as we should do here in Belgium, disarming ourselves, deciding to get rid of those atomic bombs in Kleine-Brogel. That is the meaning of Amendment No 20 that Mr. De Vriendt and I have tabled, which follows the terms of our bill calling for an end to the stockpiling, handling and transport of nuclear weapons in our territory. The second dimension that this issue raises is humanitarian. The nuclear bomb is a weapon of mass destruction that aims only to kill civilians. The effects of its use are devastating, whether in the case of the use of the bomb or in the case of a simple accident. There were three conferences on the humanitarian impact of nuclear weapons: Oslo, in 2013, Nayarit, Mexico, and Vienna, in 2014. Belgium was represented only by an ambassador and not by a minister. This resolution lacks an objective by supporting the humanitarian consequences, for example by proposing that the Minister of Foreign Affairs participate in future conferences on the humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons. The other countries, particularly those with nuclear weapons, consider this conference to be a distraction. Belgium must remind them of the opposite. Conferences on humanitarian consequences should have the same weight as conferences on nuclear disarmament. The third issue raised by this debate is the budget. Yesterday we had an interesting debate on the replacement of the F-16s. This debate showed that the choice of whether or not to retain nuclear weapons in Belgium had consequences for the choice of the possible replacement of the F-16. To be able to carry the American B61 bombs, modernized or not, is to make the purchase of the F-35 or the F-18 ideal. Even if it is possible today to equip the five bomber fighters who are candidates for the replacement of the F-16 nuclear weapon, this will always have an additional budgetary impact, because it is costly to equip themselves with this nuclear arsenal in all cases. The fourth dimension of this debate is safe. We discussed at length before Easter the future of the army and the strategic choices Belgium had to make for its army. Today, indisputably, terrorism has become the main fight on which we must focus and focus our forces. Today, nuclear bombs do not respond to this terrorist issue. Absolutely not, on the contrary! Colleagues, remember: in 2001, Nizar Trabelsi planned an attack on the Kleine-Brogel air base. He wasn't attacking Kleine-Brogel because there were fighter planes. Nizar Trabelsi was targeting Kleine-Brogel because at this precise location these famous fighter planes, the F-16s, could carry American B61s. The presence of nuclear weapons in Belgium, far from protecting us from the dangers of this century, makes us vulnerable and potentially attackable by these fascists of modern times, terrorists. It is high time to move into the twenty-first century and respond to the challenges of this century by removing nuclear weapons from our territory. That is why we will vote against this false denuclearisation of Belgian territory. We will therefore vote against this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u132	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u133	....................................................................................... Dirk Van der
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u134	Dirk Van der Maelen (901/10) Item/Punt 2/1 (n) same name as the name of the owner of the company. Item/Punt 2/2 (n) "19 Dirk Van der Maelen" (901/10) Item/Punt 5 (901/12) Item/Punt 5/1 (n) (901/12) Marco Van Hees cs (901/12) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u135	The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u136	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u137	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u138	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u139	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (977/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (9771) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u140	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u141	I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these three draft laws. I propose that you devote one discussion to these three bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u142	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u143	Mr President, I thought I was speaking both as rapporteur and as representative of the MR, but, given the length of the previous debate, I would like to refer to the written report which is quite valid and corresponds to what has been said. However, if I may, I will speak on behalf of the MR later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u144	Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of my group and not discussing the fact that we have a joint debate on the three texts, which I believe is not disputed by anyone. The bills on the agenda today are extremely important, both diplomatically and politically and symbolically. Indeed, these draft laws aim to ratify the Association Agreements between the European Union, Georgia, Moldova and, of course, Ukraine. As we know, the stated objective is to strengthen the links between these countries and the European Union by establishing and structuring close and lasting relations. This is important, and it is, of course, tragically illustrated by the events that took place during the demonstrations, the clashes and the deaths during the Maidan events in Ukraine and the internal political tensions that were quickly replaced by regional geopolitical tensions and, above all, by violations of international law, which ultimately led to European sanctions and the more recent Minsk ceasefire. That is undeniable; this revolution is due to the desire of a large part of the Ukrainian population to move closer to the European Union by signing such an association agreement, despite Russian intimidation. These aspirations have been and are still European, but they are also those of a will of something else in the face of corruption, authoritarian drifts and liberticide laws. We must never forget it. I would also like to remind you that these three countries, together with Azerbaijan, have been in terrible situations of frozen conflicts for several years now. In fact, I think these texts would have deserved a more appropriate parliamentary place and temporality, since some pieces were missing. Unfortunately, only one debate on this subject took place in committee. At the diplomatic level, the PS Group has always been in favour of an integrated approach by the European Union to its eastern neighbourhood. An integrated policy should not be seen as a provocation to Russia, but as a necessary rapprochement, but rather as a good relationship with Russia. Neither these three countries nor the European Union should have to choose one or the other. Russia is an inevitable partner economically and on a wide range of diplomatic and energy issues. However, on the pretext of good relations with Russia, the European Union cannot fail to maintain privileged relations with its eastern neighbourhood, of which these countries are part. And for good reason: it is the door to Europe. Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia are neighbouring states whose geopolitical importance is no longer to be demonstrated and whose part of the population aspires to join the European Union in the long run. To say the opposite would simply deny geography, since these countries are located at the borders of the European Union, to such an extent that their stability is a key issue for the entire European continent. All these countries must be able to make their own political choices. We cannot tolerate any violation of international law and the territorial integrity of these countries, as is the case in Crimea. But it is also true in Transnistria, Abkhazia and Nagorno-Karabagh. Against Russia, however, the aim for the PS is to maintain dialogue, towards de-escalation, without falling into naivety. Any sanction is important and must serve the purpose of de-escalation. Tomorrow we will have to work with the Russians again: this is inevitable. It is therefore a matter of adopting proportionate, reversible and truly effective sanctions against Russia, while taking into account their consequences for our economy. At the same time as this diplomacy of firmness towards Russia, I am also not in favour of prejudging that everything that would come from the three countries concerned is good. In the case of Ukraine, if my group is in favour of measures to support that country, this aid must of course take place on condition that Ukraine complies with several requirements in terms of human rights and the fight against corruption, but also – and it is important to stress this – that Russian-speaking minorities are also respected in Donbass and elsewhere in Ukraine. The latter must undertake important reforms: the fight against corruption, socio-economic development, employment and political developments. This aid must of course be directed at the civilian populations, all the populations, including those caught in the Donbass range I mentioned earlier, between the pro-Europeans and the pro-Russians. On these points, I agree with the position taken by the minister. It is the implementation of the Minsk Agreements, which represent the only political path towards a lasting solution. We therefore urge that these be fully respected by all parties. Similarly, our country must continue to advocate for a lasting political solution in Georgia and Moldova. These frozen conflicts have lasted too long. The question of human rights must also be placed at the heart of Belgian action. I believe that the Council of Europe must act as an essential forum by making full use of the Belgian Presidency of the Committee of Ministers. It is in this sense that I understand, diplomatically and symbolically, the importance of having quickly put these projects before our Assembly before the Eastern Partnership Summit in Riga on 21 and 22 May, in order to give a positive signal to the three countries concerned. If my group agrees, of course, with this objective, it cannot be used as an excuse for the legislative approximation of the three texts, which are widely stressed by the opinion of the Council of State, and for the many political and economic issues they raise. Ladies and gentlemen, let us acknowledge that in committee we did not get many specific answers to these questions. Yes, on form, negotiations were initiated in 2007 with Ukraine and 2010 with Moldova and Georgia. Yes, the previous governments have already agreed. And, yes, these three agreements have been ratified by the European Parliament by a very large majority. Nevertheless, it is up to the current government to take account of the new context and to ensure that this agreement is transposed into Belgian law. It is also responsible for answering questions as crucial as the movement of persons or services, for example, and for consulting with federated entities where necessary. According to the opinion of the Council of State, "the necessary measures shall be taken and the necessary adaptations shall be made to the rules in the Belgian legal order, in principle at the latest at the time of the international entry into force of the provisions of the Agreement (...)". In addition to this, there are still many issues in the free trade area. What about the almost complete assimilation of the treatment enjoyed by EU nationals with regard to the right of establishment and the right to provide services? Should the competent authorities remove barriers to trade that are incompatible with the agreement by actively making the necessary regulatory adjustments according to the Council of State? What about the rules on admission and residence in the territory and on specific access to the labour market contained in the Agreement for specific categories of persons who are directly related to the establishment or provision of services? Was it necessary to go through a free trade area? Would not a purely diplomatic association agreement have sufficed? Why did you include the service market? The opinion of the Council of State states that various commitments to good administration, in particular with a view to promoting transparency in the decisions of the authority and the proper development of regulations, are made in the agreement. However, some of these measures are not yet known or incorporated into the Belgian legal order. What about it? The opinion also states that the agreement implies that Belgium is already a party to the multilateral basic treaties on various matters covered by the agreement. However, this is not always the case. By giving its consent to the agreement, Belgium undertakes to take the necessary steps towards the ratification of a number of treaties. What about it? Is there a risk of social and tax dumping in this Treaty? What are the safeguards, particularly in view of the debate on social and environmental standards which is already very strong in the European Member States today? Is it not feared that the mobility of workers and the easing of the visa procedure will create a social dumping effect, particularly in the transport sector? Do these agreements have military and geostrategic aspects? These agreements also deal with the field of energy. The problem of nuclear power plants in Ukraine is well known. Most European nuclear power plants are in Ukraine and some of them are completely obsolete and the only equipment that can replace defective parts is Soviet, incompatible with European equipment. It's dangerous! What about it? Colleagues, to all these questions, my colleague Gwenaëlle Grovonius and I have only got a few answers. The Minister said that in the framework thus created, it would be up to them to check their progress before moving on to the next stage. The signing and ratification of an association agreement does not mean that all the measures envisaged therein will be implemented at the same rate. We can understand, but many questions remain. I will conclude by saying that the key question today is whether the European Union and its Member States really want to provide the support requested by these three countries. My group's answer is a big yes, without any ambiguity. But no matter how, not at the coin, so important are the socio-economic, diplomatic, energy and security issues, and even military issues. For the sake of consistency and for all these reasons, which concern the form and not the advisability of this text, my group will abstain on these three drafts, as it did in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u145	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank my colleagues in the Committee on Foreign Affairs who have appointed me as rapporteur for these three important treaties. I told you that I trusted the report as drafted. However, I would like to stress the political importance of giving our consent to these treaties before the Riga Summit on the Eastern Partnership, where our Prime Minister Charles Michel will visit on 21 and 22 May. Our Assembly, in my view, is very important and will therefore send a triple message of confidence: trust in our Prime Minister's approach, in the Union's renewed approach to its neighbours and confidence in the will to succeed in their reforms. I would point out that we have a motion for a resolution on this subject that we must adopt before this 22 May deadline, in order to support the Prime Minister's approach to this Eastern Partnership. I count on our Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to ensure that the debate and its conclusion in committee can take place before the Eastern Partnership Summit in late May. Moreover, the written report is very comprehensive. I am referring to this in my capacity as rapporteur. I would particularly like to speak on behalf of the MR. First of all, I would like to remind you of the extremely important decor. We are in agreements with three former republics of the former USSR. You will remember the somewhat rumbling exit at the time of the work of Hélène Carrère d'Encausse, The Exhaled Empire, followed by another, The Big Brother. The broken Empire, we are today the holders, if I may say so. Indeed, the Tsar Russia and then the Soviet Union took a clever pleasure in dividing or creating tensions within the various countries that are now independent. Ukraine's example is sufficiently clear in this regard. Indeed, although being, in a way, the cradle of Russia – in the Middle Ages, the Rous was already Ukraine – the elements for russifying this country are still present. This explains the current situation. What happened in Crimea is happening today in eastern Ukraine. On the other hand, the same is true for Georgia and Moldova. It should be noted that Georgia was an independent country until the end of the 18th century. Because the Georgian Orthodox Church was threatened, the Georgians asked for protection from Moscow, which did not just grant it a simple protection since the Kingdom of Georgia was included in the Tsar Empire at the beginning of the 19th century. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u146	There have indeed been territorial changes. In this context, it should also be recalled that Georgia has been the subject of a series of influences, which explains why, still today, the Democratic Republic of Georgia is not fully recognized at the international level. In fact, two territories, South Ossetia and Abkhazia, were the subject of a war between Russia and Georgia in 2008. President François Hollande recently recalled on his trip to Georgia that, for France and for Europe, these two former autonomous republics were part of Georgia. But in fact, they have been under Russian control since at least 2003. As far as Moldova is concerned, the situation is quite similar, of course. Why? Because Moldova, as you know, is a territory formerly controlled by the Ottoman Empire, which was finally attached to Russia in the early 19th century. I would remind you that Moldova is a Romanian-speaking territory. But here too, a certain degree of russification has taken place and remains today, since, although only 8% of the population are Russians of origin, about a quarter of the population speaks first and foremost Russian. It is therefore in a particularly difficult context that we are proposed to ratify these Association Treaties. This has been said by some in the Committee on External Relations, we could indeed say you nemen of te laten. Yes, it is true that all the work has already been done in the Council of European Ministers, in the European Commission and in the European Parliament, where these three Treaties have been approved by more than 80% of the votes cast and by most of the political groups that are here, since we do not, fortunately, have too many anti-Europeans in this House. It is true that the Council of State made remarks. You mentioned it yourself. You have made remarks and other political groups too. But today we are in a trend of European unification. I would like to remind you that we have the opportunity to intervene at the grass-roots level. When there are documents which must then be finally approved by the Belgian Parliament, we can sound the alarm or press the red light. The Swedish Parliament does so regularly when a draft text is originally submitted to it. It must be noted that in our assembly, as in other countries, it is rare for problems to be taken at the bottom. However, in the House, we have an organ that makes it possible to know all the texts as they are from the point of departure and to pull the alarm bell. We have a specific deadline since the last European treaties. That is what is called co-decision and which means that we can, long before that, start making all the comments. Today, let us be clear, we can no longer do so except that it allows, thanks to this ratification, to reconscientise beyond us the entire Belgian population on the importance of relations with these countries. Ladies and gentlemen, I plead that in future, when there are such important texts, we should be able to intervene at the source, at the base, and eventually, if it is bought, to sound the alarm. Yes, Mr. Blanchart?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u147	Thank you, Mr. President Flahaux.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u148	I already thought I was Flahaut.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u149	It's the name that does it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u150	A name like that doesn't fade from the memory of Parliament. Jean-Jacques, I would like to say that I obviously very much appreciate your historical approach. The debates in committee have certainly been interesting and, of course, we are in a hurry and held by the agenda. But, as I had already said in committee, I believe that at some point the majority wants to pass quickly and forcefully. In that case, there was no real problem on the merits. But let us acknowledge this: one week of additional time, one more committee meeting so that we can have the documents, it would not have been superfluous, given the legal and substantive issues related to this issue, in particular the nuclear security issues that I mentioned at the time. We were talking about nuclear power in the previous debate. Europe is being disarmed, but it is important to know that in territories on Europe's borders, several countries have power plants with real dangers. I won't mention them here. But it must be recognised that an additional committee meeting on this subject would not have been superfluous. I think we could have been on the agenda for May 21.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u151	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u152	Mr Blanchart and Mrs Onkelinx know that I like the debate. The more we debate, the better I like it. But I am not the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, who is trying to keep things up. [[Brouhahaha]] It's not a charge, Mr. President. I just want to say that documents have been on the Internet for a year; they have been in the library of our parliament for months. It is true that we all have a lot to look at. Perhaps we should have taken a closer look at this before we even received the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u153	I can't let that go. Mr Flahaux inaugurates a new way of operating our committees and parliament. The documents you don't receive in committee, go find them on the internet, you'll find them. It's a new way of working. On such a serious subject, I agree with my colleague Mr Blanchart: not only should we have actually had documents, and we did not have them, but also a series of remarks deserved a more in-depth debate. I think the minister's briefing lasted five minutes. It would have been a good idea for him to respond point by point to the arguments of the Council of State so that we could have a real debate. The chairman of the committee, I would remind you, has asked for this debate to take place. It wasn't about extending. I am pleased with these agreements, but they are very important politically. It was the Minister for Foreign Affairs who, very strongly, called for the vote to take place immediately. I really regret it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u154	I would like to point out that, if the introductory report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs was brief, it was because we absolutely had to adopt this text as soon as possible. What a negative political sign we would have given...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u155	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u156	I do not feel concerned about your remark and your request. I just take it as a way to titillate myself, but it's a good try! In the particularly difficult context of these three States, the request is a follow-up to the partnership initiated in 2006 at the initiative of Sweden and Poland. We started with six states. Unfortunately, only three are at the finish. We almost had only two. As a first step, Ukraine had simply refused to approve these association agreements. This is an important political aspect that we are going to adopt. Of course, we do not decide on the modalities, as we cannot amend the text, since it has already been adopted at European level and in more than ten countries of the European Union. It is essential to do so, especially in this serious period, both vis-à-vis these States and with international public opinion as well as with Russia. These reports, which are particularly voluminous, are very ambitious. They include a political and trade component aimed at almost full liberalisation of trade between the European Union and these three countries, as well as a so-called cooperation component, the aim of which is the resumption by Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova of the Community's normative acquis in a large number of areas. Here we touch on the border between cooperation and integration, while remaining, fully and only, officially in cooperation. The Eastern Partnership States, as I speak to you, are not intended to become members of the European Union, but to develop maximum synergies with the Union. This is a sensitive point, and you know that several Member States want to go further. This is the case for Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova. In the long term, these countries would like to join the European Union. The statement of the Deputy Prime Minister of Moldova is clear from this point of view. It even evokes a date of Moldova's entry into the European Union in 2019. This is rather paradoxical because, at the moment I am talking to you, no official application has been submitted by Moldova to join the European Union. The MR Group therefore considers that this is not a first step towards an enlargement agreement. We know how the previous enlargements are still being absorbed, if I may say so. Furthermore, as Mrs Onkelinx says, the situation is delicate because, beyond these former republics of the USSR, it also has consequences for our relations with Russia. In this context, it is within the framework of this 2009 Eastern Partnership that the Partnership and Cooperation Agreements signed in 1994 were replaced by these Association Agreements which greatly deepen the cooperation between the European Union and these three countries. This type of agreement includes, first of all, a political component. It provides for the development of dialogues on domestic reforms. This is important because many of these countries, whose names I will not mention, have major corruption problems. It is essential that we can help them to change the structure of their internal functioning. This is part of the political dimension. It is also within this strand that the Union will be able to instil the need and the will for reform with incentives and financial and human support. We know that the Ukrainian government must introduce modernisations into its political, administrative and economic system and that it is seeking help from Europeans through, among other things, the dispatch of specialists. This is the legal framework for this cooperation. This political aspect, ladies and gentlemen, has undoubtedly been underestimated leading to the collapse of the Vilnius Summit in 2013. These relations between the Union and its neighbours require – given Russia's political, economic and military weight, which is still somewhere behind these negotiations – what I will call a political "guidage". I am convinced that a less technocratic analysis and implementation of these agreements and this partnership would probably have helped to avoid tensions with Moscow and the bloodshed we are experiencing at the moment, from which we are far from being left. For example, in one year, the Ukrainian currency lost 70 per cent of its value against the dollar. Public debt has doubled. The war would cost the country some ten million dollars a day. It is therefore necessary to give political guidance to these relations. The second part deals with the comprehensive and in-depth free trade agreement. These two words are very important. It is the hard core of the agreement that you are called upon to ratify. This is a complete liberalisation of trade through the abolition of customs duties on almost all tariff lines for each of the parties and non-tariff measures aimed at facilitating market access such as transparency of public procurement – I have just mentioned the corruption that is an important point – the harmonisation of customs procedures, the liberalisation of services. As a result, the third strand is aimed at adopting a large part of the regulation, the EU standards applicable in 27 areas ranging from energy to agriculture and transport, from industrial policy to SME policy and the environment, consumer protection, culture and education. The last two strands should speed up economic rapprochement with the European Union. It is important to know that for each of these three countries, we are already the first trading partner, before Russia. Fostering the economic development of its neighbourhood means fostering the stability of these countries and opening up new opportunities for our investments and exports. But this economic and normative rapprochement with the European Union must not be at the expense of Russia's economic interests. Once again, we see all the disastrous consequences currently in Ukraine. The European Union has wisely agreed to postpone the entry into force of the free trade part of the Agreement until 1 January 2016. With this in mind, it is conducting trilateral consultations with Ukraine and Russia with a view to identifying the problems that the agreement poses to the latter and trying to remedy them. It's up to Russia to play the game honestly now! Mr President, I understand the frustration of each other with regard to the ratification of these three treaties. As parliamentarians, we must approve them without changing a comma and without being able to open a broader, more political debate on the meaning to be given to the Eastern Partnership. This issue was also discussed at the meeting of European Foreign Ministers on Monday, in which our Foreign Minister participated. I therefore give an appointment to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, to the members of the Committee on External Relations and to our Assembly in the coming days so that we can discuss more freely the guidelines to be given to this policy on the basis of our resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u157	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be very brief. I will try to sum up the long speech I made in committee in three minutes. My group will vote against the three association agreements. We have three reasons for this. The first reason has just been touched. My fellow Members, a Parliament must be able to agree, across the borders of majority and opposition, that the work in committees is done in a proper and thorough manner. I regret that this has not happened in this regard. You have put the whip to it, Minister, and you have demanded that the drafts be voted on at one committee meeting. I would add that, when we voted on the association agreement with Ukraine, the text of the treaty on the website of the Chamber was not available. I would like to call on the majority of my fellow Members to agree to ensure that the work in committee is done properly, so that my fellow Members will at least have the opportunity to read the texts they approve in advance. In this case, it was about a treaty. I am aware that not everyone will read a treaty of 2 500 pages. The second reason why we are voting against is the series of fundamental comments made by the Council of State. I am sorry to note that, after reading the report, you did not reply, Minister. However, they were not comments of a minor nature. These treaties are a new kind of European treaties, which are referred to in the jargon deep and comprehensive foreign trade agreements. Deep and comprehensive means that the treaties are very broad, but also very deep intervention in national regulations. For example, the Council of State pointed out that, by adopting this convention in Belgium, we will be obliged to adapt our own legislation on the right of establishment of an economic activity, the right to be economically active without a permanent establishment in Belgium, access to and residence in the territory, access to the labour market, transparency of government decisions and their proper implementation. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are not dealing here with minor matters. Anyone who is familiar with such agreements knows that this is very similar to the accession of Bulgaria and Romania, which meant that we had free movement of persons, social dumping and so on. Now it's about the same thing. When we asked the Minister what specific point we should amend Belgian legislation, there was no answer. The Council of State has also made comments. These deep and comprehensive foreign trade agreements provide for the establishment of certain bodies, including large companies. These bodies are considering new rules which must be respected by the various countries. In its opinion, the Council of State raises two possible problems. A first problem is that of N-VA's fellow MEPs, who are not sure that the internal division of powers will be respected. I know you have a very strong digestive system. You've already been able to digest a community blackout. So maybe we can add this to our list. However, it is good to mention that the Council of State states that it is not certain that the internal division of competence in Belgium will be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u158	Mr van der Maelen, you are proclaiming a number of novelties on constitutional law, so I am particularly interested in that. Could you explain to me how a treaty could change the internal division of competence in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u159	Mr Vuye, I did not say "change." I said that we do not have the guarantee that the division of powers existing in Belgium will be respected if the bodies provided for in the Treaty exercise the powers conferred on them by that Treaty.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u160	How could a treaty actually ensure that the internal division of powers should not be respected?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u161	The question is reversed. The Belgian ministers who negotiated this should have indicated this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u162	In my view, the Treaties cannot change the internal division of powers. It is clear that the internal division of powers is respected. A treaty does not affect that at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u163	I must now go into detail and will do so, although I was senseless to stay on the surface. Mr President, perhaps you have not been able to read it in this association agreement either, because at the time it was discussed in committee, the document was not available and provision is made for the creation of bodies in which representatives of the Member States with the opinion of large companies will look at new regulations relating to permanent establishments and the like. That is where the decisions are taken and the treaty stipulates that those decisions must be respected by Belgium and also by Flanders, without guaranteeing that, if it is a Flemish or Community authority, someone at that political level will be involved in the internal decision-making in that body. If you don't have a problem with that... it's your problem first, not mine. You have always said that you attach great importance to the internal division of powers and that they must be respected. Now I see that the Council of State is not sure that the internal division of powers will always be respected. On the next point, as a Member of this House, I am a little heavier. The Council of State warns that it is anti-constitutional that the government gives the right to decisions relating to establishment, social legislation, etc. away from the body described. According to the Council of State, the government must therefore add an article to its draft law, whereby Parliament gives power to its and its representatives in those bodies to do so. The Council of State adds that it would show some descension should the government, in obtaining that power, have an obligation to inform the Chamber of the fact that certain decisions have been taken in those bodies. I note that the Minister did say that he would inform us about this, but did not want to include it in the law. For these three reasons, namely, firstly, the violence that has been committed in parliamentary procedures, secondly, the fact that it is very far-reaching, without the Minister's intention to say anything, in a number of social matters, and thirdly, that if those bodies take decisions which normally have to be taken by the legislator according to the Constitution, they do not even provide for the minimum minimum amount of information to be given to the Chamber, for these reasons the sp.a group will vote against the three association agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u164	Mr President, I would like to stress the importance of these agreements. These are countries that are close to us. They are also countries that have sometimes paid heavily, in blood, their will to move closer to the European Union and to establish close ties with the countries of the European Union. In the history of the association agreements we have with third countries, I think this is the first time that, because we want an association agreement, another country is waging war on that country and deciding to invade part of its territory. This is a tragic precedent, but it also shows Ukraine's, Moldova's and Georgia's compelling desire to establish even closer ties with us than in the past. I therefore believe that this courage must be welcomed, that we must move forward with these countries, that we must be able to strengthen these exchanges both economically and commercially – other colleagues have stressed the importance of these association agreements in this respect – to talk about security, talk about freedom, governance, corruption, talk about human rights. Through these association treaties, we will have an instrument that will allow us to move forward in these areas. You are right, Mr Blanchart, these issues are also important and we believe that they will be better dealt with through these devices. These are therefore important treaties, the Riga summit will be decisive for the future stability of the European continent. I simply regret that, for reasons that do not belong to the European Union, these countries are seriously destabilised by Russia. I believe that Russia should be able to play a more constructive and positive role in the future, in this part of the world, as in other parts of the world. I also regret that, for the time being, other countries are not participating in this Eastern Partnership; indeed, it is essential that on the margins of Europe we can establish close contacts and that we can talk more and better about security, governance, human rights and strengthen our trade relations with these countries. My group will support the ratification of these agreements. I will not go back to the fact that we would have preferred to deepen the discussion, given the importance of the issue, given the human cost to these countries of ratifying these treaties. But I think the most important thing was actually to move forward, to show a signal and to be ready for the Riga summit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u165	Mr President, this is indeed an association agreement which is a first step, and the very first step, in this new neighbourhood policy of the European Union in the East. It is not a free trade treaty as such. It is a genuine association agreement which concerns and contains various provisions, one on respect for human rights, the other on financial aid, which Ukraine needs particularly, given the crisis it is going through and the considerations of free trade. This association agreement is signed and ratified in a particularly tense geostrategic context. This is the Russian invasion of Crimea; the cold war, if not the lukewar, led by Russia to the East in Donbass and, as a result, the European Union embargo on Russian products, within the framework of the Minsk agreement which is to be enforced between the various European powers and Russia (...) Ukraine and, of course, the energy issue dear to us, namely Ukraine's extreme dependence on Russian gas and Gazprom in particular. This agreement that we will ratify was the focal point of the revolution in Maidan Square, two and a half years ago in Kiev. It addresses this geostrategic issue today. It allows the eventual emergence of a Ukraine that will bridge the gap between the European Union and Russia and a democratic Ukraine, which it is not today, a Ukraine, whose territorial integrity is guaranteed. It is an agreement that allows for the eventual support of Ukrainian citizens who are committed to human rights, which are the fundamental values of the European Union. This is not about the accession of Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova to the European Union. This is an agreement that allows the development of the rule of law in these countries. That is why the entire democratic parties present here voted in favour of this agreement in the European Parliament. That is why my group will vote in favour of it. We have reservations about the existence of free trade clauses in this agreement. This Treaty, like all the dimensions of the European Treaties, raises the question of social and tax dumping. It potentially creates the conditions for this dumping, like all European treaties. My party, in the European Parliament, is fighting these provisions every day. The social and environmental dumping and deregulation that Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia will face in implementing these agreements will create a problem for these countries. In other words, the European Union will have to intervene at the level of these countries by using the Cohesion Fund, which is now poorly funded. As I said in committee, Germany and France are currently playing a leading political and media role in resolving the conflict in Ukraine. The Belgian Government must remind the aforementioned countries that Germany and France do not participate at the right level in the Cohesion Fund, which is necessary for the Ukrainian, Moldovan and Georgian economies to reach the same level as the European Union. Two members of my group, Mrs Gerkens and Mr M. De Vriendt will therefore abstain from opposing these free trade provisions, which, I would remind you, are unfortunately present in all the provisions of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u166	Mr President, our group will vote against the motion for a resolution before us today, particularly for socio-economic reasons. Indeed, it seems to us that the agreements in question will in no way help the economic development of the three countries concerned. Undoubtedly, we are faced with an ultra-liberal European Union whose aim is to continue to liberalise the internal markets of these countries. Moreover, the PTB is not the only one to say so. An economist drew a parallel between the various economic development measures proposed in these agreements and those proposed to Greece. But we can see where that led to this country. So they won't bring much. I would also like to recall the control of European multinationals over land in Western Ukraine with the massive acquisition of land. It is therefore within the framework of agreements which are not entirely favourable to the economic development of these countries. We cannot therefore, from an economic point of view, follow the logic of the liberal European Union in the framework of this type of agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u167	Mr. Hedebouw, you're talking about land purchases by multinationals. It's a fact. Land grabbing by multinationals is a fact in Europe, Latin America. This is the work of all multinationals, whether they are European or American. But the Russian government's current land grabbing east of Ukraine calls for a response from the European Union and that is the answer. It's imperfect, but it's an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u168	I think Mr Hellings' speech demonstrates the very different view that we have on this kind of question on the left. I fully agree with you. I'm not here to protect Russian multinationals. I am asked to comment on the intentions of the European multinationals in the region, who use European legislation and the European state apparatus in order to be able to impose themselves there. I regret that the environmental movement is not part of this criticism of the liberal European Union. If you are consistent, then vote against this type of agreement. On the day you are asked to vote in the Russian Parliament for certain measures, go too. Here, in this case, I do not believe that the liberal European Union can be used to counter other regional powers. If we get into that logic... This is a logic that the green movement did not have in the 1980s, it was your strength at that time. You were not in this logic because you were aware that the interests of multinationals, European national blocs were there for their own business. Today, we will vote against it. I understand that you are panaching your vote, but we have a different view of the types of relations between Europe and other sub-regional powers. That's for socio-economics. At the geopolitical level, my group believes that such agreements will in no way solve the situation on the ground. I want to subscribe, for example, to the vision of Professor David Criekemans of the University of Antwerp. He points out that today, at all costs, wanting Ukraine to choose between Europe and Russia will lead to war, because we are going towards the complete partition of the country. Today, it is precisely time to arrive at a multilateral solution so as not to fall into this logic of extending European economic and political relations and NATO. This is what is happening in all the countries of the former Soviet bloc, and it will lead us to war. We are playing with fire and in five years we will wonder how it is possible that we have not seen how much we were playing with fire. For these reasons and to give a chance to the Minsk II agreements, we believe that this type of agreement at European level will not at all help to resolve the situation diplomatically, but rather put oil on fire. It is in this context that we are part of the vote in the European Parliament by most of the GUE parties. We will therefore vote against this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u169	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u170	We shall begin the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 979. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (979/1) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill 979. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (979/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u171	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 980. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (980/1) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 980. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (980/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u172	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 981. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (981/1) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill 981. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (981/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u173	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u174	The Federal Deontological Commission consists of six Dutch-speaking and six French-speaking members, each with one magistrate (or professor), three former members of the Chamber and/or Senate and two former mandaters. A maximum of two thirds of the members may be of the same sex. The Federal Ethics Commission consists of six French-speaking members and six Dutch-speaking members, including for each linguistic role, one magistrate (or professor), three former members of the House and/or the Senate and two former representatives. A maximum of two thirds of the members shall be of the same sex. Since the calls for candidates for the mandate of a member of the Federal Deontological Commission, published in the Belgian Official Journal of 23 July 2014, 17 October 2014, 28 November 2014 and 21 January 2015, did not provide sufficient candidates for the category "ex-mandates', a new call for candidates for this category was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 5 March 2015 in accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 26 February 2015. Since the appeals to candidates for the terms of office of a member of the Federal Ethics Commission, published in the Belgian Monitor of 23 July 2014, 17 October 2014, 28 November 2014 and 21 January 2015, resulted in too few applications for the category "former representatives", a new appeal to candidates for this category was published in the Belgian Monitor of 5 March 2015, in accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 26 February 2015. The applications were to be submitted by 4 April 2015. Applications were to be submitted no later than 4 April 2015. An application was submitted within the prescribed time limit. This means that there are still too few candidates "ex-mandates." An application was submitted within the prescribed time limit, which means that there are still not enough "former representatives" candidates. In addition, there are too few female candidates since Article 8 (4) of the Act of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Deontological Commission provides that up to two thirds of the members of the Commission may be of the same sex. Only two female applications were submitted for all categories. In addition, there are not enough female candidates since Article 8, § 4 of the Act of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Commission on Ethics stipulates that two thirds of the members of the Commission are of the same sex. Only two female candidates were submitted for all categories. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 April 2015, a sixth call for candidates for all categories will be published in the Belgian Official Journal. Applications shall be submitted no later than 30 days after publication of the call. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 April 2015, a sixth call for candidates for all categories will be published in the Belgian Monitor. Applications must be submitted no later than 30 days after the publication of the appeal. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u175	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I also propose that the bill (Meryame Kitrir and Karin Temmerman) apply the blockage of the flattened health index to rental prices, No. 1032/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u176	I also propose that you take into consideration the bill (Ms Meryame Kitir and Karin Temmerman) applying to rents the blockage of the smoothed health index, No. 1032/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u177	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u178	Mr President, we would like to ask the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 1032, with a view to introducing an index jump for rental prices. The majority approved the index jump for wages and benefits here yesterday. Perhaps after a day's sleep common sense has returned, especially with the colleagues from CD&V, and they agree to apply the index jump to rental prices. We are therefore asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 1032.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u179	We shall be voting in favour of the request for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u180	The Government requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law establishing a National Pension Committee, a Knowledge Centre and an Academic Council (No. 1022/1). The government called for urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill to establish a National Pension Committee, a Centre of Expertise and an Academic Council (No. 1022/1). I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u181	The Government also requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law amending the Law of 28 December 2011 laying down various provisions as regards certain staff of the Integrated Police (No. 1023/1). The government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the bill amending the Act of 28 December 2011 laying down various provisions, in respect of certain members of the integrated police personnel (No. 1023/1). I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u182	Mr. Chairman, why is the government asking for urgency? For all projects, we are now being asked for urgency! I have already denounced this situation. It is the least polite to tell us why the government is asking for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u183	Minister, I will give you the floor, although the urgency has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u184	I can agree with Mrs. Onkelinx's question. As you know, the police are currently facing the ruling of the Constitutional Court of 10 July 2014. We aim here to allow the police officers, who were under the conditions on that date, to leave the pension, to benefit from the conditions that existed before. A certain period of time has passed since then, because an agreement had to be reached. Other proposals were made by the previous government. Today we come with this proposal. This problem must be resolved as quickly as possible, in the interest of the relevant members of the police force.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u185	The vote on sitting and getting up has led to the adoption of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u186	Mr President, depending on the explanation, I have no problem with the urgency. But, normally, we start by justifying the urgency and then we ask for the vote!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u187	Mrs Onkelinx, we voted by sitting and lifted, the decision is taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u188	Mr President, when there are urgent requests, you must always ask for the reasons. In this way, this assembly can make an informed decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u189	We take note of your position. We've put the vote on sitting and getting up. The urgency has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u190	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture on 31 March 2015. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for Business, Science Policy, Education, the National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture of 31 March 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 032/1): a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Muriel Gerkens; A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Rita Gantois and Mr. Benoît Friart. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 032/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Muriel Gerkens; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Rita Gantois and Mr Benoît Friart. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u191	Mr President, I will be brief because we have been on these benches for a long time. The International Day was intended to encourage citizens to eat less meat because it is good for health. On the same day, Minister Borsus found it spiritual to turn her in derision by asking Belgian citizens to eat meat. What made me angry and justified this motion is the arguments put forward by a minister. He is a member of a government that, although I do not share all its options, far from it, defends on the other hand policies to combat strokes, heart accidents, obesity, etc. In all of Mr. Borsus's arguments were errors and lies. My motion asks him and the government to correct his remarks and to be consistent with policies in terms of health, climate, greenhouse gas emissions and imports and exports for the benefit of our farmers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u192	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u193	Yes 83 Yes No. [[46]] No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 138 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u194	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Public Health, Environment and Renewal Committee of the Society on March 31, 2015. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Health, the Environment and the Social Renewal of 31 March 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 028/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Alain Mathot; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Nathalie Muylle and Mrs Valerie Van Peel and by Messrs. Luc Gustin et Dirk Janssens. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 028/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Alain Mathot; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Nathalie Muylle and Mrs Valerie Van Peel and by Mr Luc Gustin and Mr Dirk Janssens. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u195	Mr President, after having had the history of Moldova, we are not going to repeat the history of social security! Since 1 January 2015, the government has decided to change the moderator ticket. This change was justified by simplification, a word that is used everywhere, because who could oppose simplification? The truth is, the government wanted to save money. And that the rate of 70% of consultations has increased. The policy of helping vulnerable people allows patients to be received free of charge in some hospitals through the ONE consultations. But the increase in the user ticket, after the reform of the intercommunals and the economic proposals made, will put hospitals even more in difficulty, even though they are already. During my inquiry to the minister, I was quite surprised to see that the only answer to this problem of helping the most fragile people, who wish only to bring their child to life, was that some gynaecologists may no longer be doing these free consultations. My request was that the government should be able to agree with the Communities in order to compensate financially for this loss, which is likely to occur at the level of the NEB, hospitals or doctors. I am very surprised that the only answer that the minister could give is that she was going to ask INAMI to check whether there was any illegality in the reimbursement of these consultations. This seems absolutely scandalous to me! Instead of trying to get an answer, they say we're going to check out while INAMI has already done its job in 2013. I simply ask that the government be able to compensate because, I would remind you, the people who will be directly affected are the most disadvantaged in our society. This is the second consequence of your increase in the moderator ticket.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u196	Mr President, what is particularly shocking in the attitude of the government is that it considers from the outset that the Office of Birth and Childhood is acting unlawfully. The government considers that some women should be excluded from health insurance on the grounds that the NPO provides psychosocial follow-up in addition to medical follow-up, in the context of hospital consultations. What is also surprising in the government's attitude is that it does not look at what the ONE allows as savings to the INAMI since the ONE provides the fee for district antenatal consultations for more than a thousand pregnant women. This corresponds to more than 8,000 medical examinations. Each year, this saves more than 100 000 euros at INAMI. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I think that you could, at the very least, before accusing the ONE of illegal practices, first and foremost inform you of their practices and of the system put in place to support pregnant women and, in particular, the most vulnerable. Unfortunately, from the outset, you have swept away all this quality field work from a back of your hand, adopting an attitude of ease and accusing the ONE of illegal practices. It's disgusting!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u197	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u198	Yes 82 Yes No. [[55]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u199	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Meryame Kitir cs. to Article 2. (987/2) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Meryame Kitir cs. in Article 2. (987/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 51 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u200	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[84]] Yes No. [[45]] No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (987/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (987/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u201	Mr President, I would like to justify the abstention of the cdH Group. This bill implements the agreement reached within the Group of Eight to introduce the maximum margin for the evolution of the wage cost, of course. It is indeed customary to follow the agreement of the social partners. That being said, I think that this text, which has been prodigiously managed in a completely different way than index jumping, shows that it was not necessary to make an index jump and that one could clearly work within the framework of wage moderation. In addition, this bill also shows how much you have respected the social consultation procedure and negotiated with them here, while as far as index jumping is concerned you have voluntarily boycotted the social partners. We can only link these two files. For this reason, despite the agreement of the Group of Eight, we abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u202	Vote on Amendment No 15 by Dirk Van der Maelen to insert a recital H (n). (901/10) Vote on Amendment No 15 by Dirk Van der Maelen to insert a recital H (n). (901/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 48 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u203	Mr President, I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u204	It's been noted. Vote on Amendment No 16 by Dirk Van der Maelen to insert a recital I (n). (901/10) Vote on Amendment No 16 by Dirk Van der Maelen to insert a recital I (n). (901/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[38]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 17 by Dirk Van der Maelen to insert a recital J (n). (901/10) Vote on Amendment No 17 by Dirk Van der Maelen to insert a recital J (n). (901/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 49 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 18 by Dirk Van der Maelen to insert a point 2/1 (n). (901/10) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Dirk Van der Maelen to insert a point 2/1 (n). (901/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes [[38]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 19 by Dirk Van der Maelen to insert a point 2/2 (n). (901/10) Vote on Amendment No 19 by Dirk Van der Maelen to insert a point 2/2 (n). (901/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 48 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 20 from Benoit Hellings cs at point 5. (901/12) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Benoit Hellings cs in point 5. (901/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[22]] Yes No. 92 No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 21 by Marco Van Hees cs to insert a point 5/1 (n). (901/12) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Marco Van Hees cs to insert a point 5/1 (n). (901/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes [[11]] Yes No. 97 No Abstentions 30 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u205	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 95 Yes No. [[40]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (901/13) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (901/13) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u206	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (977/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (977/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u207	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 101 Yes No. [[17]] No Abstentions 20 Abstensions Total 138 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (979/5) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (979/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u208	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 102 Yes No. [[17]] No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 138 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (980/6) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (980/6) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u209	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 102 Yes No. [[17]] No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 137 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (981/6) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (981/6) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-23-54-plenair-ip042x.u210	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 30 April 2015. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 30 April 2015. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 30 April 2015 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 30 April 2015, at 2.15 p.m.
