ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is best that we begin our sitting with the exchange of views with the Minister of Finance on the tax shift. Let us not have a procedural debate on it. I have had the opportunity to speak to some of them and I suggest that until 12:45 we speak only about the tax shift. There are 13 questions. I propose that in the first round the spokesmen of the political groups should speak according to the strength of the political groups. In that case one can incorporate his questions. Every spokesperson gets ten minutes for that. Then those who have tabled a question and have not yet spoken may put their question. They get three minutes each for that. After that, speakers from political groups who have not tabled a question can join for five minutes. Then there is the Minister's answer, after which everyone can replicate. I think that is the only workable organisation of the work, in which everyone can speak. Otherwise, we may end up in procedural debates. I would suggest that there should be only one spokesperson per recognised group and that anyone who has put a question should also be able to ask them. Let me give you a concrete example. Mr Gilkinet, as spokesman for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, would have ten minutes to put his question and be the fourth to discuss it, given the size of the group. Mr Calvo, who has tabled a question, could then turn to his speaking time outside the speaking time of ten minutes per political group and all the others who have tabled questions. I think that's the only way. Mr Gilkinet, if we have a procedural debate, we will be gone for half an hour. Then I'll just follow the list of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u2	Mr President, I do not wish to be in a bad mood at the beginning of the day and before we start this important debate that we have been waiting for a long time, but I would nevertheless like to put things in context. Today is October 21, 2015. It was around July 21, so now three months ago, that the government made a communication on the tax shift. Since then, we have regularly asked you, in writing, to organize meetings of the Finance Committee, which have been convened and then cancelled. We have also asked many questions. And it is only today that this debate can take place. It must be noted, however, that this debate is organized in such a way as to limit our ability to challenge the government. Let me tell you that this is not the right way to do things. I would also like to know where the Budget Minister is now. When asked yesterday by the press, following questions about the tax shift exercise, she said that adjustments would still be necessary and would come later. In these circumstances, what is the credibility of the exercise to which we are going to go in order, perhaps, to obtain answers, especially since many negotiations are still under way at intercabinet level? With regard to the organization of work – and I know that the task of the President is not obvious – those who have asked for the floor first will only be able to speak later because they are not members of the most important group in the House. In addition, you allow only one member of our group to speak when, as is the case in other debates, we could have allowed a representative of Ecolo and a representative of Groen to speak while respecting the ten-minute time allotted. Mr President, that is a lot! I believe that, for this issue, as for others, there is very little respect for Parliament and the parliamentarians who ask questions. You propose a way to organize the debates. I would like to express my disagreement with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u3	Mr President, I can testify that you have come to explain to me how you wanted to organise the proceedings. I consulted my group. As we have said in the press, we have deplored the fact that the debate on the tax shift has been postponed several times. It was initially scheduled for 15 September and then postponed to 1 October. This is October 21, when the government held its first press conference in July. Since then, we have not had the opportunity to meet to discuss this important project. Second, there can be no credible tax reform without a credible budget. Otherwise, it would be inconclusive in the budget. It is, anyway, for other reasons. That is why we believe it is essential to benefit as quickly as possible – I would even say today – from the presence of the Budget Minister. Above all, we need time to be able to express ourselves. We were deprived of a parliamentary debate for at least three months. Only ten minutes to speak is too little. In addition, the Socialist Group consists of three members of the Committee on Finance. You will understand that it is not enough to reserve three minutes for each of them, if we want to share the speaking time fairly. First of all, tax reform requires a debate of an economic nature. What is the underlying economic vision of tax reform? It also requires a more technical debate as well as a debate from the point of view of fiscal policy. What are the objectives of the government's redistribution of progressivity? We need time to debate all this. I'm not even talking about text analysis. This analysis will come later and we will see whether, legally, technically, the elements stand the way or not. But first of all, we must have a debate on the more general aspects. When I say "general", it doesn't mean "abstracts". It also means looking at how the government wants to conduct its tax policy. Also, giving us ten minutes this morning and possibly a reply later in the day is really insufficient. The order of business should be adjusted as we have always done, that is, by allowing everyone to express themselves in a reasonable and sufficient time to be able to develop all these arguments. Mr President, the approach you are proposing should probably be reconsidered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u4	I have heard a number of things and propose the following. We will not have a procedural debate. I am simply applying the Rules of Procedure and we shall examine the questions. I know that certain groups do not agree with that, but I have no choice but to keep the order of questions if my proposal is not accepted. We are therefore applying the Rules of Procedure and the answers will be grouped together by the Minister. Otherwise, we won't get out of here. I give the floor to Mr Gilkinet for the first question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u5	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u6	Mr Calvo, I am trying to find a reasonable solution, but if we fail to do so, we will simply apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u7	Mr President, you have no easy task. In the meantime, I know that the Minister was apparently unwilling to go down to this chamber committee in the summer. Minister, I very much regret that we must discuss an important issue such as fiscal reform in this way. Minister, you have managed to launch a promo website mijntaxshift.be earlier, but not to give a serious explanation here in Parliament. It is possible to launch promosites, but we cannot have a serious parliamentary debate. I deeply regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u8	Mr Calvo, you have a question and you can ask it. We have three hours to talk about the tax shift. I suggest we just follow the agenda. The first question can be put by Mr Gilkinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u9	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u10	Mr Crusnière, I have made a proposal and you do not accept it, so I am applying the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u11	Mr President, the first item I see on the agenda is an exchange of views with the Minister of Finance. We have had contacts with the secretariat of the committee. We asked when this debate would take place. We were told, after many postponements, that it would take place today with an exchange of views. We have clearly asked whether we need to ask questions in order to be able to speak in this context. We were told that it was an exchange of views with a debate, that it was useless to table questions. We then made the choice not to file it in order to be able to intervene. Today, you come back to the questions. There is a minimum of respect for parliamentary work; I ask that we return to an exchange of views and that we should be able to intervene in this exchange, that those who have tabled questions should be able to ask them and that the various groups should be given time to express themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u12	I have made a proposal that meets your wishes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u13	Mr President, we are calling for respect for the agenda. What is included in item 1? Exchange of views on the tax shift. I do not see why we would limit the speaking time of each group to ten minutes. We all let each other express ourselves. The government has been speaking unilaterally for three months through press conferences, press releases on the tax shift. We're forced to talk through the media. This is the first time that we have had the opportunity to speak in a parliamentary forum and we want to be limited to ten minutes. That's not acceptable! Should I recall yesterday's episode? We learn from the press that, for excise duties, the government will proceed by arresting royal, whereas initially it had asked for urgency by tabling a bill that should have been considered by the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u14	What is your proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u15	My proposal is to start with the first item on the agenda, to respect that agenda and to give each group the opportunity to speak in a reasonable and sufficient time. I'm not saying three hours. I don't say an hour, but I don't say ten minutes either. It takes a reasonable time and allows each member of the group to speak in an order of speech and passage that obviously respects the plurality of the groups represented. I am not saying that socialists have to speak for three hours each in turn. But let us at least start, and let Mr Crusnière and Mr Mathot also have the opportunity to intervene! Our request is limited to that. Let us start with the item on the agenda and give us a latitude to develop our arguments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u16	Colleagues, I have not taken the decision to hold an exchange of views. This was discussed during September. At that time, there were only three oral questions from Mr. Gilkinet. Since then, things have changed. We had the debate in plenary with the State of the Union. Today, I propose either to follow the list of oral questions or to give the groups the opportunity to speak at the rate of one speaker per group for ten minutes to a quarter of an hour. Those who have asked a question may join the discussion at the time of the general debate. As I said at the beginning, there is no other solution. We cannot afford to hold a three-hour debate where everyone can speak and interrupt without taking into account those who have asked questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u17	Mr President, why not do what we have done before? On the agenda is indicated "exchange of views on the tax shift". Let's have an exchange of views on the tax shift! If parliamentarians who wish to speak are asking for the floor, arrange an order of passage as requests are made! We've always done this! Everyone will speak, the minister will answer, and we will still have a reply. Why change today? Ten minutes or a quarter of an hour is not enough! The government has been talking about the tax shift for three months! It is time to respect Parliament!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u18	Mr President, I have come here today to attend this sitting. However, I cannot get the impression that a number of people here want to have a debate because of the debate. The tax shift will be dealt with in all its different facets in the different committees. The general line of the tax shift was explained last week by the Prime Minister in his State of the Union. All group leaders then took the floor to give their views on this tax shift. We can, of course, repeat each debate seven times without having specific texts. It seems logical to me to have the whole debate on the tax shift at the time when the legislation is being discussed in this House. This is a Parliament. This is where legislation is discussed. This is not a market where people can have a casual exchange of views with certain people. Today there is no legislation on the tax shift on the agenda. The Minister may always be interrupted, but I do not think that a general debate on the tax shift is necessary or even unnecessary. Moreover, it contradicts what happened in plenary last week. Each group was then able to express its opinion on this tax shift. If people think they can do better than their own group leader, they should do so in their question to the Minister. However, let us start with the various questions. This is a round of questions in which MEPs ask the Minister for a reply on specific issues. Let us not mess this up again by asking for more than ten minutes' speaking time. Let us confine ourselves to what is on the agenda, namely questions to the Minister. I suspect that we will get clear answers from the Minister as we are used to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard various contradictory views here. As President, I can only revert to the questions that have been asked, unless my earlier proposal is followed. I am prepared to extend the speaking time from 10 minutes to 15 minutes. After the Minister has replied, there is still plenty of time for replies. So there are two proposals. Either we simply follow the list of questions in accordance with the order laid down and have five minutes of speaking time per question each. Either we follow the system Dondt and take into account the strength of the group. Each group then has 15 minutes of speaking time, in which the questions can be incorporated. You will then have to decide within the group who is to speak. I would suggest the latter, because we have a full three hours. Every group that has tabled questions will have 15 minutes to speak and groups that have not tabled questions will have 10 minutes. That's my proposal. We're not going to have any procedural debates here. It is always said that it should be about content. Well, let's talk about the content. I'm also chairman of the committee to make proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u20	I just want to point out that as President, you have the opportunity to implement the agenda. Agenda item 1 is the exchange of views with the Minister of Finance on the tax shift. So if you want to go back to the agenda, do it. Ten minutes or a quarter of an hour is not enough. Give us at least twenty minutes!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u21	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u22	Wait, Mr. Van Biesen, it's too easy. You're talking nonsense. I understand that you have things to hide, but here in Parliament, we are here to clarify things and in ten minutes it is impossible. You've been talking about salads for three months, three months! The agenda provides for the resumption of work in the afternoon. It means that if you give each one 20 minutes, you didn't go around the question because the answers have to come in the afternoon, you can still resume the work in the afternoon. That is what is on the agenda. You will still agree that it is the agenda that is authoritative in our work. If we can no longer rely on the agenda sent to parliamentarians, what should we expect next? We could be asked, for example, to prepare ourselves for a debate on electricity and then finally, we do something else, we talk about diesel excise duties. No, excuse me, the agenda is authentic in our work!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u23	There is the Laaouej proposal. We will not get the Minister's answer until this afternoon. If you want to hold the debate, then that is your responsibility. I propose that the largest party, the N-VA, should start as part of the exchange of views. You don't have to use your time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u24	Mr President, I thought we were going to work in a completely different setting today. We are not going to deal with the proposal on the organisation of work, and we will not be taking the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u25	The second largest party is the MR. Who's taking the floor? No one's here. Or indeed, Mr Piedboeuf, you also have a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u26	Mr President, we are well aware of this subject. I have a number of questions, particularly about the tax shift, which I will ask earlier in the flow of questions. As Mr Laaouej says, we have been talking about it for a long time, so we know the subject. We expect to know what our opponents think and we will react. I have no specific statement to make. I propose that Mr Laaouej take two of the ten minutes on my speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u27	Mr President, the MR owes us at least two minutes, since he was given the floor in the second.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u28	Mr Laaouej, you now have the opportunity to make your statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u29	In twenty minutes, after three months of government propaganda, it will be difficult to answer everything. We'll try. First of all, as I was telling you, it is difficult to devise a serious debate on tax reform without the presence of the Budget Minister for several reasons. First of all, we have spoken about this, we will come back to it, there is a big problem of fiscal trajectory. That is to say, you are making a tax reform that will not keep the budget going. We have identified a problem of reducing structural tax revenues in VAT and corporate tax as early as 2015, and things will continue. This will cause a structural deficit far greater than the one you plan. So how are you going to fill the gaps that will inevitably be created by the revenue cuts associated with the tax reforms that you are undertaking? There is a shadow zone that, if it is not removed, removes any credibility from your tax reform. A tax reform that is not properly funded, which is not backed up by a serious budget, is a slender and misleading tax reform. We therefore ask for a discussion on the tax shift with the Minister of Budget. There is a second reason why we need to see the Budget Minister: it is the impact on the regions and the municipalities. Between July and October, you increased the budget allocated to tax reform. Why? Because we demonstrated that with your July announcements, you did not hold on to your commitment to insure every employee 100 euros more per month. You couldn't do it because of the taxes on consumption and index jump that completely neutralized your commitment. The result of the races: between July and October, while the toothpaste came out of the tube and you tried to get it back, you increased the budget envelope of your tax reform by €1.2 billion to ensure your promise. The problem is that this amount – I will demonstrate it later – is not funded. It thus digs a hole by 2019. And, in addition, you have increased the impact on the Regions. We therefore wish to see with the Budget Minister where she is in her discussions with the federated entities because she is in charge, with the Prime Minister, of the cohesion of fiscal federalism. This is a real problem and as long as it is not mentioned, because you have your reform financed by other levels of power (regions and municipalities) but in addition, it means that you make misleading announcements when you say that it is thanks to the federal government that we will provide 100 euros per month to the employee. No, of these 100 euros, part will be financed by the Regions and the municipalities. There is therefore a need to clarify this point in order to be able to see the veracity of the federal government's comments on its announcement effects. There is another point and the confession was signed by the Prime Minister. We know why it's abusive to talk about tax shift. The Prime Minister explained to us that the reduction in labour taxes was partly offset by an increase in taxes on consumption, but he hoped that people could change their behaviour because they had health goals, such as diesel excises, soda taxes, etc. But if people change their behavior, you're going to have a drop in revenue. This means that to compensate for a fall in structural revenue, i.e. the PPI, which always has a positive elasticity, you have revenues that are not structural and that are destined to disappear over time. This means that you do not structurally finance your tax reform. You are going to increase the structural balance and that is a problem that needs to be resolved with the Budget Minister, which we are not given the opportunity to do. These are some elements that I believe should require the presence of the Minister of Budget. I will add another one, but it can already be discussed with the Minister of Finance, the famous 2.4 billion revenue on capital, which seems to be a major obstacle to the Open Vld. I thought I understood that during the parliamentary debates in plenary. The CD&V, on the other hand, is rather pleased with this figure of $2.4 billion. In reality, the Open Vld must be reassured because of the 2.4 billion, there is at least half that is completely out of balance. If I have a chance, I'll come back. Here are a number of reasons why the Minister of Budget should be present. So it's really time for her to come back. I must also deplore – and this is a political fact – the coup de force against Parliament in the matter of diesel excise duties. It is an element of the tax shift that has to bring a lot of money back to the government on the backs of households. We wanted to have a parliamentary debate; we learn that this will be done by royal decree. I would remind you that the increase in VAT on electricity – and here the government can do so by royal decree because that is what the law provides – has also escaped a debate in parliament. It is therefore the second time that, on important revenues that are supposed to finance tax reform, you are seeking to avoid a debate in Parliament. Another thing, which reflects a lack of foresight characteristic of the government: you are in the process of making a tax reform which, in your opinion, is far-reaching. Why don't you take the time, first, to measure the precise budgetary effects and the effects on the economy? What do I have in mind when I talk about the specific budgetary effects? I recall the 2001 tax reform, which had been assessed at the budget level by the FPS Finances with static bases. The Planning Office, a few months later, had carried out a budget evaluation with dynamic bases, as is always the case. So my question is: have you made a budgetary assessment of the cost of tax reform with static or dynamic bases? To ensure this, it would be sufficient to ask the Planning Office, more than the Court of Auditors, although this could be done jointly, to make a precise assessment of the budgetary effect, taking into account the dynamics of the bases. If you do not do so, you underestimate the budgetary effects of the tax reform for natural persons. It is still time to do so, but that is something on which I think it is necessary to hear from the Minister of Finance. Similarly, the same Office of the Plan had estimated only 25 per cent of the returns in terms of revenue generated by the resumption of economic activity supposed to be induced by the 2001 tax reform. Only 25%! In other words, out of four euros spent, the government recovers only one of them in terms of revenue from tax cuts. Have you had such an analysis of returns done by the Planning Office rather than putting a figure in your budget tables? In this regard, too, your approach seems to me to be in deficit. Another important point in making a good tax reform is to measure first the effects on progressivity and redistribution. No one will doubt that one of the indicators that makes it possible to see whether or not a tax reform is right is to assess its effect on progressivity and redistribution. These are two indicators that can be joined but do not confuse. Have you requested this exercise from, for example, the Supreme Finance Council? What the government is planning, namely a reduction in the tax on natural persons (PIPs) - which is not only targeted at low and medium incomes, but which will also concern high incomes - coupled with a huge increase in taxes on consumption - which is known to be regressive, that is, the higher the incomes, the higher the burden on household budgets - is obviously not neutral, neither in terms of progressivity, nor in terms of redistribution. Has this been analyzed by the government? I'm afraid not. That is why I believe that the government, under the pressure of its own announcements, its own delays and internal difficulties, did not carry out these analyses. I hope he did. If necessary, we would like to have all the analyses, from the Planning Office, the Court of Auditors and the FPS Finance, available for parliamentary debate. We would like to have it available for the parliamentary debate. On the other hand, if the government has not done so, it means that you are proposing a tax reform whose effects are random, which is not a good policy. Fiscal reform also needs political credibility. I remember the mistakes that have been made recently: the 750 million that have become 600 million, which the Regions have been deprived of, and the budgetary hole of one billion in 2015, which we drew your attention to by saying that you have overestimated your corporate tax revenues, to take only these two examples. These errors affect the government's budgetary credibility. The first thing to do is to restore the credibility of the government to ensure that what it tables in Parliament is equally credible. If you are not credible on the budget, the press will not fail to relay it and it will not create a climate of confidence in our citizens. If you do not create confidence in households and economic actors, people will not believe in your advertising effects. And besides, if I stick to what we can read in some barometers, they don't trust the reform you're proposing. This is why it is necessary to clarify this project by providing studies that reinforce the seriousness of your approach. I very much fear that all this is missing from what you are putting on the table today. Earlier, we were talking about the tax shift name. Can we really talk about a tax shift? The Conseil Supérieur des Finances referred to several ways in which a shift tax might be possible: consumer taxes, of course, but also a path in which the overall reduction in labour taxation was offset by a fairer contribution of taxation on capital income. It's not that last lead you choose. You prefer that of increasing taxes on consumption. In this regard, you use a rhetorical process that must be denounced: to present the employee's figure as a sort of abstraction. The employee would only be employed and would ultimately count in his situation only the fact that he perceives a wage that you think can be increased by a reduction in taxes on labour that will eventually be pre-counted. In reality, the employee is not an abstraction but an individual who can have children and own a car that will drive 6 times out of 10 on diesel. It's someone who consumes, lights up, heats up... the employee is not an abstraction but a reality. He is a human being with his needs that will be penalized by taxes that will have an impact on his consumer behaviour. There was indecency in the government's political presentation. With regard to taxes on consumption, the government has explained to us that people have the free choice... the free choice to enlighten themselves? The free choice to use a diesel car? We're gonna ask them to resell it and opt for gasoline? Does everyone have the means to sell their car and buy a new one? You are here in abstraction and we find this one in your montaxshift.be simulator where you obviously do not integrate the loss of purchasing power that are related to the increases in taxes on consumption and also, it should be recalled, to the index jump. You cannot dissociate the reform of personal tax, your tax shift, from taxes on consumption, or from your economic policy in general, including index jumps. If we want to look at the effect of your reforms on purchasing power, we need to take the whole thing and not sausage. We see that throughout your policy, you proceed from the ideology of the supply economy. Do you really think that a contraction on domestic demand that you will immediately trigger in 2015 and 2016 with the index jump as well as with the whole increase in consumption taxes will help to revive the economy? Do you really think that it is by suffocating domestic demand that we are going to create investment and job creation opportunities? While your tax cuts that are supposed to have a compensatory effect – but we see it, very imperfect – would only be fully implemented by 2019-2020 in a context that is not funded, because you do not finance your tax reform to the tune of 1.2 billion. You do not finance it, you rely for another billion on the Regions and the municipalities whose difficult budgetary situation is known. And that $1.2 billion you don't finance, what will it mean? By additional savings in public services? By further cuts in social security? By other taxes? That is why we say - and it is ultimately the formula that best sums up your action - that you give with one hand and take back from the other. You fill one pocket but you empty the other. That's what best sums up your tax reform. I have also said, it is a mirror to the larks when suddenly a centre-right government if I dare say, with liberals, come and clarify: "we have never done so much with regard to the capital tax: 2.4 billion". I can understand that on the part of your francophone and Dutch-speaking Liberal friends, we are trying to be amnesia with regard to the actions of the previous government, but I would like to remind you that under the previous government, five billion - real those - were sought out on capital, plus two billion for the fight against tax evasion. Here, you come to clarify that you have been looking for 2.4 billion. I don't have time to review all the points relating to that $2.4 billion, but it's not going well. First, there are elements that have nothing to do with it, such as tax on intercommunals. Or you consider - but it is an ideological shift - that all corporate tax is capital tax. Why don't you just say it then? The real estate SICAVs, objectively I don't understand why all this is going to be considered as capital tax. As far as the liquidation reserve is concerned, you just fail to say that there will be a loss of furniture discount. I'm becoming technical, but I'm forced to do so by the time I'm given. There is still a whole range of other elements that are in fact only early measures, not to mention the Cayman tax whose yield has been inflated. We had the minister's explanation in plenary, but I also have criticisms of that explanation. So, deep down, your 2.4 billion melts like snow in the sun, don't hold on to the road, but you're trying by some kind of mystification to say that in the end, you're not that mean, that you're also going to look for money from capital. The truth is, the only thing that's certain about your new revenue is taxes on consumption and that's very concrete for people. Mr Piedboeuf, you come from the province of Luxembourg, you know how much people out there need their cars. For someone who uses his car to go to work, one full once a week, it'll be 350 euros more on an annual basis, since it's 7 euros more on gas. The increase in VAT on electricity represents a minimum of EUR 110 per year. Add the index jump. Do you really think that this is how you will convince our fellow citizens? I don't think they're fools. Mr. Minister of Finance, I have a more specific request for you. Can we finally have a picture of a precise temporality of the entry into force of all your measures, both reductions in personal tax and increases in consumption taxes? Can we have this calendar? We know that this has been disrupted; indeed, you have had to anticipate excise duties and taxes on consumption because of the one-billion-dollar budget gap you have. Could we now inform people of what to expect, the catalogue of bad news before the trances? As long as we don't have this calendar, we won't have a global view of what your tax shift really is. As I have already mentioned, why not set up a simulator my purchasing power.be, where you indicate what you consider to be good news without concealing the bad news? Another very important point is the situation of pensioners. I heard Mr. From Croo say, without laughing: "Pensioners will also benefit from the reform of the tax of natural persons." Mr. Does De Croo know that 75% of single pensioners are below the EUR 15 500 threshold, below which, today, pensioners do not have a PPI, i.e. have a tax reduction that prevents them from paying tax? For them, therefore, there will be no PPI gain. On the other hand, they will have VAT on electricity. They've already had or they'll have the index jump on their pension. Moreover, if they have the misfortune of driving diesel, they will have the excise duty on diesel. This means that the great forgotten, the great losers, the ones who are really shattered by the policies that you lead are the pensioners. I do not understand the government's obsession to make people who have worked their whole lives and who were hoping to be treated a little differently. I come to an element that should be discussed with the Minister of Budget. We consider that 50% of your tax reform is not funded, because of the 1.2 billion that has been added to make sure that you are going to try facially to guarantee at least 100 euros to each employee – and I explained how misleading it was – but also because, for this other part of the 50% (1.1 billion), you have your tax reform financed by the Regions and by the municipalities without having agreed to it. However, it would have been possible to reform the tax on natural persons, to do a jobkorting without touching the Regions. It was technically feasible. It was enough to make a purely federal tax reduction. You didn't. This helps you because it allows you to make the Regions and the municipalities support part of your tax reform. Mr President, I will honour the commitment I have made. In light of what I have just said and without overly pretense, you will understand that we need more time to be able to deal seriously with the issue of tax reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u30	Mr Deseyn, you can speak from your place.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u31	Mr President, I am standing here in the chair, not only because I like to stand up, but because otherwise I have to ask the Minister to fire at his back, which would not be very polite. This meeting takes place in a special setting and it is better to be able to look people in the eye, especially in order to defend something politically. Mr Minister, it is a good thing that we can have the debate on the tax shift today, because some of my fellow Members reacted rather dislikely, as if you were not able to discuss it last week and you were available all night to debate and answer all possible questions. In view of the absence of the Minister for the Budget, the Minister for Finance is speaking on behalf of the whole government, so we should not be concerned about that point. I will take the floor explicitly on behalf of my group, because, Mr Van Biesen, we have an excellent leader, but that does not mean that our group is limited to the leader. We therefore do not avoid continuing the debate on taxation and putting forward some concerns and technical questions. The tax shift was a bit like Loch Ness' monster, everyone talked about it, everyone had certain representations of it, but nobody had seen that tax shift up close and nobody could make a proper evaluation of it. Mr Minister, unlike that monster, something concrete has now emerged and so we can debate the real tax shift here today, as he was knocked off. It is important to underline once again, as an introduction, the positive elements relating to the purchasing power story, the beneficiaries that we do not leave behind, and the VAT increase, which will be compensated for one piece for the weakest people. There are four pillars, including health and eco-taxality. I would have thought that certain groups would respond more enthusiastically to this, but we see that they too do not dare to make choices in their alternative. VAT is also a step in the right direction, it is a start. It is clear that the VAT debate has not yet been completed. Yesterday, we heard from the European Commission services that there is still a great deal of work to be done on VAT collection, the standardisation of rates and the reduction of deductions and exceptions. Then there's the share of capital revenue. That is a step in the right direction. As our President also said, let the better not be the enemy of good, the better will not prevent us from taking good measures in the shorter term, including in the area of capital tax. The fourth pillar of the tax shift is a more efficient government. I will have a number of questions about this later. It is important that we also explain why we are taking steps in the right direction with every explanation. Some of them are rather bitter. They say that these steps do not go long enough, they do not go fast enough or they do not go far enough, but they do go in the direction that needs to be followed. It's about more competitiveness. It is about important social signals and more justice. This is also a justice shift. This can be illustrated very specifically by the raising of the withholding tax and the caiman tax. The speculative tax is indeed a modest start, not the end point, but it opens the door to a more thorough debate on a real added value tax. I don't think this is a big surprise. This has already been said by several groups, including the majority, in this debate. The fight against tax fraud is also an important ambition. The PS said she used to do a lot more. I think you should not underestimate what will be rolled out in this area over the next four years. I thought it was important to take the floor here. Many thought the tax shift would never get there. Many were skeptical. It was not thought that this important exercise would be completed by October or November. Mr Minister, I will now go into more detail on the various parts and ask you a few questions about those points on which we are still a little concerned, in order to make this debate clearer. The questions sometimes relate to the budget, but above all we want to look at the pace and the exact perimeter of the measures. When it comes to the EUR 1.7 billion reduction, the linear reduction of employers' contributions, the government has not forgotten. A percentage was also reserved for the non-profit - more than 11 % - and for the sheltered workshops. These things are still not being realised, because they sometimes refuse to see the good of them. Let us look at the amounts. In 2016, 2017 and 2018 it concerns 620, 700 and a further 700 million euros respectively. Are these amounts completely distinguishable from the amounts previously included in the Competitiveness Pact? Because there too, discs were announced amounting to 600 million euros for 2016 and 300 million euros for 2019. I would have liked to know whether there is overlap or a cumulative effort. The linear reduction of charges. We must not, of course, be blind to the potential impact it may have on target groups reductions. There is, of course, a strong interference with our fellow Members on the other side, who are debating the regional cuts in target groups. Has there been any consultation with the Regions on this? What's the status? I am concerned about the specific reductions in charges in the non-profit sector and sheltered workshops. What does this mean for their competitiveness and their day-to-day business activities? EUR 430 million is foreseen specifically for the self-employed and SMEs. In addition, there is the investment deduction that can be increased to 8%. On this investment deduction, do I have a specific question, in particular whether it is on top of the already decided increase in digital investment? Will it be extended, too? Will the scope be extended to, for example, the costs of developing a web shop? I assume that this applies to all sectors and that this also applies to both start-ups and large companies. How far does the ambition reach when it comes to investment deductions for SMEs? I have similar questions about the EUR 80 million reserved for high-tech activities. Of course that's a container concept. Innovation technology is one of the buzz words that is addressed in any political discussion and is also very important for our economic fabric. How does this relate to the current investment deduction? What will be the criterion of whether or not something is classified as a high-tech? Our party has also explicitly committed itself to the construction sector with the Minister of Work. In the meantime, do you have any findings or conclusions to suggest on behalf of the government? One important issue, and the government itself has set the bar quite high, is the EUR 100 per month, which the government is now gradually trying to roll out and fill out. We are confident that significant amounts will be made. However, our concern also extends to pensioners. Of course, it's always about a mix of measures, which I don't have to list all of them. I am thinking, for example, of the tax bonus or the 30% or the flat-rate allowance. One can modulate on so many parameters. Indeed, the opposition can come up with very negative scenarios to show how far away one is from the 100 euro bar. Of course, one can also come up with a very favourable scenario, which goes well beyond EUR 100. However, let us also carry out this simulation for pensioners. We can say that pensions are not particularly generous for many people in Belgium. What will happen for pensioners? How will there be extra care for this category, so that pensioners benefit from the increase in purchasing power? Minister, you will not be surprised that I would also like to ask a few questions about the speculative tax. Will the derivatives around the perimeter, the scope, be further extended to turbo-jets and sprinters? These are very advanced techniques for the marketing of shares and capital. It is important that this tax is defined very broadly when it is intended to counter speculation and to anchor social investment capital. It must also generate, because the minimum yield is set at EUR 34 million. A proper control and collection mechanism will therefore be necessary. At first, EUR 28 million of revenue was foreseen, but this ambition was raised as a minimum amount to be achieved. However, in view of the large volumes of transactions, we have to say that EUR 34 million is relatively modest. Everything can be seen and this must also be seen within a fiscal competition and competition of capital markets and exchanges. I would also like to discuss the six-month period. We can ask ourselves why this deadline is set at six months. However, with regard to increasing volumes, I do not wish to exhaust the debate. First of all, we will have to roll out what has already been decided on that point. As in the case of personal taxation, a tranche should now be reserved for cities and municipalities in the general tax system. The speculation tax and the extra income for the federal government can create derivative effects. By means of opcenities or a slightly increased spillover, there can be a financial beneficial effect for cities and municipalities. It is interesting to take a look at this, given the large amount of income that the cities and municipalities have to lose, and this loss does not have to do with federal policy. Now I come to the 27 percent withholding tax. Two movements are possible in this respect, namely the introduction of a uniform rate and an increase in the rate. It would be interesting to know whether the exceptions will be eliminated first, after which the tariff will be increased, or that 27 % will be set in one movement, but that at the same time exceptional regimes will be suppressed. The question arises as to what happens to the specific exemption rates for the special liquidation reserve. I also have to say something about excise duties. I live not only in the south of West Flanders, where there may be a distortion of the rolling tobacco market. Much more excise duty will now be levied on this. I'm not here as a lobbyist. I believe that there is a legitimate argument for this measure, but there are, of course, some effects on buying behaviour and a possible shift. I have discovered in the preparatory documents that all kinds of indexes are used, such as the Marlboro index. They do provide interesting insights into the international position and how our country can or cannot be competitive with a number of producers in that sector. This also applies to soft drinks. I'm not here to make a plea for tobacco. In our region we all know the flight to the Auchan shops and other retailers, just across the border. We must ensure that we do not strengthen this phenomenon. In this respect too, therefore, a number of caveats, with which I certainly do not want to prejudice the measures, the increased excise duties. I just want to point out possible alternatives in people's spending patterns, which threatens the federal government to lose revenue. I won't talk about the caiman tax. What fascinates me is the special investment structure SIS for real estate companies. The reason for this is that it is good to have such a legal structure in Belgium, otherwise real estate will be housed in foreign structures. I would have liked to know who was in mind in the design of this measure. Is it about big office buildings or residential towers? Or is it also about the small patrimony company that can find a more interesting tax treatment in this vehicle? The ratio is perfectly justified, but the question arises as to whether something is being created here that can have an effect on other legal structures, which in turn can hypothesize certain revenues. There is always the question of finding a balance between the attraction of our country and guaranteed income. As far as the recovery of taxes and fines is concerned, our group has stressed in many debates the need for better recovery. I think it would be a good idea to discuss this. Will additional staff be recruited for this? A good official on the Treasury has a strong payback effect. Sometimes people are reluctant to argue for additional recruitment. Politics wouldn't be sexy. I think that is extremely sexy, because then people can be told to make sure that everyone contributes their share. Rest assured that if we have tighter and stronger fiscal controls in place, the pressure for everyone will perhaps be able to ease a little. This is, of course, linked to the debate on the government's redesign. An efficient government is a very noble attitude. It is quantified at many millions of euros. The question is how this redesign can be implemented in practice, knowing that the replacement ratio in the different departments will only become one in five. For me, design and investment in efficiency and information technology are investments, cost items. These are not short-term savings, but in the long term they can generate a lot of efficiency gains. I sometimes have the impression in the debate that people actually want to reap the benefits, have sown, fertilized and taken good care of them. I would like to express another concern about the people who have to implement the tax shift in practice. Not only the Cabinet and the FPS Finances face a major challenge, but also the people and the social secretariats who have to make the wage calculations are to be congratulated on the services that will still have a difficult task to carry out before the end of the year. For example, the Social Secretary's Union is right to ask for as many dates as possible to be changed on 1 January, to respect the quarters and to respect a little transitional time to adapt software and ICT. Otherwise, there are very complex calculation modules and a high risk of errors and unnecessary costs for sectors where margins are sometimes under pressure. That is right, because the FPS Finance also called for a number of calculations in the context of the state reform the right excuse that the roll-out and the ICT adjustments needed their time to deliver on everything in practice, so I would ask for some attention to be paid to that too. Finally, Minister, I would like to look at the international level. Mr President, over the last few weeks, we have invested a lot of time in debates with OECD and European Commission people on the BEPS project and the CFC rules. In Belgium we do not have specific regulations on this, but we will have to take positions and set out guidelines on the things that are being proposed. This concerns not only the EU's recommendations, which are somewhat more binding, but also the recommendations of the OECD, to which we have committed ourselves. It would be good to give a timing for the draft law on the automatic exchange of financial data and for other matters such as the patent box and the CFC rules, which should be delivered in this context. It is good that this international movement can be synchronised with what we have decided at home, so that the net around the tax sinner closes. You are now also responsible for the fight against fraud. You will also come up with an action plan yourself. We are very pleased about this and we look forward to a solid plan that can also fill in the figures as proposed at the tax shift. Mr Hendrik Bogaert will deal with specific aspects if our speaking time is not yet exhausted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u32	We're at 18 minutes. I give the floor to Mr Bogaert for two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u33	Mr President, I will do my best. I also salute the extensive delegation of students from KU Leuven. As an ex-preses, I must say that sometimes things were a little more quiet on our cantwitch than here at the beginning of the sitting. I'm glad the peace has returned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u34	That's not a good sign. Then it wasn't a good cant in between.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u35	They were very good cantuss. I've missed you there from time to time. You were always blocking, weren't you?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u36	I wasn't at KU Leuven.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u37	You come to your two questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u38	Mr President, I would like to address the question that has often been raised in the topical and urgent debate: is this tax shift a right-wing plot? When I hear the PS or Ecolo-Green sometimes, I have the impression that this would be the message. There are, after all, a number of important counter-arguments in this agreement. I know there is no capital gain tax in it, but I think it is a very social agreement for the following reasons. Firstly, the net that goes to the people, EUR 2.5 billion with horizon 2020, mainly goes to the lowest mismatch or the lowest half of income. Het cut-off point is 2 800 euro bruto. In the immediate communication in July, that was 2 400 euros gross. That amount's been pushed up a little bit. At that time they were actually sitting at the 30 per cent percentile, but that was increased to 50 per cent. The 100 euros therefore mainly go to low incomes. Higher incomes also get something, but by no means the EUR 100 per person, as is the case for the lowest percentile of 50%. Secondly, the additional revenue for the government has an important effect or impact on the index, although it still needs to be developed technically. The political question is what is all in the index of the measures that the government is taking now. If there are measures in the index, then it is a technical logic itself that companies pay for them. For example, it was decided to include the increase in VAT on electricity from 6 % to 21 % in the index. Sooner or later, measured at a legislative time, this will be borne by the companies. So the companies actually pay that part of the tax shift. That is why the question is what will be included in the index next to electricity. I assume that the health index does not include a number of things, by definition, but other things are undoubtedly. The sugar tax, for example, has an impact on the index, so that the companies actually pay the sugar tax of the workers. Colleagues, this is an important point in the lists that are being distributed, including by sp.a. I also heard Mr Vanvelthoven, a good colleague, on the radio proclaim what people are losing and winning. It is good that this political consideration is being made. However, ceteris paribus must be admitted that some of these measures will have an impact on the index. So the people are actually buffered for those measures. I purposely use the expression ceteris paribus. The index jump was there, but once the 2% of that "hole" is included in the index, it is then the question of which measures are included in the index or not. That's a question for the government. In the communication on this subject, we hear that the index will increase faster, but that does not help companies very much. I also refer to articles in the press stating that the increase in VAT on electricity would cost the companies EUR 300 million. With regard to the tax shift, tables were distributed in July and I suppose we still have to take those tables into account. Now, of each of the lines in it, the question is whether or not they have an impact on the index, and whether this can be quantified in euro debt securities rather than in timing. Mr President, I will conclude with a question that is somewhat in line with Mr Laaouej's concern about the budget or the overall impact of the tax shift. I'll add the report of the monitoring committee, issued on 22 September. That report contains four tables on page 6 and the third table shows the difference between the balance in June and September. That is actually about the tax shift, because I do not see what other measures would have been taken in that interim period with such a significant budgetary impact. I have included that table in the question I have put to the Minister. That table states that in 2015 the government will collect 540 million euros from the baseline. In 2016, this is 1.7 billion euros. When I put that table together with the tax shift measures, I notice that there are some oneshot measures in it for 2015. However, for 2016, there are no one-shot measures in the tables, which means that the tax shift will still raise around EUR 1 billion. I should rather like to clarify this matter technically with you. It would be interesting if you had an answer to that question. If you have an answer to that, a tax shift will be used to collect net money. What are the cost savings, which, of course, is very positive? What is there about possible net revenue increases in that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u39	Speakers of Open Vld, sp.a, Ecolo-Groen, the cdH and PTB will follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not originally intend to speak. However, out of respect for the students, who apparently knew better than the political groups that we would have an exchange of views today, in which a position per party would be developed, and in view of the fact that a number of questions are being asked and a number of data is being disseminated, I shall take the floor. Firstly, it is the second tax shift that the current government realizes in a good year for a total of EUR 7.2 billion. Isn't that something? That's a lot. What does the government do with this amount of EUR 7.2 billion? It reduces wage costs and increases purchasing power. In this amount of EUR 7.2 billion, there are purchasing power measures worth EUR 2.8 billion. In other words, this is an important tax shift. It is also an important part of the government's work until the end of the current legislature. We still have a thousand and one nights and days until the end of the present legislature to carry out the tax shift. The tax shift also determines the tax reform of the entire government. In this way, the government's work also indicates that the rest of the existing budget deficits will have to be searched for further through savings. Apart from the tax shift, there is still a very important item, namely the budgetary path that our country needs to balance. I therefore hope that all the groups will maintain budgetary orthodoxy somewhat and remain on the path we have chosen, as we have told all the European institutions. As a result, we are given the green light every once in a while and our country can remain free from the penalty clause. Remember that the governments of the past have burdened us with immense public debt. Our sovereign debt is so high that we could still be covered by the procedure of a fine clause, because the percentage of our public debt vis-à-vis our GNP is much higher than what Europe allows. The tax shift means a tax shift. On the one hand, the tax shift makes our companies competitive, because the reduction in the wage burden is almost eliminating the competitive disadvantage globally. On the other hand, fiscal reform also increases purchasing power. I'd like to think about that. The government will be judged on the answer to the question whether everyone has 100 euros more on their paycheck by 31 December 2019. I think that we should, above all, take the view that those who want to earn more must work first and foremost. In other words, whoever works will be rewarded by the government. Our main accent is on the working class; it should be able to keep more on the paycheck. Let there be no discussion about that. In other words, for a number of categories, the EUR 100 per month is not a fetish stricto sensu. What are the important measures of EUR 2.8 billion in order to increase purchasing power? On the one hand there is an increase of EUR 900 million in the flat-rate allowance, part of which is already in the second half of this year and the other part in the half of next year. So the working man will contribute EUR 900 million less to the treasury. In other words, that is what is left on the paycheck. That's not nothing. Secondly, we are removing the 30% tax base. It's been a long time since a tax disk was removed. Fortunately, I had the advantage of participating in the first fiscal reform in the early 2000s. Then, together with red and green, we abolished the 52.5 percent disc. Now the 25% tax base will apply to the revenue previously covered by the 30% tax base. Moreover, the tax disc of 40 % also applies to a higher amount, where the 45 % disc also applies to a higher amount. So families whose two partners work improve twice thanks to these measures. We are also strengthening the tax and social work bonus, two specific measures costing EUR 246 million. In short, these are concrete measures of EUR 900 million, EUR 850 million and EUR 246 million respectively, or, in other words, the amount that will be more on the pay slips. What do we do for those who do not receive a paycheck, for our self-employed and SMEs? For them, we are making an effort of 430 million euros, including by reducing social security contributions from 22 % to 20.5 %. So there are a lot of purchasing power measures and I firmly believe that in a good year's time those who work and work in Flanders and Belgium will be able to see the difference on the pay slip. So I'm not saying, as used to be in politics read my lips, but read your paycheck, just read your paycheck. Then you will see that the government has effectively kept its word. There is no other way, because the measures we have proposed will directly affect the pay slip. I repeat, by raising the flat-rate deduction for professional costs, by removing the tax base of 30% and by the social and tax bonus. Another important part of the tax shift is the reduction of the wage burden to make our companies competitive. The reduction in social security contributions from 33% to 25% is essential. Everyone asked for it. Everyone, from the smallest to the largest company that gets competition from abroad, realizes that this measure is essential if we are to eliminate the competitive disadvantage experienced by our companies today. The government does that all at once. There will be a reduction from 33% to 25% during this term of office. These are essential, fundamental measures. This is what a tax shift should be, on the one hand, the reduction of wage costs and the increase in purchasing power and, on the other hand, the increase in certain revenue items. What do we do? We work in the fields of the environment, consumers and wealth, as all the international institutions have recommended before. There are alternatives for some measures. If the price of the diesel increases, perhaps it is time to buy the ordered new car in the petrol version. I have to change too, because I'm driving a Volkswagen. I have just received a letter that I can also turn in my Volkswagen, so I will be able to make another choice in that regard. In fact, everyone has a choice in these environmental taxes. A second important item is the taxation of consumption. We must be able to adapt the behaviour of consumers. The sugar tax is an example of this. It can of course be said that the amount of the sugar tax is the first reduction in the major debate that will come later in order to steer much better towards alternatives. The third item is power. We should not get cold from that, but it is true: there is much more demand for power than before. The Cayman tax we have introduced will be able to stop and understand the shift from our country's taxable base to a non-taxable base abroad. And that is going to be more than we expected when we approved the beginning of this year. So there are a lot of measures that will effectively appeal to wealth, but we Liberals will always oppose any form of capital gains tax, any form of capital gains tax that affects the totality of people's income. I'd like to warn you. We are talking about the ordinary paycheck and the employment benefits that are taxed. He who leaves a euro at the end of the month and puts it on his savings notebook must, of course, not be taxed after that because he has not spent that euro. The ability that people have is what one has spared, what one has worked for and that has already been taxed once, twice or three times in the past. That is why we, as Liberals, will continue to oppose any form of capital card and a global declaration that reflects all elements of people's income. I keep saying this explicitly, and this is a condition for us, a sine qua non for policy. This is also why we fully support this tax shift, because it puts an end to all the speculation in that area to move on to a capital register and to a capital gain tax. In this respect, we have been very clear, and everyone can read the minutes of this sitting to know exactly what everyone has said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u41	If we read the Minutes, then perhaps we can also read the speech of (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u42	I call Mr Vanvelthoven. Do you share Mr Van Biesen's enthusiasm?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u43	Mr President, part of it is, I must say. For what part? For the purpose of the tax shift. We, too, have said from the outset that the objective of the tax shift must be to ensure that people who work are left with more money and that the wage burden on companies is reduced. I said that last week in plenary. There can be no misunderstanding about that. In our electoral programme, too, we have indicated that this is particularly important for sp.a. We disagree with this government's view that it has already been discussed in various debates on how to finance it. I hear CD&V and Mr Van Biesen especially stress........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That is right, but there are also a lot of tax increases. That's what this is about for us. The tax shift is a shift of burdens, a shift of taxes. Mr Van Biesen says: "Look at your paycheck next year." We don't need the Minister's site. People should look at their paycheck. It's as simple as that. What will people determine, however? The people who work get a little more net income. At the same time, however, they will find that with that little bit more they will have to pay far more invoices than is the case today. We do not think that is fair in this tax shift. It's not just sp.a. That's not just the opposition's opinion. I would remind you of statements made by prominent members of the CD&V Group. I note that they are absent at the time when this is being discussed in Parliament. They're not the least of them. In August, following the Minister's first announcement, Mrs Lanjri says: "This tax shift is not fair, too unbalanced. Our limit has been exceeded. I still want to be able to look in the mirror. Mr Vercamer says: 'The disappointment is great. That the wealthy remain out of the shot is a missed opportunity. I asked you last Wednesday. What are the big differences since August that make CD&V suddenly think this is fair, that she suddenly thinks this is balanced, that she suddenly thinks that no limit has been exceeded? (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u44	That already existed in August. Everything you have listed has been announced by the Minister at his press conference at the end of July. Everything else, nothing else came up. I'm gonna take a look at the chairman right now. It's a little pathetic. Two or three days ago, I heard you and Mr Ducarme, the group leader of the MR, saying that you were won for the Cucket tax, a real added value tax, after you put your trust here in the Chamber to a government that says it is not going to happen. Two days later, two prominent members of the majority say that there should be a real added value tax; that would be fair. Stay serious. I said the same thing last week. It is not a problem to announce the tax cuts that are being made. However, tell the whole story and do not come back and say that the Coucketaks will be there. I just heard Mr Deseyn say that the door is open. However, it was shut down by Mr Van Biesen. What are you still doing in this government? You have CD&V...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u45	That's a personal attack. It would be fair for me to be able to respond, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u46	It's politics, it's not personal. I didn't even mention your name.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u47	Mr President, the position is...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u48	I propose that we give every group the opportunity to intervene. Afterwards there are still replies possible. I was also personally endorsed, but Mr Vanvelthoven has the floor. Develop your reasoning further.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u49	Mr President, I would like to emphasise that I am not personally targeting anyone. I refer to statements you make; I respond to political statements. My point is that the tax shift announced by the government at the end of July, not to Parliament but to the press, has fundamentally changed nothing. There was rightly displeasure within the CD&V fraction. After all, a committee had been set up within CD&V that had prepared the tax shift. There was talk of an added value tax. I still hear the chairman of that committee say that this added value tax must be introduced. You've been saying that for a year. You keep saying it, but she's not coming. I blame you a little; you are not very honest in that regard. Just say it's not gonna happen, not even with CD&V. If you really mean it... The opposition is for that added value tax, the MR is for the added value tax and CD&V is for the added value tax. Then who's against it? Open Vld and N-VA. There is therefore a parliamentary majority today in favour of an added value tax. That would have been a fair tax shift. However, what do we see today? It is not the majority that decides in our country, but the minority of N-VA and Open Vld. They decide she won't be there. Unfortunately, that is the reality today. So we disagree about the tax shift and the justice of the tax shift. The fact that we disagree is, of course, political, but let us be clear. You said it was a historic tax reform, Minister. I think that's a little exaggerated. I've been looking up the numbers. In 1988 there was the individualization of personal taxation, the elimination of the accumulation and the introduction of the marital quotient. I think that was a lot more historic than what the government is doing today. In 2001, there was a tax reform, in which neutrality was introduced by way of life between single people, cohabitants and married persons. That went a little further too. Even if we look at what the tax shift means as a percentage of GDP, that figure was higher then than today. However, let us not have that discussion, because it is only about one word. You think the tax shift is historic, but I think there could have been a lot more to call it a historic tax reform. Mr President, I still have something to say. I touched it a while ago. The government has come to the press twice with the tax reform to explain them. The Minister has been invited to the committee twice. It was agreed that he would come to the committee, but that appointment was cancelled twice. I wrote to you about that at the time. You replied that we cannot oblige the Minister until the parliamentary year has begun. Actually, it's not supposed to be like that. The Minister calls it a historic tax reform. Last week we debated the State of the Union, but we have not even received a comprehensive explanation in Parliament about this historic tax reform. We didn't get it, nor did we get it on the committee. So there's something wrong with our operation. We really need to look at that. The government must and may continue to work and make important decisions during the holiday period, but then the Minister must come and explain these plans to the Members of Parliament, regardless of whether the parliamentary year has begun or not. That is not the case now. We have not received an introductory statement today, unlike the press. Today we have the opportunity to say what we thought about it, which, in general, already happened last week. I do not think this is right for our committee and in general for Parliament and for Parliament. Minister, I have a number of more precise questions on various issues, including the pennies. We have often discussed the Cayman tax. It was budgeted at 120 million euros six months ago. To pay the tax shift, this was raised to 460 million euros, i.e. almost four times. There must be some heavy reason to do so. Can you explain that? I don't follow the sugar tax very well either. Apart from the fact that we are the only country in the world to levy a sugar tax on non-sugary products, which in itself is bizarre, this sugar tax, as Mr Van Biesen says, is a health tax of the N-VA, which is intended to improve people's health. If we are to achieve efficiency, then it is the intention that the proceeds of that sugar tax/health tax should be reduced in the following years. But what do I see? You will apply for 2016 for the sugar tax/health fee 50 million euros, by 2018 150 million euros and by 2020 250 million euros. Explain that to me. If people are really not going to buy certain products because this is important for their health, then the income should be reduced. If income increases, this means that it is just a tax increase and then you have to say it and not call it a health tax. Just call it a tax increase that people have to pay. The amounts involved in the fight against fraud should also be explained to me. I remember how, in the first six months, we discussed with your predecessor, Secretary of State, Mr Sleurs, that the government's ambitions in the fight against fraud were, in our view, low. She then referred to 75 million euros in revenue per year. In the past period of government, John Crombez, as a fraud fighter, was not talking about estimates in a budget, but about what was effectively brought into the fight against tax fraud. This amount was much higher. The level of ambition of Mrs Sleurs and this government was and is, in our view, far too low. At the time, she repeatedly said in this committee that she was using a real budget and did not take up the budget. Now I suddenly find that this amount, Minister, is a multiple of the amount at the time. Does this mean that Mrs Sleurs was mistaken at that time or that you are mistaken? Or is it just about an operation that's pretending there's money you need to pay for the tax shift? If you do not collect these amounts, you will, of course, have a considerable problem in the budget. I'll come to the speculation tax. When I heard Mr Deseyn earlier, I thought this might be a measure of CD&V after all. Or isn't it? Mr. Secretary, who put this on the table? I have heard Mr Deseyn say that this is a measure which ensures that capital gains tax can be used. Has the impact of the reform of the personal income tax been assessed on the Länder and local authorities? Was this discussed with the states? What are the consequences for the Länder and local authorities? I have also seen that the VVSG, the Vlaamse Vereniging van Cities en Gemeenten, apparently asked you whether or not the reduction in the employer's contribution to 25% applies to the contractual staff of the municipalities. In its newsletter, the VVSG states that no answer has yet been given to that question. You've entered the carat tax before. How's that going? Have you received a reply from the European Commission on this matter? This is getting so urgent because you had added some EUR 50 million to your budget in this area. The longer the European Commission's ruling is delayed, the more uncertain these amounts become. Mr Minister, I now come to the question of tax regularisation. We have had serious discussions here about your instruction, which you will remember. We had the feeling, the idea and even the certainty that this instruction is a new regularization. We disagree on that. If the instruction you defended at that time was so important and intended that black capitals that still enter could still tax and ensure that they enter, why is there still a need for regularization? Please explain that to me. Nor is it clear to me in the budget where the proceeds from the instruction are and where the proceeds from the regularisation are. I have the notifications on the basis of your budgetary control and the 2016 budget, where tax and social regulations indicate an amount of EUR 111 million, which is now being raised to EUR 184 million. Since this is mentioned under regularizations, does this mean the regularisation of the previous government, or does that amount refer to your instruction? That's not clear to me. If it's not about your instruction, where does that amount come from? The amount will be increased by more than EUR 70 million. I would have liked some clarification on that. My final question concerns the redesign of the civil service, for EUR 500 million. So you need a lot of money to pay the tax shift. I assume that this amount is not wet fingering, but that the estimate of EUR 500 million is based on something. That is why I would have liked to know where this government sees this redesign that should pay EUR 500 million. Mr President, so far I have had my doubts and my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u50	I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u51	Mr President, I will share the time with my colleague, Mr Calvo. As I said, we regret that we had to wait three months before we could interview the minister. We also regret the absence of the Budget Minister, since tax revenues do not match the government's forecast. This is fundamental information that we have received most recently. Either, there was a voluntary over-evaluation. Either there is a deterioration in the functioning of our economy, as a result of the economic measures you have taken. It deserves to be analysed. Yesterday, the Minister of Budget or her cabinet said: "We never hid that certain measures had yet to be funded. Decisions therefore still need to be taken. This reinforces our feeling since 21 July that the decisions that have been announced with great publicity are not really decisions. There have been so many different points of view in the majority leader – still today with regard to the assessment and precision of decisions – that it is really problematic that the Budget Minister should not be present. Perhaps the Minister of Finance will be able to speak on these specific issues that I will put forward. We have expressed our views on this exercise, which I refuse to qualify as a tax shift. This is not a tax turn. Minister, at the end of the past legislature, we have had hearings and we have had a lot of debate about the tax shift concept. What is a tax shift? It is a zero-sum game, which preserves tax revenues for the state and moves taxation to free up the capacity to create jobs, which is very positive on the principle and has an effect on the environment, on the problems of pollution and climate change that should be of greater concern to us. As ecologists, we have made proposals in this direction, in particular to aggregate income from a tax point of view, to consider income from capital as income from labour in order to be able to reduce taxes on labour by ensuring solid alternative financing of social security. Members of the majority claim that today we are facing a shift tax. That's not the truth. This is not a tax shift. Not only is there no real transfer to income from capital or to behaviour harmful to health or the environment, but the account is not good. There's no transfer. Why? For, in the alternative revenue column, you indicate a series of things that are not taxation of capital. Taxing intercommunals has been mentioned. You are quoting additional efforts in the fight against tax evasion, but this should be independent of a tax shift. We have been asking since 2007 to empower your tax administration, but it is not possible to consider that because of the fight against tax fraud, we are reducing taxes. The same applies to the Diamant tax and the Cayman tax, which we have already discussed. There is no transfer in this component. As far as the other side is concerned, the account is not good. There is no balance between the two scales of the balance, between the tax advantages and the compensatory revenues announced. You are distorting the calculation, trying to make citizens and parliamentarians forget about other economic measures that you have already carried out that hit citizens hard, especially the billions of euros at the level of the SNCB, the billions of savings in social security hard hitting a part of the public weakened. You're talking about a redesignation of the public service. How will all the savings you want to achieve in the public service be translated into action? Mr Deseyn, I would like to welcome the fact that justice is better computerized. This project has been under way for 20 years and, obviously, it does not work. I take an example that is topical: you have decided to deprive justice of a large number of its labour forces, and today, those who are litigants cannot be tried within a reasonable time. When it comes to tax fraud, we are unable in Belgium to achieve concrete results in a case of major tax fraud. So there is an imbalance, which is predicting future deficits, which is predicting new future economies that will hit citizens hard. We are actually in favour of a real tax shift, but with trays that are balanced, and solid recipes. I come to the specific questions, Minister, so that we can have a debate after this introduction. The aim of this budgetary operation would be to create more jobs in Belgium, which we want. In relation to this job creation, can you, on behalf of the government, set a number of jobs that you want to achieve? Is it possible to put it against the social contributions that have been decided, which would allow us, Minister, to calculate a cost of your measures per job created. You want more efficiency in economic intervention. It is important for us to be able to measure whether, with the amount you spend on these reductions in social contributions, it would not be possible to do otherwise and more effectively. I will ask the Minister of Employment a specific question concerning the social maribel in the non-market sector. I read yesterday that Mr Vandeurzen, a member of a federal majority party, was concerned that reductions in social contributions would not affect the non-profit sector. Have you deliberately ignored sectors that are job-creating but also creating services to citizens? I sum up: what ambition in terms of employment? What cost? What ratio of cost per job created? I now turn to the health and environmental aspects. That's a question I'm going to be digging with the Minister of Health. What is the impact on public health since some members of the majority want to call it gezondheid tax? I'd rather talk about the Maggie tax. What is the government's expected impact in terms of reducing the consumption of sodas and sweet drinks, which are problematic for health? With tobacco excises, I think you chose, like others before you, the mild poison. That is, the minimum increase having a budgetary impact on revenue but not an impact on problematic behaviour. You are trying to hide a tax by public health goals, but it will be the responsibility of the citizens. Similarly, you are announcing measures on fuel taxation. It's already decided. We will not discuss it this afternoon. However, we were ready to do so with you regarding diesel. You leave aside, and that is a characteristic of our country, the problem of corporate cars. Some workers need a car to work. Others receive cars rather than receive wages. A large part of these would prefer to receive salaries rather than corporate cars. These company cars have an environmental impact on public health via fine particles, but also a significant economic impact on the mobility problems they cause. Why didn't your government, in the context of this tax shift, agree to discuss company cars? Does either party refuse to put this question on the table and try to find a more modern way of considering mobility? As part of a shift tax, it had its place. We must also ask ourselves what is not in it. I now come to the tax on capital gains, which makes me laugh. If we compare the speech of Mr Deseyn who is delighted with a first step and that of Mr Bogaert - both members of the same party - according to which there is no taxation of capital gains, it is absolutely extraordinary! But let's look at the amounts! A first announced tax on capital gains will bring us a revenue of 34 million euros. If we compare to the Maggie tax which will bring about 300 million, we see a proportion of one to ten, while Belgium is one of the few countries in Europe, if not the only one, not to impose capital gains. There are elements in the press. We have not discussed it yet. Why did you choose this six-month term? Does a person who sells a financial product with surplus value after six months and one day have a less speculative behavior than the one who does it one day earlier? Why didn't you target the companies? You offer a possibility of avoiding the tax that is extraordinary! Why not aim at speculation behaviors that are absolutely problematic from an economic point of view, such as buying options or other possibilities, especially in the context of high-frequency trading. What is your calculation to estimate this new recipe at $34 million? This would merit specific explanations that would allow us to assess the quality of the exercises you performed. In addition, you are announcing a new round of tax regularization. But what an admission of impotence in view of your other competence alongside that of finance, namely the fight against tax fraud! You are going to do so like previous governments: to give those who have defrauded the ability to get out of it at a lower cost, while we are announcing at the international level - we still had hearings yesterday - a much more effective exchange of information between States. If your tax administration were simply equipped with sufficient human and technological resources, this money could come back naturally. What are the conditions that you are going to offer to those who have deceived and would like to regularize their situation? Unlike previous governments, will you be interested in the origin of capital and not just the income it has generated? Will a progressive penalty be put in place to encourage the citizens concerned to regularize their situation? That would require technical explanation. But if you think that this is structural compensation for the tax cuts you have decided, you are wrong! As regards the social and redistributive nature of the tax cuts you have announced, you should clearly explain to us what is the fate of those who today do not earn enough to pay tax: workers, a very large part of the beneficiaries and mainly pensioners. They will not benefit from the measure, when they were hit by an index jump that produced its effects for the first time in July. They lost 2% of their income. Wage indexation, Mr Bogaert, is not a wage increase but a compensation for the increase in the cost of living. It's a compensation, just to maintain the same ability to heal, warm up, feed. Under a Belgian system, it is a simple compensation. Pensioners had to pay for this index jump somewhere as early as July. Moreover, they are not affected by the increase in deductible flat-rate charges. You claim that the measure is social, but you have clearly left out a large part of our citizens. Explain to us what the impact is for those who do not pay tax because they do not earn enough. Why didn't you target them if the goal was to rebalance incomes for them? Finally - I have many other things to say, but I will leave the floor to Mr Calvo - what is the impact on the regions and on the communes? I am not going to defend the Regions at all costs. I think that, thanks to the reform of the state, they have the capacity to organise taxes better. They refuse to do so, in any case at the level of the Walloon Region. But we must be clear: the measures that you decide reduce the revenue of the Regions and the municipalities and you carry the costs over to others. We will probably be witnessing, in the communes, an increase in the additions to the communes, for example. For citizens, the tax cuts you have decided on will also be offset. The result will be a zero sum game. In the context of a federalism of cooperation, it seems to us that, also at this level, you hide the truth. I shall end there and give the floor to Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like briefly to take advantage of the time left by Mr Gilkinet and the speaking time allocated to me on the basis of my oral question. I would also like to highlight a number of positive measures in this forum, which I did last week from the Chair. Of course, I am thinking of the tax reduction on labour and, more particularly, of purchasing power measures for self-employed workers and measures for first-time workers. Minister, I would also like to say a few words about the advertising website you launched yesterday. For someone who is new to the profession, it shows quite a bit of political feeling, in order to launch a campaign in this way. However, I would like to ask you to call the designers of the website to order in order to tell the full truth on that website as of today. My fellow Members who have already gone to the trouble of surfing to www.mytaxshift.be find that the government there is telling the good news and giving people the opportunity to simulate the reduction in the burden on labour. However, there is not a word on mytaxshift.be about the other measures which also intervene hard and decisively in the life and purchasing power of people working, of families and of people who are forced to benefit. Congratulations on campaigning, Minister. I will certainly also ask a question about the cost. However, please do it honestly. Either on the existing website, or on the existing website and for that you may be able to work with your Flemish colleagues on a second website: www.mijninvoicen.be. Anyway, be honest. In addition to the criticism of a lack of justice and insufficient greening, I would also like to express a fundamental criticism, which has been less noticeable in recent times, generally but perhaps also in our discourse. I am talking about the lack of that in the exercise. As far as we are concerned, the tax shift is a missed opportunity, because it is actually just more barracks being built and our taxation is only becoming more complex with the exercise. That is a third fundamental criticism, in addition to the fact that it is not Operation Justice, nor the necessary greening. Nor is it the desired simplification. On the contrary, it becomes even more complex. So much for a number of fundamental remarks. I would now like to ask a few more specific questions, firstly about the speculative tax. An agreement was reached on this last week. Could you give us a little more detail on that? What will be the perimeter of the speculation tax? What falls in, what doesn't fall in? I also learn from the media that a perimeter has been determined and that there would also be a royal decision to judge. That may be a political skill to let CD&V and Open Vld save their faces in the matter, but the question arises as to whether working with a KB is a good practice. That criticism was also raised in certain media. Can you tell us anything about the M.O.? I have a second specific question. Can you indicate what is in the EUR 2.4 billion capital tax and what is not? It's about time. At mytaxshift.be, 50 percent of the government's tax truth, I read that non-work income and tax fraud are therefore below. But in the presentation of the Prime Minister, two weeks ago, there was EUR 2.4 billion in capital tax and also the fight against fraud. What is in the 2.4 billion euros? Only then can we discuss honestly what is actually capital tax and what is not. On the site I read a lot of things that, as far as we are concerned, cannot be included in the concept of capital tax. So what's in the 2.4 billion euros? Is that exclusive or includes tax fraud? Thirdly, as regards the employer's contribution, can you provide us with an overview of the impact of the reduction in the employer's contribution per deciel? A number of figures were mentioned for a number of income profiles, but not for all. The full information on this would be interesting. The reduction is more focused on low incomes and middle incomes than on high incomes, which is a good thing in itself. Our group would have preferred this to be more focused, exclusive and pronounced on the 50% lowest income. A proposal on the progressive employers' contribution could have been even more targeted, in line with earlier recommendations. Fourthly, can you gradually make the full information available on the EUR 100? Our group has noted that the implementation of the measure has evolved. The Prime Minister first announced a hundred euros for everyone from 2016. Now the story is very different. Perhaps you could make that transparent for our committee. Fifth, there is the VAT reduction for school buildings. A colleague of your party has asked questions about this in the Flemish Parliament. Will the measure be accepted by Europe, yes or no? There are a lot of people involved in the measure. What is your assessment of the matter? It is one of your party that has created uncertainty about that. Sixthly, there is the consultation with the regions on the pluses and the minuses for them in the exercise. What's the status there? So far, my specific questions, in addition to my general observation that the tax shift is inadequate in many respects, and that the campaign could have been a lot fairer, just like the tax shift, which, as far as we are concerned, should have been a lot fairer and fairer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u53	Mr President, first of all, I did not want to enter the procedural debate that took place at the beginning of our meeting. This is not the kind of debate I like. In addition, I agreed in principle with the proposal that you made that seemed reasonable to me. Moreover, it must be noted that the debate we are debating is of good quality, in any case in the light of the statements made by the members of this committee who have spoken so far. Having said that, I would like to regret that it took three months to discuss the tax shift in this chamber. The responsibility of the chairman of this committee must certainly not be called into question. But it is in all objectivity that I would like to point out that there is a problem in terms of parliamentary working methods, since my remarks will be heard by many outside observers. I am thinking in particular of the students, whom I would like to thank in passing, who are interested in our debates and our work. It is somewhat problematic that a committee responsible for finance and the budget should wait three months to be able to discuss an issue that has already been raised widely, particularly in the press via various government communications. I also regret, without wishing to proceed with a trial of intent, that this committee cannot have a formal note tabled by the government. We have to rely on the information that the government has been willing to provide to the press. I believe that this method of work is not very modern. I would have preferred the Minister of Finance to provide us with a dossier containing all the elements so that we could have a substantive discussion that is not parasitized by all media channels or, at the very least, an introductory statement. This would have been only normal. Indeed, I understand that this is how it happens at all levels of power (municipal, provincial, etc.).). But, curiously enough, this was not the way that was chosen since it was first in the press that the debate took place, and that the Members of the Finance Committee were forced to run after the minister in order to try to ask their questions. I would like to congratulate Mrs Wilmès because, since our last meeting, she has changed her place in this committee. While I am pleased for her, I cannot help but point out that this ministerial change is the second in the government within the scope of our jurisdiction. A few months ago, the Secretary of State for the Fight against Tax Fraud was relieved of her duties; they were taken over by the Minister of Finance. Recently, it was the Budget Minister who was, in a way, exfiled from the government so that he could pursue a career on another path. These two changes in less than a year are indicative signals of a certain float. I will not go into detail in a football comparison because it could be controversial, but if two players have to leave the field after 15 or 20 minutes of play, that's the sign that it's gone wrong and that the team is not well stabilized! I hope that the Minister of Finance, in his role in the fight against tax fraud, will be fully involved in this fight. I also hope that the new Minister of Budget will give greater satisfaction in the exercise of her powers. I can't help but mention this float that the majority recognizes, in a way, by changing the ministerial casting in the competencies that occupy us. I also had the same feeling of floating last week when I heard the debate about the Prime Minister's return declaration. It seems to me that things are not entirely clear in the minds of this majority. There is not much consistency and there is still some inconsistency. I give you two examples. I believe that the diagnosis made by the government and its majority on the real state of our economy should be further developed. The Prime Minister told us that, overall, things are moving in the right direction. There was no complacency. He nevertheless rejoiced at a whole series of advances, which he felt were in the right direction. At the same time, he said that in terms of growth, our country is below the European average. There's something ambiguous about this. It would seem important to me that the government clarify its analysis of the country's economic situation, particularly with regard to our competitors or neighbouring countries, as this should determine the general message that the government wants to convey. Are the indicators going back to the right level or are we still in a negative situation in our country's economic situation? Then, I was somewhat overturned to hear in the head of the president of the francophone group the majority of the comments which, in the end, let us foreshadow a kind of return from the heart. Mr. Ducrame has consistently praised the government's action in favour of purchasing power. It seemed to me to be the priority of the moment. He pointed out after the Prime Minister how important this €100 cheque was to purchasing power. The minister spoke of the thirteenth month. Significant amounts are put on the table in terms of purchasing power. At times, Mr.Ducarme suggested that this government was doing things that would have been impossible with the Socialist Party, as if we were more left-wing. By turning right, it seems that this government is a little on the left. Back from the heart a few months after holding the Martens-Gol speech, since the beginning of the legislature was still marked by a tone clearly linked to austerity with the index jump, this emblematic measure that brought us back in the 1980s. We were in an analysis more marked by the desire to pursue a policy of austerity, because the situation justified it, like taking dark cuts in the various departments. There is a kind of one-to-one between, on the one hand, the rigorous and austerity approach which the government wanted to make its mark on and, on the other hand, this redistributive discourse in favour of purchasing power, as if in a few months we had passed from Martens-Gol to the return of the heart. This is where the government's lack of credibility and the public's lack of confidence in this tax shift lies. We have the impression that we are saying a little everything and its opposite. As a result, the population, which is not so stupid as that, has the impression that they are being told a lot of bullshit and that advertising is false. This eagerness to advertise via this website is indicative of this desire to make an almost electoralist speech since we want to convince the citizen that he will win it at all costs. The citizen, however, is not deceived. He knows that the check you give him, whatever the amount, he pays him. He has already paid it for the first time with the measures taken at the beginning of the legislature, in particular with the index jump. We can't deny it. It was clearly an amputation of purchasing power, the means of consumption of the population. He pays it a second time with the rain of taxes you decree. I am not going to list them here, but whether they are diesel excises, soda tax, or the increase in VAT on electricity, we see that the consumer is called upon to pay what the taxpayer could possibly gain. I can't help but think that the consumer is the taxpayer and the taxpayer is the consumer! What you claim to give is in fact only what the citizen himself has paid you. I am sure that the people are all the more suspicious because they expect to have to pay this check a third time because in terms of budgetary balance, we are far from the account. Clearly, new measures are to be expected that will fall on the population's back as future budget work and conclaves continue. It may no longer be the consumer who will then be called to the caisse, but the citizen as justiciable for example. The cost-saving measures that will continue to prevent the justice system from functioning properly will be reflected in the service that is rendered to the litigants. The economic measures imposed on SNCB, which are at the origin of this week's social movements, will inevitably have consequences for the citizen when he is a commuter or when he uses public transport. So people are not fools. They know that they have already paid, that you are calling them to pay again and that they will pay again later. How could it be otherwise? How can I believe for a second that your cheque is a real gift? However, unless I am mistaken, we are still in a deficit budgetary position. Unless I've understood anything, there's no margin, no cake to spread. We are facing a deficit outlook. So, what you're giving, you have to get it somewhere. This structural deficit must be filled. You yourself suggested that it was more difficult to fill than you had imagined. Indeed, VAT revenues are not entirely up to what you had expected. Company advance payments are also far from the original estimates. There is also a sense of imprecision, of very imperfect control over budgetary impacts. All this leads the public to think that anyway, it is she who is going to go to the caisse and that the good news that you are trying to sell to her with great communication reinforcement or on the websites, is not really it. In fact, they are simply hiding additional efforts that will be required of each other. Let me also say that this lack of credibility is an obvious fact when the issue of capital taxation is addressed. It is still great to see this right-wing government give the impression that it really is attacking capital and that it has been bolder than any government before. You announce 2.4 billion capital-related revenues by objectively putting a little bit of everything in it: taxation on intercommunals, the diamond tax – God knows if this diamond tax is not a tax aimed at hitting big capital – the Cayman tax, by increasing its yield. For this last tax, we would really like to have accurate calculations, updated estimates. How can this famous Cayman tax introduce a yield of 430 million euros, if my memory is good? Where are the chiffes? What are the new elements that lead you to review the estimate that you presented and argued here? It would be useful if you presented us with a small file so that the figures you are announcing can regain some credibility. The same applies to the expected return in the fight against speculation. Frankly, there is nothing to boast about the €28 million that has gone up to €34 million. In view of the amounts we are talking about, it is peanuts! It is not with this that you will make the people believe that you are engaged in a resolute struggle against speculation. Some partners in the majority have accepted this measure, probably because it is not likely to cut them off from their electoral clientele and is simply a sign-posting phenomenon without any real effect. It seems to me that there is also a lack of credibility, unless you provide us with more evidence, regarding the fight against tax fraud, which is one of the major sources of funding for your tax shift. You are now announcing a return of about 525 million, if I am not mistaken. But where is the plan that would justify these amounts? It is my understanding that in the government's budgetary debates, it was envisaged that the Minister of Finance would table a plan to combat tax evasion at the beginning of Parliament. Is that your intention, minister? What will be in this plan that would allow us to give a little credit to this amount of $525 million? Objectively, the Prime Minister did not say much about this in his speech last week. He has announced additional recruitment, which is again a contradiction since the message of reducing government spending, including personnel, is constantly being conveyed, and there is a regular exit from one-off recruitment, as if it would help to obtain the figures you are announcing in the fight against tax fraud. What is more certain is that you will give a permanent character to the regularization operation. I am afraid that this would discredit a little the objectives that you have set out in this issue. I would also like to hear from you, Minister, on what is presented as the government's main objective; the objective of creating jobs is obviously unanimous. Everyone agrees on the need to do everything possible to create employment. And you might even think that the tax shift you put on the table is going to create jobs. A priori, it may be assumed that measures, in particular to reduce contributions and hence the cost of wages, will have a positive effect in this respect. To say that there is going to be job creation, as the Prime Minister does, is good, but if that is really the major goal, the ambition that justifies the whole tax shift, we would still like some more convincing and convincing data. Frankly, I find the method used by this government surprising to say the least. You made decisions about the tax shift, claiming that their ultimate goal was job creation. Then, after deciding, you sent a letter to the Planning Office asking for an estimate of the impact of the measures taken. I feel a little like you're working backwards. We decide first and then we evaluate the impact. I want to believe that in the discussions within the government, you still had projections of the impact in terms of job creation compared to the different scenarios you worked on. Or, you've been working blindly to make your decisions, especially the one for the €100 target. That's how I feel when I hear that we're going to go to the Planning Office and other agencies to get an evaluation. Objectively, I would find that these assessments are prerequisites for decision-making and that they are shared among us. This would give more credibility to the measures you are taking, it would give objectives that would seem to be more substantiated and it would allow us, as a majority, to monitor the real impact of these measures. Will the results meet the objectives? This is the b.a.-ba in terms of public policy evaluation, but it can only be done if the objectives are clearly stated. Here, in terms of job creation, the objectives are evanescent. Apart from the somewhat magical formula "jobs, jobs, jobs", what are the numerical objectives? It would be good if you could communicate them to us, otherwise it will be difficult to claim that your policy has achieved its objectives. In the same vein, I would also like to ask you about how you assessed the return effects of this tax shift. Unless I am mistaken, the amount of EUR 900 million related to these returns is reported. Are they the result of job creation? If so, I guess there's a calculation back there. How many jobs are there? What will be the impact on the state budget? If you want to give a little substance to these return effects and make it not just a kind of magic thought, you should give us documents, figures, tables, arguments allowing us to verify how you calculated them. Other colleagues have also expressed concerns about a federal loyalty that must prevail in tax matters. How do you interact with other levels of government about your tax policy? Undoubtedly, there is an impact on the regions and municipalities. The former came as far as they could to denounce the lack of consultation. The Unions of Cities and Municipalities also express their concern. Moreover, the amounts are not negligible: according to the figures of the FPS Finances, 915 million for the Regions and 264 million for the municipalities. What is your position in this regard? Do you consider that other levels of authority need to be managed and that, if they wish, they can themselves increase their revenues or additional revenues and take back what would have been granted to the taxpayer? Or do you incorporate a form of compensation into your approach to the government's fiscal trajectory? In order to consolidate the Belgian house and federalism - including budgetary and fiscal matters - these important issues need to be discussed before decisions are taken. Obviously, this has not been the case. I understand that the consultations took place after that. This is probably a sign of the good will of the new Budget Minister. That being said, beyond a courtesy meeting, it seems to me important that you can tell us how you analyse the impact of your own decisions on the regional and communal levels. I'd also like to hear from you about the excise duty on sodas. Maybe Mrs De Block will answer me. From a fiscal point of view, do you have an impact assessment on cross-border trade. Indeed, it is quite tempting for the inhabitants of our small country to go and get supplies abroad. Have you considered this bias in your choice? How will you measure the success of this measure? Is the objective budgetary or public health? Finally, I will express regret and concern. This tax shift does not apply to notional interests. However, if we want to work towards a flattening of the tax system, we cannot honestly ignore an assessment of the cost of notional interests and their effects, if not perverse, at least induced. Indeed, it would have been possible to have had less impact on the consumer, the citizen. I therefore regret that we did not want to touch this "sacred cow". Finally, Minister of Finance, I would like to express my concern about our tax system. By removing the tax rate at 30%, you are undoubtedly putting a blow to tax escalation in Belgium. I fear that with this kind of measure, we end up moving towards an increasingly dual tax system with the effects of significant steps. For my part, I believe that tax escalation is part of the quality of a tax system. We are far from other tax systems here. I am thinking, among other things, of the one in force in Luxembourg. This is a fundamental question as to the structural development of the tax system, in particular as a result of the tax shift you are proposing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u54	Mr President, first of all, I would like to say a word about the simulator, the website montaxshift.be set up by the minister. In my opinion, this is a false site – I have no other terms to qualify this site. Indeed, as you explained, minister, the application of a shift tax is to increase certain taxes and reduce others. But here, you can only see one side of the medal. Minister, could you tell me how much this site cost? How is it funded? With regard to the timing of the said tax shift, there is a feeling, minister, that this government is implementing certain measures very quickly. An amendment to increase excise duties was tabled at the last plenary session. When it comes to taxing the population, things go very fast! On the other hand, other measures should only become effective at the end of the legislature. Minister, do you not think that this so-called tax shift suffers from an imbalance? Given the budgetary slippages or repeated budgetary adjustments on very large sums that took place in the first year, do you think that, if this continues, you will be able to finance the positive tax shift measures in 2017 and 2018? Aren't you going to say it's no longer possible? The taxes will have been paid, but you will not have the means to give the gifts promised in compensation. I'm going to the tax escalation. With regard to a shift tax, which is presented by the government as a measure to improve the tax system, I have never heard of tax escalation, which is one of the essential criteria for judging the nature of a tax system. Have you conducted a study measuring the impact of the tax shift on the overall progressivity of our tax system? Have you analysed the impact on the progressivity of personal tax, taken in isolation, and the impact on the overall progressivity of our Belgian tax system? It is necessary to do this kind of exercise when implementing tax reforms that cover billions of euros. With regard to the progressive taxation of natural persons, you seem to say that the lower incomes will benefit more than the higher incomes. However, I remember a tax reform that had been imagined by Didier Reynders when he was Minister of Finance, but was never carried out. It had launched the idea of a tax reform of reducing tax brackets from five to three, by merging the 25 and 30 per cent tranches and the 40 and 45 per cent tranches. It's finally quite similar to what you're proposing in the tax shift. Reynders at the time had calculated the impact of this tax reform, which was never implemented. The highest incomes were the major beneficiaries. The 10 per cent of the richest taxpayers would benefit from a third of these tax gifts. The 50 per cent of the least affluent taxpayers would benefit from 15 per cent. The reform clearly benefited the rich. To the extent that your tax rate reform is quite similar, I wonder how you can come to the conclusion that the lowest income will benefit from it. It is quite logical that if the tax scales are changed, someone who is in high income and whose marginal taxation is within 50%, taking advantage of all the changes in the scale, will necessarily take full advantage of it. He'll benefit more than someone who's half of it. Can you explain this mystery to me? In addition, what is the impact of the shift tax on persons whose income is not subject to taxation by natural persons such as the minorxes, the unemployed and some of the pensioners? Some pensioners pay tax. Those who do not pay taxes do not benefit from these measures but will pay taxes on consumption. Those who are taxed do not benefit from the reduction of professional burdens. On the other hand, they have seen their tax bill increase for personal tax as there has been a non-indexation of reductions in replacement income. The increase in consumption taxes is a particularly unfair measure; I have already had the opportunity to say so to the first. Moreover, with regard to taxes on consumption, economist Piketty speaks of taxes of the nineteenth century. This taxes everyone in a uniform way. There's no progressivity. Why reduce the return on personal tax, which remains a little progressive, to increase a tax that is not? Why reduce a fair tax to increase unfair taxes? This is a question that cannot be avoided in terms of progressivity. Your alibi of preserving health and the environment through the so-called free choice of the taxpayer to be subject to a tax or not, I do not know whether to laugh at it or mourn it, but it is an old technique that previous governments have also used. We will remember the health index, which you once again manipulated with the index jump, which meant that we were going to reduce the salary but that it was for the right cause, for health. You're doing it again! At the level of justification, it's quite weak, it's big strings that we've seen in the past! Besides, they're things that don't hold up. If this has a real impact on the environment and health, then it implies a change in people's behaviour and, in this case, the budget revenues you had planned fall. Either it will cure health and the environment, or it will cure the budget, but it will not cure both at the same time! As far as capital taxation is concerned, it's still a big joke from the government! It seems essential to remind me that a part of the social and trade union movement that emerged at the end of 2014 and that is recovering today, after a demonstration that brought together 100,000 people, was claiming tax justice. For the workers of the country, tax justice is a tax on large capital, a tax on millionaires. This tax is supported by the majority of the population; it is seen in the surveys. Minister, I have already had the opportunity to tell you that the voters of the N-VA also support the idea of taxation of major assets. Tax justice means taxing the richest 1 or 2 per cent of the population. As an option, if it really doesn't pass, we can make a tax on market capital gains. But then, you have to really tax them, not like the ridiculous tax you created and called "speculation tax". Tax justice could also have been a review of all these aberrant advantages enjoyed by multinationals. Each year, the PTB sets the Top 50 tax rebates and the Top 1000 of the largest profits. The ridiculous nature of our tax rates is thus demonstrated. On the other hand, these tax gifts granted to the thousand companies with the highest profits in Belgium are such that they pay 5, 6 or 7%, depending on the tax years, instead of the 34% official ones, while 70% of their profits are redistributed to their shareholders in the form of dividends. In other words, a small portion is redirected to the community, while the largest part is directed to shareholders. Your speculation tax is expected to generate 34 million revenue against 100 billion euros of stock exchange transactions in Brussels. I mean, you're not going to tax the rich or fight speculation. You count the new tax amnesty – DLU quater – in tax revenues. I claim that it does not earn money, but it costs money. Perhaps in the short term you can earn some tax revenue, but in the long term it is a signal to fraudsters: "Belgium is one of the highest fraud countries in Europe, but it is no big deal: continue to fraud. If, for one reason or another, you need to regularize your situation, you can do so." The level of tax evasion will therefore be increased. The diamond tax and the Cayman tax are other forms of tax amnesty. By doing so, the fraudsters will be able to pay a little bit to be cleared. Also in the chapter of the taxation of capital, there is an increase in the deposit of furniture. I understand that my colleague Ahmed Laaouej is somewhat embarrassed to criticize such an increase. Perhaps he supported it, since the previous government had done the same thing. It can be seen as a taxation of capital, but in a formal way. In reality, it is rather a tax on small capital. In this area, the problem is the same as for VAT. This tax is proportional and not progressive, due to the lack of a globalisation of income. This pre-payment for furniture is liberating. It is still a fundamental problem. A pensioner who is already affected several times by your system and who would have some cash vouchers, state bonds, Sicavs or what I still know, will be affected by this furniture discount still revised upwards. She's going to pay the same percentage as someone else who has much higher incomes. She will also pay while the great fortunes of this country – I think Albert Frère – will not pay anything with this increase of money discount. Why? Because their fortunes are accumulated in societies. Through the RTD system, the dividends go back to the umbrella companies and they will be able to accumulate without ever paying a euro of savings. It is therefore totally wrong to say that this is a taxation of capital. Especially if you think about the taxation of big capital! I am not going to go back to the issue of the intercommunals that would be part of capital. It is Mr. Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Van Rompuy, who cited this example as taxation of capital in the list he gave in plenary session. It's ready to laugh! Besides, it was to joke that I told the Prime Minister that the president of his party was a great capitalist since he had or had mandates in several intercommunals. Truly a joke, I would like above all to go back to the zero-rating of capital. The government says that capital has never been taxed so much. Above all, we have never offered a gift as important to capital as two billion reductions in so-called employer charges! As a reminder, twenty years ago, we were less than one billion in reductions in employer contributions. Today, there are six billion reductions in employer contributions. Today, at one time, two billion are offered. All the liberals, the right applaud. The old neoliberal theories saying that it is necessary to water the rich so that it runs over the entire population are serinized everywhere. All right, if we follow this concept but we can't both make such an important tax gift to capital and say that we taxed capital! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I repeat it loud and clear. That is the formula that is needed today. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u55	Yes, but you cut workers' wages! In a company, there is capital and labour. You reduce salary income and increase capital income. That's the reality. The true measure of the tax shift has nothing to do with the tax shift. That's the two-billion gift you give to the boss. In fact, Mr. Van Biesen said earlier that reductions in employer contributions were the most important. So, the most important measure of the tax shift - M. Van Biesen and I agree on this point - is a foreign measure to the tax shift: this gift to the bosses that ignores the citizen. In July, you made an important communication about tax shift not to parliament but to the media. This tax shift has also allowed us to hide all the budget savings that you are going to achieve at the expense of the sick, the unemployed, the social beneficiaries who will be seriously affected by a series of measures that you took in July, but which were obscured by your communication on the tax shift.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u56	On this one, you tell us something incredible: "Dear taxpayers, I give you a ticket of 100 euros" and at the moment when they want to take it, you say: "No, it's not now, you have to wait, but these 100 euros, it's not me who gives them to you, it's the Regions". When I make a gift, I assume, I give the gift entirely, I do not ask other people to offer it. Apparently, the federal government is calling on the Regions, without having asked them for their opinion. The announcement of these 100 euros is obviously a success at the level of communication. In fact, Mr. Minister of Finance, the figures you announced a few months ago were significantly lower. But the government has revised its communication. What about a household – I am not talking about those who are not subject to tax – with two full-time equivalents that earn 1,600 euros and 3,000 euros gross per month respectively. What increases and decreases will this household have? As an increase, it will have 1 069 euros for the various tax measures, the different tax advantages, especially via the PPI. But he will pay excise duties, all kinds of fees, indirect taxation for 432 euros. I point VAT separately on electricity: 138 euros. And there's the index jump, which we can't exclude from the tax shift if we include the increase in the lump sum charges, since you had presented these two measures as going hand in hand at the time. The index jump represents 1,288 euros decrease. In total, this household will not earn another 100 euros but lose 794 euros. At macro level, the observation is the same. All that concerns the taxation of natural persons, the social correction, the welfare envelope, is 3.8 billion more for the citizens. But with indirect taxes, index jump, it's 4 billion less – or more, says Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u57	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u58	Mr Laaouej says even more: 6.5 billion! You see that the PTB is moderate, finally. Not only is the addition negative, but we must add two elements: the 2 billion gifts to the bosses I mentioned and all the cuts you are going to make in the public services, which is also a cost to the population. You always say, "We're going to degrease the state, it's going to work better." No, I don't! You cut jobs, you cut service to the public. All of this also costs people, but in your rather narrow view, it doesn't work. Finally, this tax shift is a fairly classic gift operation to the boss, but coated in fog, with a smoke screen. You've been giving the same gifts to capital as other governments for twenty or thirty years, but even faster. You press the accelerator. For the social movement, this is obviously unacceptable. I don't have a crystal ball, but I'm telling you that the social movement is not close to extinguishing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u59	Colleagues, as far as our work is concerned, the minister tells me that he needs more than half an hour to answer the questions in detail. I think that is also the wish of the committee. I propose to conclude the discussion now. The minister will answer at 2:00 p.m. and all political groups will have the opportunity to reply. I think it's the best way to work. Secondly, we will still have to deal with a bill on the EU's own resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u60	Mr President, can we follow the rules set out in the agenda and deal first with the two draft laws, and then hear the answers on the tax shift? They are very short draft laws. If we can deal with them first, then there will be enough time to have the whole debate on the tax shift until tonight. Those bills have to go through today, too. That won't take much time. Once those bills are settled, there will be time until tonight to discuss the tax shift further.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u61	Mr President, I would like to reiterate once again that we have been calling for a debate in this committee on the tax shift for three months. Maybe now is the time to move forward. The logic, I believe, would be to hear the minister's answers at the beginning of the resumption of work, and then we will talk about the bills. This disrespect of Parliament must be stopped at some point! I take this opportunity, Mr. Chairman, because I forgot to ask a question to the Minister of Finance. Are stock options covered or not covered by the speculation tax? I would still like to get an answer, because it is a large volume of capital gains. I hope that this is included in the scope of the speculation tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u62	We must be realistic. We have had a debate. Everyone got a chance to give their opinion on the tax shift. We have given sufficient time to do so. Out of respect for Parliament and the Minister, I believe that the Minister should now be given the opportunity to reply. After that, we must also give the opportunity to replicate. We shall then deal with the draft bill, item 66 on the agenda. We won't reverse that order. I don't see what's so urgent about it that we should be dealing with it at 14:00. That would break the debate. We must take this into account, for the dynamics of the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u63	Mr President, you can of course take many initiatives, but there is an agenda for this afternoon and it starts with two draft laws. We shall begin with that. You did not ask for a majority to follow your proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic245x.u64	Mr Van Biesen, there is also something like the dynamics of a debate. It was planned that the minister could answer before 12:30. That is not the case now. We had to rearrange the work. We have given a great deal of speaking time to the political groups in order to be able to hold the debate on the substance. I insist that we continue with the Minister's reply and the replies at 14 a.m., and that we then deal with the draft law, which will not require much discussion. The sitting is closed. At 2:00 p.m. we will meet in the plenary session room, because Room 2 is too small to hold this afternoon's debates.
