ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u1	Madam President, Minister, on Friday 24 April 2015, a new trade in horse meat, which was allegedly organised mainly by two Belgians, was dismantled. The charges against this network relate to the falsification of passports of approximately 4,700 horsepower. This would have taken place between 2010 and 2013, resulting in the fraudulent entry of unfit meat into the food chain. Since these horses, originally intended for recreation, have at some point been able to ingest drugs and antibiotics in particular, it goes without saying that the dangers to the health of the consumer are not negligible. Minister, how can we explain that the passports of so many animals could have been falsified? What solutions are envisaged to make them less falsifiable? Has any thought been given to this matter? In addition, how could an activity of this magnitude - I would remind you that we are talking about 4,700 horsepower - have developed in the light of the existing framework? In this regard, can you tell us what AFSCA services are responsible for monitoring these activities, as well as the human and financial resources available to them?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u2	Madam President, my colleague, your question is obviously important. There are, however, elements that fall within the scope of the ongoing judicial investigation, conducted under the direction of Investigative Judge Connerotte of the Arlon Court. My answer must therefore be limited to those elements which, of course, are not part of the elements of the ongoing investigation. The falsification of horses' passports is intended to introduce horses into the food chain that were initially excluded from human consumption. This fraud takes place not only in Belgium but also in a number of other European Union countries. In these countries, European regulations are implemented in a way other than in Belgium, often in a less strict manner. Both in 2012 and 2013, the AFSCA informed the European Commission by mail of the problems encountered in the identification and registration of horses and drew attention to the lack of harmonisation of these laws in the different Member States, resulting in risks and fraudulent practices. In its 2013 letter, AFSCA stressed to the Commission the importance of prioritizing this issue in the specific Food Fraud Working Group that had been set up. In particular, this letter mentioned that the lack of uniformity of horses' passports used in other Member States and the lack of access to data banks in other Member States make it very difficult to check the effectiveness of horses introduced into Belgium. With regard to the European approach, which is particularly important in the fight against this form of fraud, I am pleased with the adoption of the new Regulation on the identification of equidae on 17 February 2015, which will enter into force on 1 January 2016. This Regulation reinforces control measures by introducing a new, more secure passport model, the obligation to exchange information between central data banks, and the possibility for the central veterinary authority to sanction any body that issues passports for equidae if it fails to comply with national and European rules. In Belgium, several meetings between representatives of the equine sector and the federal authorities have already been held in February, March and April 2015. A new draft royal decree is being prepared to supplement the provisions of European Regulation 2015/262 which I have just mentioned. The new measures will also apply from 1 January 2016. To answer your question then on the human, financial resources and the organisation of these specific controls, I can confirm that the fight against fraud is one of the important priorities that is not only taken up in the government agreement but also in the business plan of the managing director, recent business plan that I have just approved. Controls within this framework are carried out by the departments of the Control DG of the AFSCA, on the one hand, in slaughterhouses. Mission veterinarians carry out the ante-mortem expertise of all horses. On the other hand, beyond the strictly sanitary examination they systematically carry out, they also focus on the possible falsification of passports. These veterinarians have been trained in the detection of such passports as early as 2013 and, in case of doubt, can still draw on the expertise in this area from members of the National Investigation Unit (UNE). In the event of non-compliance, the UNE shall carry out a more in-depth investigation and make contact with colleagues from the countries concerned. In addition, for horses registered in Belgian data banks, the HOM must consult these banks and ensure that the status of the horse permits its slaughter, i.e. it is not excluded from the food chain. So there is a double check that must make fraud very difficult now. Within the UNE, 16 people deal with cases related to research, prevention and prosecution of fraud in relation to the food chain. Since 2009, this unit has developed expertise, among others, in the identification and registration of horses. In this context, various surveys have already been carried out. Assistance has already been provided to judicial services. This has led previously to various convictions before the courts. International contacts have also been established with several countries. This international collaboration and the help of judicial bodies, both national and international, as well as Eurojust at European level, enabled us to achieve the result we know at the end of April. Finally, I would like to stress the commitment of AFSCA in this area and I invite you to refer to the 2012 audit report by the Food and Veterinary Office (FVO) of the same European Commission. He mentioned that Belgium had already made very serious efforts at the time and even went beyond European obligations to register and identify horses, so that only the horses authorised for consumption were found in the food chain. These efforts have thus helped to identify a number of behaviours, including this highly detestable sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for this answer, we cannot be more comprehensive, detailed, structured and proactive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u4	Mrs. Lanjri is sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u5	Mr Minister, I had originally agreed to a question from Mrs Lanjri, but she is absent today. I must admit, I was shocked by the content of her question. The reason, which you will be aware of, is a decision of the OCMW of Antwerp to work with an advisory physician for urgent medical care. It is true that Belgium grants the right to urgent medical assistance to persons who are not legally resident in that territory. The implementing rules are laid down in the Royal Decree of 12 December 1996 and can also be found in the organic law of the OMCW in Article 57, § 2. One of the conditions to be fulfilled is that a doctor says that the concerns are urgent and medically necessary. It's done by an emergency certificate. If there is no emergency certificate, the costs shall not be reimbursed to the treating physician. In practice, some OCMWs, especially in cities, see questionable certificates being issued in some cases. In exceptional cases, this is about abuse and even a trade in it. Most of the time, however, it's just a kind of "wildness attestation', in which the prescriber is put under pressure by the patient. In certain cases, this pressure goes so far that it even comes to physical threats. It's not about incredibly many cases, but there are. Especially in large OCMWFs, this is often encountered. In order to combat these abuses, there are OCMWFs who use an advisory doctor, who can carry out a counter-expertise. In this way, OCMW's not only combat fraudulent practices, but also ensure that the support ends up with those who really need it, which has always been the intention, and they also take the pressure a little off the shoulders of some doctors. Parliamentary questions have already been asked about this in the past. In 2006, then Minister of Social Integration replied on this counter-expertise that the OMCW is also subject to the principle that only a physician can judge the urgency of medical assistance. However, if the granting OCMW has a presumption of abuse, this centre can always have a medical counter-expertise carried out in order to justify the aid application and the social research. That is why I have a few questions for you, Minister. Do you know how many OCMWFs already use an advisory doctor today? Is it true that the OCMW can always ask for a counter-expertise in case of doubt, but that many OCMWFs do not make use of this control option or do not make sufficient use of it? To what extent do you consider that the OCMWFs can use the medical counter-expertise in the context of urgent medical care? Isn't it true that according to the POD MI, which is the institution that inspects the OCMW's, there is nothing legally against this counter-expertise? What solutions can you offer to the OMCWFs who want to carry out their tasks carefully and develop an initiative that is simultaneously social and anti-fraud? Do you have other anti-abuse solutions and how can the OCMWFs be further supported? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u6	The first paragraph of Article 57 (2) of the Organic Law does indeed provide for urgent medical assistance for foreigners residing illegally on the territory. The costs of emergency medical care shall be borne by the Belgian State on condition that a certificate proving the urgency of the benefits in kind is submitted, in accordance with the Royal Decree of 12 December 1996 on urgent medical assistance provided by the OCMW to foreigners who are illegally resident in the Empire. The urgency of medical attention can only be assessed by a physician. Neither the OCMW nor the Belgian State can judge whether or not a medical provision is urgent. That power lies exclusively with the physician. In order to carry out the fundamental social research and in case of doubt, the OMCW is free to request a medical counter-expertise. This counter-expertise must of course be carried out by a physician. It is, after all, a doctor who determines whether the illness of the person concerned fits within the legal framework. The OMCW has no discretion in this regard. If, on the basis of the counter-expertise, the OMCW decides not to intervene in the cost of urgent medical care, the person concerned may appeal against that decision before the labour court. If the labour court considers it necessary, it may in turn appoint an expert. I regret that I do not have any figures on the number of legal proceedings initiated on this subject, nor on regional differences. The figures available to my services relate only to the actual repayments by the Belgian State of the aid granted by the OMCW. Nor do I have a list of OMCWFs using an advisory physician. I am aware that a number of OCMWFs in the major cities are making use of this opportunity. As far as my vision and policy is concerned, I would first of all like to stress the importance of the social research which the OMCW should always carry out and which will examine all aspects of the individual situation of the person concerned. On the basis of this study, the OMCW can make sound decisions. Of course, the OMCW is not intended to simply charge the unpaid invoices of the care provider. On the other hand, the principle of urgent medical assistance to persons without legal residence should be maintained. Since it is up to the medical expert to determine whether medical assistance is urgent, it seems to me appropriate, as mentioned in the coalition agreement, to clarify, in consultation with them, what is to be understood by the notion of "urgent character'. Furthermore, I would like to develop the project MediPrima, the computer system to automate payments and the data exchange between the providers of medical care and the OCMWFs. All urgent medical costs will in future be treated and paid by the Auxiliary Cash for Sickness and Invalidity Insurance. In addition to the administrative handling, the auxiliary cash also provides for control by an auditor. This makes a medical counter-expertise by the OCMW unnecessary and significantly facilitates the work of the OCMW. MediPrima is currently only accessible to hospitals, but the intention is to extend the program to general practitioners in the next phase. This phase is now being prepared.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u7	Minister, you have said a number of important things. In fact, the coalition agreement states that the notion of urgent medical assistance will be clarified. I think that's what needs to be done. You were talking about MediPrima. In the event of further enlargement, the advisory physician will indeed be able to play a role in this, without the OMCWs having to take that initiative themselves. I remember, in particular, that you confirm once again that what the OMCW of Antwerp is doing in the current situation is absolutely in accordance with the rules and even to encourage the appointment of an advisory physician. Mrs Lanjri is not here, but I note that this was yet another flash reaction in the press and nothing more than that. It is quite clear that what the OCMW of Antwerp is doing is actually a form of good governance, no more and no less.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u8	Question No 4267 by Mrs Gantois is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u9	Madam Chair, Minister, this is an important issue that we should all address. Rather than asking you in a global way, I prefer to start from an example that was given to me very recently, an example that is only one among others. Thus, a self-employed person is the victim of slanderous and defamatory denunciation. As a result of an anonymous complaint, the worker was subject to a review by the Federal Agency for Food Chain Safety (AFSCA). However, the complaint quickly turned out to be short since the complaint was found to have no correlation with the self-employed's main activity. In doing so, the AFSCA found that the complaint was found to be unfounded. Mr Minister, unfortunately this is not an isolated case, since every year more than 2,000 complaints have been identified as slanderous and defamatory complaints. Minister, how do you address the issue of the protection of self-employed workers in the event of slanderous denunciations, especially when they are defamatory? Can't measures be taken to avoid being faced with a completely abusive use of anonymous reports to the AFSCA? What are the possible remedies? Indeed, those who are the subject of abusive denunciation must be able to enforce their rights. To that end, it would be logical to set up a repair mechanism. Indeed, such denunciations may have significant consequences for unfairly challenged workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u10	The aim of AFSCA, Member of the Commission, is to ensure the safety of the food chain and to carry out its tasks taking into account the working conditions of the self-employed, the companies and the various actors involved in this monitoring mission. However, it cannot take the risk of not dealing with certain complaints on the sole ground that they are anonymous. Indeed, the AFSCA would fail in its mission by not intervening when it is aware of information, even anonymous, which may indicate the presence of a danger to the safety of the food chain. In this regard, it is well known that the justice system, itself seized of a number of anonymous information, examines its relevance in certain cases and in specific contexts and diligently carries out the investigative duties it considers necessary to carry out. As far as AFSCA is concerned, I would point out that there are different situations in which anonymous complaints are qualified. There are complaints that are anonymous for the AFSCA itself and there are other situations in which the complainant is known to the AFSCA but wishes to remain anonymous for a number of reasons. On the other hand, the proportion of well-founded and unsubstantiated complaints is similar when comparing anonymous complaints with those of which the applicant is known. There is therefore some of the complaints that are not well-founded, but the proportion between these two categories was of the same magnitude for 2014, according to the AFSCA. Having said that, I am indeed concerned about the element that you are raising. Indeed, if we have to allow people to express certain concerns, if necessary anonymously for various reasons, I do not wish that the controls of the AFSCA be instrumentalised for purposes unrelated to food safety. The number of complaints you cite as slanderous or even defamatory seems to me to be a matter of concern, if this figure is confirmed. Therefore, while ensuring that the AFSCA officers can carry out their duties by seizing the information provided to them, whatever the number, I intend to enter into a dialogue with the AFSCA Directorate-General to see how we can deal with repeated complaints by an intervenor or complaints of a manifestly slanderous nature, as soon as it appears that the author wanted to pursue purposes that have nothing to do with food security. Here, therefore, we must respect both the objectives of the AFSCA and other judicial provisions that may sometimes lead the AFSCA to denounce certain facts of any kind to the King's prosecutor in accordance with article 29 of the Code of Criminal Investigation. Denunciation in a manifestly slanderous and defamatory manner with the aim of harming is, it seems to me, an attitude likely to be reported to the King's prosecutor. There's a balance to be found. I intend to ensure that this balance is respected, since the aim is not to artificially and unjustly create difficulties for the self-employed, traders or SMEs affected by these unsubstantiated or unacceptably motivated controls.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u11	Minister, I hold your opening to try to go further. I agree with you that, of course, we must have and respect the balance between the interests involved, but at the same time, the desire to settle accounts, the misuses are totally unacceptable. I gave you the example of an independent, but it also affects businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises or TPEs. You targeted the two elements that hit me the most. On the one hand, the problem of repeated complaints and on the other hand, complaints of a slanderous nature. The difficulty is when it comes to complete anonymity. No one can, of course, detect these repeated, abusive or even slanderous complaints, since it is impossible to find the person responsible for these complaints. I have tabled a bill to that effect. We should no longer be able to have anonymous complaints that are admissible. On the other hand, it is important to be able to protect the identity of those who file complaints. AFSCA is the only authority where a complaint can be filed completely anonymously. This is particularly challenging. Things have gone too far. I would like to insist, even if I make a joint text based on my bill. It is important that this complete anonymity be removed and, at the same time, that individuals who file complaints be protected, since their identity should not be disclosed. That makes sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u12	Madam Chair, Minister, according to a Greenpeace report, 75% of apple orchards contain pesticide residues. Pesticide cocktails continue to be used by apple producers in many European countries, especially by farmers providing large-scale distribution. This situation is far from being confined to apples. The majority of pesticides identified in the test samples have high overall toxicity to human health and wildlife. Thus, the health risks of these chemicals affect all consumers, as well as farmers, their families and agricultural workers, in a very worrying way. To say that pesticides are dangerous to health is not a scoop. More and more evidence indicates this. But to what extent? Epidemiological studies have shown that farmers exposed to these substances are twice as likely to suffer from Parkinson's disease. Others noted that the incidence of some cancers, such as lymphomas, is two to three times higher in this particular population. The existence on a molecular scale of a relationship between occupational exposure to pesticides and the acquisition of a chromosomal anomaly known to be one of the initial stages of cancerization has, moreover, been demonstrated by French researchers. Minister, could you explain to us the impact of these residues and chemicals on these workers in the Belgian agricultural sector? What types of diseases affect them in particular? Are pesticides responsible for an increase in some cancers among their users? Are they considered a population at risk? If so, are they followed at the medical level? Have any analyses been carried out on agricultural workers in Belgium? Finally, Parkinson's disease is recognized as an occupational disease among French agricultural workers. What about Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u13	Madam President, Mr De Block, plant protection products fall within my remit, which explains why I am responding to this question originally put to my colleague, Mrs De Block, with whom I have a number of consultations whenever such matters are raised. I attach great importance and great attention to the potential risks of plant protection products to consumers, users and the environment. My administration monitors and analyses each of the new scientific developments, including international reports, institutional reports and NGO reports, with all the necessary rigour. However, we must recognize that there is not always, far from it, a scientific consensus on some of the conclusions or statements contained in some of these reports. In particular, with regard to analyses and specific research on agricultural workers, no large-scale research has been carried out in Belgium to date. On the other hand, I am informed of two major epidemiological studies that are under way in the United States, under the name AHS, with 80,000 individuals that are observed, and in France, under the name Agrican, with 180,000 people observed. It seems to me that the French study should be relatively representative in order to draw conclusions from Belgian agricultural practices. As regards risks, different studies have been carried out to define the reference toxicological doses, as well as exposure estimates based on different validated models. This allows authorities to assess risks in the worst situations and to indicate a framework of rules for use. This also makes it possible, before use, to decide whether such a substance presents risks and, in such cases, whether these risks are acceptable. It is clear that, in the event of unacceptable risks, authorisation for use is not approved. In addition, each user of potentially or potentially dangerous products must comply strictly with the instructions given in terms of use, including safety measures, such as the wearing of protective equipment and other provisions. The authorities closely monitor epidemiological data that detect possible effects in humans. In addition, under the federal pesticide reduction programme, federal actions are under way to monitor acute and chronic intoxication of professional users. It is therefore not a large-scale model approach, such as those mentioned in France or the United States, but a systematic follow-up and monitoring of poisonings found from the moment they are acute and chronic for professional users. On cancer risks, a systematic review of 800 scientific articles was commissioned by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) in 2013. From this review, no definitive conclusions could be drawn on the long-term effects of pesticide use under the conditions of use as prescribed. In the present state of knowledge, we cannot establish any evidence of an increase in cancers, nor an overmortality, which would be linked to the exposure of workers in the agricultural world to these products. However, the use of phytopharmaceuticals by professionals has sometimes been associated with increased Parkinsonism and cancers in children. In this regard, the current consensus among toxicologists and epidemiologists, based on systematic reviews and meta-analyses, is that occasionally observed associations do not at this stage make it possible to establish a causal link between the two, but that further research in this area is needed. For the moment, therefore, there is no majority in Europe to recognize Parkinsonism as an occupational disease. France is the only country to have granted this status to this disease among the twenty-eight Member States. You will find, therefore, that international research and evidence at this stage do not provide evidence of causality. At the same time, however, research is still under way and needs to be deepened. I also stress the extreme vigilance of my services and those of Maggie De Block with regard to all the scientific information that could reach us in the short to medium term concerning these issues which are very important for human health, and particularly for the sectors exposed, the agricultural sector in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u14	Minister, thank you. I am reassured by your forward-looking approach and your interest in this matter. You have been very comprehensive in your answer. There is ongoing monitoring, data analysis in the various departments and security measures. All this is very positive. If a causal link has been established in France to recognise Parkinson's disease as an occupational disease, it may be necessary to harmonise at European level to speed things up in the interests of Belgian agricultural workers who would be affected by this disease following contact with these different pesticides. This sector employs a large number of workers in Belgium and, in their interest, it is important to continue the studies in progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u15	Madam Chair, Minister, I come back to Greenpeace's analysis. As far as consumers are concerned, Mr. Minister, the choice made at the time for intensive contemporary agriculture can certainly be called into question. Minister, can agriculture live today without chemicals? Are you questioning this model? How do you look at this catastrophic situation? How can we move to bio knowing that it causes a loss of about 50% of production? Is the consumer ready to incorporate this change? How to promote bio? How can we make it accessible to all? What actions can you put in place to encourage a change in consumer attitudes and habits? How do you position yourself in the negotiations with the CAP? What are the means mobilised by the CAP in this context? Finally, is it not necessary to achieve harmonisation at European level? How does our government mobilize for an agriculture that respects the ecological transition?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u16	Mr Blanchart, as I indicated, this is a matter which I also pay great attention to. I do not sum up the division of competences between European and national level: it is known to you. What is being done at national level must of course also be done in accordance with the principles laid down at European level. With regard to pesticide residues, whose maximum levels of presence on foods are harmonised at European level, this approach is obviously taking place. These limits are set on the basis of good agricultural practice, i.e. the minimum quantities to achieve the desired result while, of course, ensuring the protection of the health of users and consumers. Foodstuffs that do not meet this Maximum Residue Limit (MRL) may not be placed on the market or marketed. The figures published by the AFSCA in its recent 2014 Activity Report show that 95.6% of the results of pesticide residue analyses conducted in 2014 were compliant, based on 3,860 samples. These good figures should not, however, lead to immobilism or attentism in relation to concerns. In fact, under the National Action Plan for the Reduction of Pesticides, it is planned to estimate the exposure of the Belgian population to pesticide residues through the consumption of fruit and vegetables by combining the results of the monitoring of the AFSCA with the information on the diet of Belgians. This development will help to deepen the knowledge of the real risk faced by consumers. This study and its highly anticipated results are announced for 2016. It should also be noted that the simultaneous presence of different residues in food and the environment in general, as well as a lack of knowledge of the combined effects of these substances, are, of course, a question. This complex issue is also addressed in the Federal Pesticide Reduction Program through scientific monitoring and the development of a work plan related to the combination of the simultaneous presence of different residues. I therefore consider that the Federal Pesticide Reduction Program addresses the issues that you raise, in any case, in the area of my jurisdiction. More broadly, I will continue to support this programme, which aims to reduce the use of pesticides and the risks associated with their use. To go back to the Greenpeace report you are referring to, the samples tested come from orchard soils grown using plant protection products. Additional samples were taken during the season of use of these products. The presence of residues of plant protection products in the samples is therefore not surprising but does not demonstrate that the concentrations found in the soil present or expose to these unacceptable risks that I mentioned in the previous question. In addition, the number of sites sampled for Belgium is limited. Despite these issues, my administration has taken note of the report and is currently conducting a more detailed and in-depth analysis of the results. Indeed, I consider that any information, whatever it may be, from the moment it expresses problems, a doubt or any other question concerning compliance with the regulations in force must be taken very seriously and forwarded to the AFSCA for a targeted inspection; this is being carried out or prepared.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u17	Minister, I encourage you to continue along this path and to support the program. Let us hope that most consumers will avoid consuming these products when they are most contaminated. The person who consumes contaminated fruits and vegetables eats an average of ten pesticides every day. This is obviously unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u18	Question No 5344 by Mrs Detiège is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u19	Mr Minister, everyone is familiar with the Social Activation Fund, which allows OCMWFs to ensure that people in poverty can still participate in cultural events or sports activities. During the debate on the resolution on the fight against poverty tabled by the majority, it was said that 15% would be saved on the fund this year and a further 2% over the next few years. Several organisations and OMCWFs have repeatedly warned about the disastrous consequences of this saving. The additional efforts announced by Mrs Sleurs on that occasion are, in my opinion, a drop in the ocean and are absolutely irrelevant. My questions are very simple. Mr Minister, I do not know whether you or Mrs Sleurs received him, but what has been done with the warning letter from the OCMWFs? Has there been any consultation with the OCMWFs? How do you deal with the OCMW's question? Do you maintain the intention to save additional 2 % over the next few years?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u20	Minister, the Social Activation Fund did indeed save money. However, it is also true that of the amounts previously granted, there was often a surplus in the OMCW and that amount was not transferable. Another problem with the fund is that the money was used very often for one-off things, for example to give tickets. I am not opposed to that, because that can be a nice addition to a package or a journey that one travels with a customer. However, the government has included in the government's agreement that it wants to focus on structural projects and matters that will integrate people more in the longer term, in this case on sport and culture. I understand the reasoning, but I would like to ask you why you did the right thing, so that you can frame them again? It is true that Secretary of State Elke Sleurs recently announced that she has released an additional EUR 4.5 million to combat poverty and child poverty. I assume that this will be discussed in order to see how what is being removed and otherwise can be filled in. The government agreement rightly states that activation remains the focus of poverty policy. How, then, will you ensure, together with Secretary of State Sleurs, that the OCMW will be able to make more structural efforts in the future towards the participation of disadvantaged people in social life, culture and sport? What other measures can be taken to continue to encourage and support OMCWFs, which are already doing very useful work in the field of participation, to engage in social participation and activation and to combat child poverty? I believe that a number of structural projects have already been launched today for many OCMWFs, which are now finding very difficult funding. If it is the government's reasoning to override the money that used to go to one-off cases, then I think that is a very good thing, but I would also like to hear you say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u21	Madam, I have consulted several times with the umbrella associations of the OCMWFs, in particular the VVSG, the UVCW and the VSGB, on various dossiers, including the Social Activation Fund. My administration also maintains regular contacts with them through monthly structural consultations and with the OCMWs themselves through the provincial meetings, where the savings were also explained. I attach great importance to having regular exchanges of views with the OCMWFs and their umbrella associations. Indeed, 15% of the fund will be saved in 2015. At government level, it was actually decided to save 20% linearly on all optional grants, but given the importance of the fund, I have already made a number of efforts to reduce savings, in budgetary difficult times. The additional annual savings of 2% are also applied linearly. In the 2016 budget format, I have put forward proposals to cope with these savings. The budgetary process is still under way, so I cannot give you any more information at the moment. Indeed, the coalition agreement states that activation remains the focus of poverty policy. As I have already said, as Minister for Social Integration, I have the power to implement social measures. With the various instruments at my disposal, I intend to develop a coherent and complementary policy on social activation in all its facets: from participation in society to progress towards work. The instruments in the field of grants are the increased state grant, the clustering of small OCMW debt instruments and the Fund for Participation and Social Activation, together with the GPMI as an instrument for the OCMW debt instruments. I would like to improve the instruments and see to what extent I can adjust the policy of subsidies on social activation. As is also stated in the coalition agreement, I would like to develop a more structural subsidy system with longer-term objectives, which is responsive and results-oriented. The questions relating to the anti-poverty projects do not fall within my competence, but within the competence of Mrs Elke Sleurs, Secretary of State for Combating Poverty. I would therefore refer you to my colleague for an answer on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u22	First of all, I would like to say that I had indeed addressed my questions to Mrs Sleurs. Someone's gotten that question to you now. If the ball is played from one ball to another, we can go on for a long time. What's more important is that it's the same song over and over again. There's a difference between what the government says and what it does. In fact, the coalition agreement states that there must be work on social activation, that structural measures must be taken, but you are actually building up the fund, for example, because you are saving on that. What is also preventing me from addressing Mrs van Peel to make that Social Activation Fund a fund that will enable structural measures to be taken? Apparently, that's not gonna happen. You build the fund completely, because you save 15% on it. Sorry, but it sounds a little cheap to knock you on the chest like a hero and say that it was first 20 % and that you only made it 15 %. I said the same thing to Mrs Sleurs. Sorry, it's still 15%. You also confirm that the annual savings of 2 % are maintained. That means you're cutting the fund. I am in a happy expectation of something structural, which will replace it, but I do not think that you do that by saving time and time again. At least keep the money. Once again, your actions, not only yours, by the way, those of the whole government, often contradict what is on paper and what you explain. Mrs van Peel, I would like to say that nothing structural is happening with the extra four million. That's a one shot, that's how Mrs. Sleurs explained it. I am therefore surprised that Mrs Lanjri wasn't here today when she first went in all that carnival, but today she planned a question which, if I have read it correctly, went in the same direction as mine. In any case, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u23	Unlike Mr Jiroflée, you will not be surprised, I am glad that you do not say a different song every time and that it is the same every time. If not, it could be said that the government has no purpose or project and is constantly saying other things. Imagine that. So I'm really glad to hear the same story here. Be careful, I'll follow a case. With regard to structural matters, which are referred to in the coalition agreement, I hope, of course, that we will soon be able to discuss them in a structured manner and that you will be able to propose the project you are working on. This will probably be done together with Mr Sleurs. Then we can see exactly how you're doing that switch. I'm following the reasoning. I myself note with the OMCW that in the past they had a subsidy policy that was very strongly focused on one shots. One could give gifts to ease the suffering for a while, but that didn't really help. I understand that it will take some time to make the changeover and I am very happy to await your plan in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u24	Several questions were addressed not only to Minister Borsus, but also to Minister De Block. They've all been sent back here. If certain elements differ, try to combine them into one question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u25	Minister, the use of antibiotics in livestock farming increased by 1.1 percent last year, the use of the most critical products even by 3.3 percent. Excessive use of antibiotics leads to resistant bacteria, which can also be dangerous for public health if this resistance passes to humans. In the meantime, we are all convinced of that. The aim of the AMCRA, the knowledge centre for the use of antibiotics in livestock farming, was to reduce the total use of antibiotics in the sector by half by 2020. As a result of the recent increase, we can now really ask ourselves whether this objective will be met. In response to the rising figures, you have set up the database for the collection of the usage data, which is funded by the sector. However, I note that several specialists are calling for more binding legal measures. According to the chairman of the AMCRA, the most critical products should only be administered by a veterinarian. According to him, the discounts by pharmaceutical companies would also be made most legally impossible. The specialists believe that the sector's self-regulation is not going far enough. In the meantime, we have been able to read that certain firms offer real discounts, just for those very critical products. Professor Dewulf calls that embarrassing. He once again called for a legal framework. I have also read in the newspaper that the reductions have been withdrawn and that these firms have changed their minds, but such a thing can always come up again. I agree with the chairman of the AMCRA to regulate this legally. What do you think of these proposals? Do you intend, together with the Health Minister, to anchor this in a legal framework? Do you plan any other actions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u26	Mr President, there have indeed been very disturbing reports. At first, antibiotic use had fallen. Now it rises again by 1.1 %. The dangers of this, including for humans, are well known. Last week, a disturbing report was published about the company Bayer, which offered heavy or dangerous antibiotics at solder prices on the internet. I therefore believe that measures are needed. You have already announced that there will be a database, but I agree with Mr Jiroflée that there are other things that are also pressing. That is why I would have liked to ask you the following questions. Are you aware of the current increase in sales of antibiotics? Do you have any idea how much of the antibiotics are used preventively? What concrete measures do you propose to achieve the objective of AMCRA 2020 to reduce antibiotic use? Are you in favour of a ban on the preventive use of antibiotics in livestock farming or a ban on antibiotics in animal feed? Would you be in favour of banning antibiotic feeds? Antibiotics are currently mixed with animal feed. How do you feel about that? A few questions about the creation of that database for the collection of usage data. Is there any guarantee that the sector will continue to pay for this database? Who will be able to register data? Will that registration be mandatory? What about negligence? What service will monitor this database? Will that fall under AMCRA or under your jurisdiction? Have you had any discussions with Professor Goossens? If so, what are the main conclusions that emerged from that consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u27	I will complete your remarks with my question. Since 2012, ASBL AMCRA has set itself the objective of collecting data that are essential to identify the use of antibiotics, how they are used, and thus to give itself the means to reduce their presence in animal feed, therefore in animal meat, and in doing so, in human food. Everyone knows, indeed, that we are developing resistance to antibiotics. It is therefore urgent to take action. As a result, AMCRA has set ambitious targets including reducing the use of antibiotics in livestock farming by 50% by 2020. It also wants to make improvements in terms of collaboration with different actors, in particular operators, in terms of good methods to avoid the need for antibiotics; awareness-raising; surveillance of antibiotic resistance. Despite all this goodwill, as my colleagues have said, there has been a significant increase in the use of antibiotics. In doing so, all actors must intervene, including the government, through the funding of AMCRA, the support of this ASBL so that it can fulfil its missions and meet its objectives. Complementarity of the actions carried out by the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Health is also necessary in so far as the two competences are linked. Finally, binding measures must be taken with regard to the sale of the most critical antibiotics in terms of consumption. Minister, what steps have you taken to meet these objectives? How do you plan to organize your collaboration with the Minister of Health?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u28	I propose that we should reply globally to all the questions that have been asked directly or that I have taken over from my colleague, Maggie De Block, and I would like to begin by putting the debate back into context. After all, the use of veterinary antibiotics is a competence which we share and on which we agreed that I should pilot the dossiers but that we should still cooperate fully. The fight against antibiotic resistance is part of my priorities. I have made this clear in my general policy statement and in my general policy paper. This isn't a problem I've discovered in the last few days. My cabinet met the person responsible for AMCRA on 3 February 2015. Thanks to the work of AMCRA and the active cooperation of the various parties involved, such as the livestock sector, the veterinarians, the faculties of veterinary medicine, the pharmaceutical industry, the feed manufacturers, the FAGG and the BFSA, so on, the sales of antibiotics in Belgium have fallen significantly in recent years: -13 % between 2011 and 2013 to -17 % for the so-called critical or classified antibiotics. This evolution shows that the system introduced by AMCRA and the parties concerned is working. This system is based on auto-regulation, framed by councils, the introduction of alternatives and so on and supported by the government. The 2014 results show an increase of 1.1 % compared to 2013. Of course, this is not good news and should be followed up, but it should also be placed in the global context, in particular the reduction to 11.8 % between 2011 and 2014. I repeat, moreover, that the results reflect sales and not use, and that the reason for the slight increase is not known or not yet known. I would also like to take this opportunity to point out that the results of the analyses looking for residues of antibiotics are excellent. We get almost 100 % of compliant results. The activity report of the BFSA 2014 deals with 12 cases in cattle and 8 cases in pigs. Such cases, of course, always ensure that the products concerned are removed from the market. I shall return to the measures to be taken. From the moment I took up my position, I have been working on a review of Belgian legislation on the provision and administration of veterinary medicinal products. This is covered by the Royal Decree of 23 May 2000. The review takes place in perfect cooperation between my cabinet and Mrs De Block's cabinet, the BFSA, the FAGG and DG 4 and aims to require the registration of all prescribed and administered treatments to food-producing animals and no longer only during the sensitive period prior to slaughter, and as European legislation imposes on us. Following this revision, it will provide for the mandatory transmission of data on the prescription, release and use of antibiotics by veterinarians for the main types of livestock concerned. This transmission will be via and to an official central data bank called Sanitel-Med, currently developed by AFSCA and AFMPS. These data will then be analysed in order to determine precisely the actual use of antibiotics by type of farm and user, veterinarians and breeders, and then to be able to make any informed arrangements. This, in my view, is a crucial and indispensable step which is precisely the subject of a priority recommendation from AMCRA. This system will be operational in 2016. For all these provisions, I also ensure that the principles of the only ounce and administrative simplification, through accounting and a compatible organisation of computer systems, are respected in order to avoid complications for operators. The agricultural and veterinary organisations and the orders have been agreed on this. The project is gaining their support. The drafting of the legislation itself is under way. The objective is to be published by the end of the year. In addition to these government initiatives, the different livestock sectors develop ID platforms that also collect usage data for the collection and analysis of that information in the context of the different specifications. Of course, it is not the intention to create a competitive tool for Sanitel.net, but the realisations between private and official systems will be optimised in order to achieve the objectives set for the indispensable collection of the usage data. My 2016 budget proposal for the Animal Health Fund, currently under administrative approval, provides €800,000 for the development of sectoral systems that will allow better regulation and monitoring of these data. Secondly, I would like to reiterate the importance of raising the awareness of each of the parties involved in this issue, which concerns us all. This awareness must be sustained. Each actor must, of course, assume his or her share of responsibility. The future data collection system will provide an objective basis for supporting this awareness campaign. I consider the objectives of AMCRA to be important. The additional proposals on what is already enshrined in legislation are currently being examined by my services and by my colleague Maggie De Block. The possibility of a total ban on price reductions for critical antibiotics, whether temporarily or not, by the pharmaceutical industry, will be examined by Minister Maggie De Block in consultation with the Minister for Economic Affairs and myself, taking into account, in particular, European legislation on the internal market. Since June 1, 2014, however, there have been tax provisions on the sale of antimicrobials in veterinary medicine. The aim of these taxes was to increase the price of antibiotics compared to vaccinations and biosecurity measures. The revenues generated are used for the development of the basic data collection system that I mentioned a few moments ago. Knowing that it is already completely forbidden to use antibiotics as a growth factor - which is of course an excellent thing - I am not in favour, at this stage, of a pure and simple ban on the use of antibiotics as a preventive measure. This proposal is indeed being debated at European level. We are in the process of reviewing legislation on veterinary medicines and medicated foods. Depriving oneself of this possibility could also have perverse effects, such as the use of more antibiotics, some of which were later criticized for curative use. However, I have no difficulty in having this proposal studied, discussed and an adequate solution found. In response to another question on this subject, I can inform you that the current data on the use of antibiotics do not allow a distinction to be made at this stage between the quantities used in a curative way and those used in a preventive manner. I understand the debate on the ban on the sale of veterinary antibiotics: decoupling. But we must also place ourselves in a broader context which it would be too long to develop here. I am against such dissociation because it would cause a great deal of practical problems for the sectors concerned. Examples from other Member States that have not opted for such dissociation show that a lasting reduction in the use of antibiotics is possible without such a measure. Conversely, this decoupling has not been proven in countries where it is applied. Nevertheless, veterinarians must fully assume their role in the context of antibiotic resistance and must also show great responsibility, which is already the case for the vast majority of them. Finally, a head of my firm attended the meeting of Professor Goossens, as well as the heads of the Belgian Antibiotic Policy Coordination Committee (BAPCOC) working groups, which he chairs, organised by my colleague Mrs De Block. Mr Dewulf, President of AMCRA, is also present. These very interesting meetings allowed Professor Goossens and his team to draw a global picture of autobioresistance in human medicine and also in veterinary medicine. The administration of antibiotics via food has added value if a group of animals is to be treated simultaneously. I do not think a total ban is appropriate. As you see, we are following this issue with great attention. We would, of course, like to recontextualize it according to the evolution of the findings concerning the presence of antibiotics. We also distinguish between the evolutions of the most aggressive antibiotics. Of course, we remain in contact with the European bodies and the AMCRA (Antimicrobial Consumption and Resistance in Animals). We are also looking at the results of experiments abroad, with a reduction objective that we will pursue with determination.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u29	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your comprehensive reply. I would like to comment on what you said at the beginning, in particular that the use of antibiotics decreased between 2011 and 2013 due to auto-regulation. That is correct, but we see that it has risen again in 2014. You are talking about that increase of 1.1 %. What I think is much more important is the 3.3 % increase for those most critical products. I think that should be taken into account, but I will leave that on your account. You say that the reason for this increase is not yet known. I understand this needs to be looked at. I hope that this will be quickly recognised and appreciate that you have already made a number of efforts around these databases and so on. However, I do not hear you say that you will intervene in the prices, the price setting and the way in which advertising is handled and that this is being studied. I am pleased to see what comes out of these studies, but I would like to point out the urgency of the problem. There is a real danger to public health, and I believe that we should not continue to study it indefinitely, but that legal action should be taken. After all, I hear that the specialists themselves are in favour of this. Again, I appreciate the work that has already been done.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u30	First of all, Minister, I am very pleased that you regard this as a priority and work well with Minister De Block. This is very important for public health and for people. Another important point is that you want to hear all stakeholders and that the split between curative and preventive is very difficult. I understand very well that it is also necessary to look at what is possible for farmers, but if there is any possibility of splitting it up and checking whether it offers added value, then we should also examine it. I am also very pleased that you have already announced a number of concrete measures here. You just compared the increase of 1.1 % because this is about sales, not about usage. However, we all know that a whole proportion of the antibiotics sold are not used up, but end up in the farmer's medicine cabinet afterwards and then re-used. That means danger. So we have to be careful about that. Your measure on the database can provide a solution, so I look forward very much to seeing it. We will certainly follow the legislative work very closely. As Mrs Jiroflée says, this is a pressing problem that has been dragging on for years and for which we must not be blind. We need to get this over with as soon as possible. I would like to throw a flower to Flor Van Noppen who worked very hard for this at the time. So the N-VA Group will not let go of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u31	Indeed, I remember these interventions in the Health Committee during the previous legislature. Minister, I am well aware of the measures and the mobilization around AMCRA, and I can only welcome them. One of the objectives of AMCRA is to have a plan for each operation. I think you need to take advantage of this goal. Indeed, avoiding sources of infection and the use of preventive drugs is directly related to how each operator will organize and develop best practices throughout the livestock chain. On the other hand, it is interesting that the sectors and the administration create and manage data banks to match reality, but it would be appropriate for these data banks to be merged to keep only one. In Belgium, we are the specialists for having several registers whose information cannot be crossed or correlated because they are not collected in the same way, registers whose existence is unknown and which we do not know at all how to use. I think we should put everyone around the table to have a single data bank, with several entry doors and appropriate collection methods. I cannot, of course, join you when you refuse to automatically exclude the presence and use of antibiotics in a preventive manner. We can't fight antibiotic resistance, at least at the human level, but it's a chain. Pharmaceutical companies must be forced to look for substitutes. It is a human health issue that affects all our modern societies. The aim must be to replace farming methods, farming methods, and substitutes that are probably more effective than those that now exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u32	Minister, if we still have the opportunity to have a meeting on 15 July, we will postpone the issues that could not have been dealt with today, otherwise we will try to find another solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u33	Minister, we read in the Greenpeace report that too many pesticides are used on apples and that Belgium is a poor pupil in the classroom. However, there are many alternatives, such as the use of certain species of insects that have a beneficial effect on fruit production. Minister, can you give me some figures on the number of pesticides used on apples? Are they consistently tracked, updated, analysed and evaluated? Do you agree that chemical pesticides should be banned and that non-chemical alternatives should be used? If so, what measures do you intend to take? Do you follow the recommendations of the Greenpeace report?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u34	Plant protection products are within my competence, which explains why I am taking over this question from my colleague, Mrs Marghem. Your questions have already been partially answered as a result of Question No 6, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 5329 by Mr Blanchart. I shall therefore confine myself to additional information. You asked for statistics on the use of plant protection products in fruit production. There are statistics that are collected and processed by the Regions. At federal level, my administration only has statistics on the sale of the products. Because many products are allowed for multiple crops, it is not possible to extract the information you wish. You are asking me about the replacement of chemical pesticides with alternative non-chemical pesticides. For the placing on the market of plant protection products, European legislation already supports the process of integrated control, giving preference to the use of appropriate cultivation practices. Since 2006, my services have been actively supporting the marketing of biopesticides, i.e. mainly products based on plant extracts, products containing micro-organisms, bacteria, viruses and fungi or products based on pheromones. In addition, as part of the federal pesticide reduction programme, my services are trying to significantly reduce the risk profile of plant protection products placed on the market for private individuals.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u35	Minister, I am pleased that the question has come to you because you may share more concerns about the dangers, because there is also research that shows that men's sperm quality is falling dramatically when they eat a lot of apples with pesticides.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u36	Madam President, Minister, I recently requested the figures of the number of checks on hygiene and food safety in market stalls in the Antwerp markets. The results I have received from this are disturbing. For more than five years, only 318 controls were carried out on 214 outpatient operators. In addition, one in three checks was found to be unfavourable. This is a danger to public health, but also to fair competition between traders. It is also striking that the centre of the cities is mainly controlled, while there are many markets in the submunicipalities or districts of the city of Antwerp. In Antwerp, 89 percent of checks are carried out in the city centre and only 11 percent in the remaining eight districts. This is, above all, a problem in two areas, particularly public health, which must of course be monitored and also for the position of traders who are doing well, who are properly monitoring hygiene. Minister, how are these checks carried out? Are markets controlled in their entirety or are there targeted controls on one or a few market stalls? In the latter case, what selection criteria are used? Isn't it more efficient to carry out full checks? If 1 500 checks per year are carried out in Belgium, but only 318 checks are carried out in Antwerp over a period of five years, that seems to be far too little. What's your opinion? Do you intend to do something about that? What is the reason why the outskirts of the city, the districts and the submunicipalities are almost completely ignored? Will you distribute more proportionally the number of checks on market stallers in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u37	Madam President, Mr Klaps, as a result of the answer to Parliament's question No. 94 on the control of the Antwerp markets, you looked at the organization of these controls. The inspection frequencies used by the BFSA, which are also consultable on our website, are based on a risk analysis. 1 500 out-of-town traders are inspected every year. The number of inspections to be carried out per PCE, or provincial district, shall be determined by a key, taking into account, inter alia, the size of the provincial structure. In the province of Antwerp, about 180 inspections are planned on an annual basis of outpatient traders. The number of inspections carried out annually in the city of Antwerp is about 30% of the planned number for the province of Antwerp. That percentage is proportional to the population of the city on the one hand and the province on the other. In addition, the results for the outpatient traders, in particular the outpatient catering sector, are more favourable than the average in the hospitality sector. The number of inspections provided for by the control plan is monitored and should not be changed at present, although, according to the findings on the ground, the number of inspections can always be adjusted. The events, markets and festivals to be monitored are selected locally by the provincial control unit based on the history, the complaints and the turn role. Greater markets are preferred for the efficient use of human resources. Ambulant operators are not exclusively linked to a single market and are generally present throughout the week in several markets and in different regions. Both market-wide controls and targeted controls are possible to achieve the target set. An announced control action is organised annually in each province. In this action, all traders, including all out-of-town traders, are inspected on the markets. However, outpatient traders can also be selected locally, per provincial control unit, on the basis of history, complaints and so on. The aim of all inspections of events shall be to check all the out-of-town traders present.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u38	Minister, we need to see how the chance of getting to grips with this situation can be increased. As far as traffic is concerned, we are always talking about the opportunity for motorists who drink a glass too much and still drive a car, otherwise there will never be a change of attitude. I understand the philosophy of the BFSA, which means that large markets are controlled, because the stands there are also on smaller markets, and so the BFSA controls them there. However, if we know that there is no de facto control of small markets, then it will obviously be very tempting to sell anything that has not been sold on the large market, in the next few days and weeks, possibly on the smaller markets. It is therefore necessary to consider revising the system.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u39	My question is very brief, Minister. The government agreement states that we will extend the GPMI in consultation with the sector to other rights holders in social integration and services. It also states that a clear path towards greater self-reliance is to be taken together and that evaluation times are to be provided for. In addition, the federal government, by adapting its regulations to local authorities, will provide new tools for social and social integration in order to develop a community service for commuters within this GPMI. This involves maximum respect for the client's initiative and the aim of social or professional reintegration. My question is very simple: what is the current state of affairs? What steps have you already taken? In what way will you support the local authorities? What new instruments will be provided?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u40	I've given a study assignment to gather policy recommendations on the GPMI. A qualitative analysis of the following intentions is made on the basis of a survey with the OCMWFs. Firstly, the possibilities of extending the GPMI to other target groups. Secondly, the use of the instrument in the framework of a policy of social activation. Thirdly, optimisation of the GPMI in the context of social assistance for beneficiaries. Fourth, optimising the GPMI in the light of the evolution of the beneficiaries and determining how progress can be made measurable. Fifthly, the optimisation of the IPMI in the context of administrative simplification is not insignificant. Sixth, implementation of the GPMI with the community service, taking into account the philosophy of the law on the right to social integration. Seventh, good practices regarding the application of the GPMI, as well as the pitfalls to be avoided. A written survey was conducted at all OCMWFs. The results are now being processed. In order to test the first research findings against practice, in-depth interviews will be carried out on a representative sample of the OCMWFs and soundboard groups will be set up, composed of experts and stakeholders. That's a study. I expect the results of this study at the end of this year. The policy recommendations that will be formulated on the basis of this study will allow me to determine the way in which local authorities are best supported and which form of GPMI best meets the needs of the OMCS and the beneficiaries. As I announced in my policy paper, I am committed to a policy of social activation to remove barriers to full participation in our society. So a little patience for the outcome of this broad study.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u41	Patience is not my best quality, I must admit, Minister. I am pleased that you are asking for such a broad study and that the OCMWFs are involved to that extent. What we certainly want to avoid is that the administrative burden would become even more severe. I do not believe that any OCMW is asking for this, although the expansion of the GPMI is something that is widely supported. You want to take your time. Okay, I'll work on my patience. I assume that you will then come to the committee to explain the outcome? If you weren't allowed to do that, I'm gonna ask you another question when I'm out of patience. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u42	We will stop the oral questions, so that you can go to the Conference of Presidents. We will meet on the 15th in the morning, possibly on the 14th in the morning. We know that plenary meetings will be held almost all the time. If we can ask these oral questions next week, we will avoid turning them into written questions. Is that possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u43	We can just as well turn them into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u44	We still have questions from Mr de Lamotte. Oral questions Nos 5607 and 5638 by Mrs Renate Hufkens, as well as questions Nos 4867 and 5333 by Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, are transformed into written questions. We'll call Mr. de Lamotte. Minister, when you came here fifteen days ago, you were asked about the echevinat and CPAS mergers and the tools you planned to develop for the transmission of information. For these two points, you told us that studies existed and that advice had been sought. You were to address this issue in the Council of Ministers. Normally, it was supposed to be last week. This has not yet been done. You assured us that you would transmit this information to us at the same time as the Council of Ministers. What is your status in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u45	I had indicated that I would report in the next 15 weeks to the Council of Ministers. Following this report, we are conducting a number of consultations to prepare for a visit to the Council of Ministers. I am fully prepared, when the time comes, to present some documents to you and to share some information. I will therefore ask you for a little patience, given the work in progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u46	That means it won't be until the holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u47	This is indeed a very short period of time. After the holidays, we will still be in a fully operational timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u48	If I may say so, we don't care about the decisions of the Council of Ministers. The opinions are here. Next week, we'll try to organize our work for the new year. We'll get back in touch with the firm. Can we set a date so that we don't end up like the carabinieri of Offenbach? That would not be correct given the number of questions asked. Or can you give us your information so that we have time to examine it? We can also organize a meeting at which you will present the documents to the members.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u49	I suggest, as you suggest, that we take the assumption of a commission as soon as we get back to school.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u50	So we could have a meeting in September?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u51	Yes. In this way, we will be able to discuss this important subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u52	We'll call you next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u53	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic218x.u54	We will suggest that Mr Michel de Lamotte turn oral questions Nos. 5650 and 5651 into written questions.
