ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic203x.u1	Mr President, Prime Minister, the agenda for the Benelux Summit of 28 April was very busy. Many issues were discussed, such as the fight against terrorism and radicalisation, the situation in Greece, the deepening of economic and monetary union, the TTIP negotiations and the situation of migrants in the Mediterranean. The main achievement of this summit, however, is the adoption of a Benelux action plan for employment and growth. Prime Minister, can you give us a complete debriefing of the issues raised at this summit and the Belgian position in this context? Can you give us details of the measures in the Action Plan for Jobs and Growth? It would appear that the priorities of the Luxembourg and Dutch Presidencies have been mentioned. Can you tell us more? You mentioned in the Summit conclusions the establishment of joint inspections on social fraud and social dumping for companies operating in several Benelux countries. Can you tell us how and when these controls will be put in place? Will further measures be taken to combat social dumping? Finally, did you address the issue of roaming? The Benelux Parliament had already advocated the elimination of roaming charges for the citizens of our three countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic203x.u2	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, the agenda for the Benelux Summit of 28 April was indeed very busy. You know Belgium's position on these points. That is what I am defending at the European Council and which I regularly put before the Federal Opinion Committee on European Affairs. In addition to the exchange of views on European and topical issues, the main achievement of this Summit is the adoption of a Benelux Action Plan for Jobs and Growth. This action plan contains a list of concrete projects on which the Benelux countries wish to cooperate more closely. The aim is both to remove obstacles to the internal market, both within Benelux and to develop solutions that could serve as a model for the whole European Union. The aim is also to build on two successive Benelux Presidencies of the Council of the European Union to adopt a stable line and make Benelux a model for the application of European rules. Benelux cooperation always aims to be at the forefront at European level. Among the measures in this action plan, I will mention, in particular, actions aimed at reducing the barriers faced by businesses but also consumers in the internal retail market. In particular, in the context of the e-commerce project, these points seem important to us. The concrete aim is to better harmonise national regulations in the three countries, to promote a coherent order and a uniform interpretation of European regulations. It is also a question of tackling territorial supply restrictions. The Action Plan also aims to promote e-commerce and the Digital Single Market. Good cooperation within Benelux can help create an internal market of potentially 28 million consumers by providing businesses with a stronger starting point for developing on the European and international market. In addition, the extension of regional cooperation in the field of energy is also at the heart of this action plan. For ten years now, Benelux has been the driving force behind so-called pentalateral energy cooperation with France and Germany. Europe relies on regional cooperation within the framework of the Energy Union. In addition, the social dimension is also an important part of our work. The statements clearly reaffirm the conclusions of the 2014 Social Summit. Benelux wants to be a forerunner in multilateral cooperation in the fight against social dumping and social fraud. In this regard, we were attending a meeting last week with the Swedish Prime Minister and the European Commissioner responsible for this issue, Marianne Thyssen, with a view to advancing the European Union in the fight against social dumping. In addition, the ruling case was also discussed. It is one of the concerns of Benelux and the European Union. The European Regulation "Ruling 3", adopted in 2012, has provided for maximum tariff ceilings since its entry into force, which are adapted on an annual basis – until 2016. The issue of roaming charges and their abolition was put on the table by the European Commission during the previous legislative term in September 2013 as part of the single telecoms market package. Parliament and the Council are discussing this important issue for citizens. I would add that, at last week's European Council, a number of countries, including Belgium and Great Britain, supported the conclusions that it was important to make rapid progress towards eliminating these roaming charges. Finally, we have not had time to address the priorities of the Luxembourg and Dutch Presidencies, but they have been mentioned during the trilateral cooperation which takes place before each European Council. You will have understood that the issue of migration was essential for the Luxembourg Presidency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic203x.u3	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answers. Indeed, it is to be welcomed that decisions have been taken to combat social dumping, because here too the Benelux has a role to play. You didn't answer me about setting up joint inspections. I don't know whether it's still up to date or not and whether they're actually going to be set up. I'd like to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic203x.u4	Indeed, there have already been joint inspection initiatives, notably from Belgium and the Netherlands, to certain temporary agencies or shipyards. Initial experiments have taken place, others are programmed, others are going to intensify.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic203x.u5	Mr President, Prime Minister, the French-speaking Union of Belgians abroad and his Flemish counterpart Vlamingen in de Wereld gave you a claim book last April. This booklet essentially contains the problems that Belgians living abroad face on a daily basis. Among these problems are the problems related to health care insurance or the period of re-hospitalisation in Belgium. Prime Minister, can you tell us if a meeting has been organized or is planned in the coming days with the leaders of these associations to listen to their demands? As Prime Minister, can you explain here the avenues for solutions that you could propose to address their problems? Finally, since my question was tabled, a debate has taken place in the Committee on Rules of Procedure. On this occasion, we proposed to set up a parliamentary advisory committee which would have had the task of addressing the problems encountered by Belgian expatriates. However, our proposal was rejected by the majority. Can you give me the reason for this rejection? Indeed, the latest report of the Federal Ombudsman's Office, which dates back to 2014, makes a series of comments in this regard. It would therefore have been useful, in my view, to be able to discuss it in an opinion committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic203x.u6	Mr President, my cabinet is in regular contact with the Honorary Ambassador of the Union francophone des Belges abroad, Mr Rens, and the Director of Vlamingen in de Wereld, Mr Koen Van der Schaeghe. Discussions have already taken place on the many problems encountered by Belgians working and/or living abroad. A memorandum containing a number of requests has been submitted to my office jointly by the two organizations. Among their demands, one of the most important concerns the extension of Belgian voting rights abroad for regional and European elections. This point is included in the government agreement. I have asked the Ministers of the Interior and Foreign Affairs to work together to introduce a bill to the government in the coming months. On the one hand, it will aim to extend the right to vote for the European elections to all Belgians abroad, and not only to Belgians residing in a country of the European Union. On the other hand, it will seek to improve and simplify electoral procedures for federal and European elections in order to make them simpler, faster and more efficient. As far as regional elections are concerned, the dossier is still in the preparatory phase. It requires a special law for which a two-thirds majority is required. Other requests from the two organizations are the subject of in-depth analysis by the ministers concerned. We are totally listening to Belgians abroad to respond to their concerns. Finally, you ask me for my opinion on a proposal made by your group but rejected by Parliament through a vote. Personally, I do not have a priori against this initiative, except that there are other channels, equally effective or even more effective, to improve the situation of Belgians abroad: the work from the government, the work from parliamentary initiatives, the ability to question the various ministers concerned on a regular basis. I note that the opposition itself was divided on the subject since two opposition parties abstained on this proposal. I conclude by saying that we wish to make progress to ensure that the concerns expressed are taken into account as widely as possible in the evolution of our legislative arsenal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic203x.u7	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I will simply re-read a small paragraph in the report of the Federal Ombudsman which confirms that "the Directorate-General for Consular Affairs generates, without surprise, the bulk of the flow of claims relating to the FPS Foreign Affairs, given the nature of consular tasks. The main complaint arising from complaints by citizens against the consular and central services that support them concerns the lack of a culture of service and customer orientation." A whole series of very interesting remarks are made in different areas. I think this kind of committee would have been very useful. As we have been denied, I will ask that we be able to analyse in the Committee on External Relations all the observations made by the Federal Ombudsman in order to find solutions for our fellow citizens working abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic203x.u8	Prime Minister, from 11 to 14 May, you conducted an economic mission from our country to Japan. I would like to ask you more specifically about the European Union-Japan trade agreement. Was this discussed during this mission? I read that you were in favour of concluding such an agreement, do you confirm it to me? It is said that this agreement should have a "positive impact" in terms of jobs and growth for both parties, but have you commissioned a specific impact assessment for Belgium? What is the status of the negotiation process? What guarantees are provided in this agreement to ensure that our SMEs will not have to suffer from such an important market opening, at a time when TTIP and CETA are also under negotiation? There is no doubt that an investment protection clause is provided for. Is it in the form of ISDS? What do you think? Especially in the context of the TTIP consultation which allowed millions of Europeans to oppose such a mechanism, but also in the light of the UN's call of 4 May to suspend the TTIP negotiations on the grounds that there were serious risks to respect for human rights in the event of the implementation of the ISDS. Does this agreement provide for a chapter on the recognition of a leading monitoring role for civil society, as recommended by the European Economic and Social Committee? Finally, more broadly, what are the different socio-economic and diplomatic themes that you addressed during this mission and how did our country position itself on them?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic203x.u9	Mrs Grovonius, thank you for your questions. For the accuracy of my answers and for the report, I did not visit Japan from 11 to 14, but from 11 to 13 May with the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy, Kris Peeters. The mission was primarily diplomatic but also economic in nature. The European Union-Japan Economic Agreement has been discussed on several occasions in the bilateral talks we have had with both the Japanese authorities and economic actors. I confirm your support for the conclusion of such an agreement. I am convinced that it is a driver of growth for our companies, both in terms of trade and in terms of the attraction of Japanese investment in Belgium, and should have a positive impact on employment in Belgium and therefore a positive impact on the financing of our social protections. In order to analyse the impact of such an agreement, the Minister of Economy Kris Peeters undertook before this Parliament to draw up an econometric model to analyse in a more detailed way the costs and socio-economic benefits of the European trade agreements for Belgium. It would be a new instrument that has not yet been put in place by previous Governments and could be useful. The previous government team, on the other hand, had drafted a note on Japan, in collaboration with the Regions and the Communities, which took Belgium's both offensive and defensive interests into account in this process. As for the evolution of the negotiations, they made significant progress in 2014. Japan has fulfilled its commitment to remove some 30 non-tariff barriers to the export of Belgian and European products. In addition, there was an initial exchange of views on the goods and services sectors. At the end of May 2015, the European Union and Japan held a summit to give new political impetus to these negotiations. Europe's trade agreements must benefit SMEs, inter alia, because they provide legal certainty and simplification. They must bring more fair competition. The Commission's negotiating mandate, which had been approved by the previous Belgian Government, also required specific account to be taken of the situation of SMEs. That's a good thing. The EU-Japan Free Trade Agreement provides for an investor-state dispute settlement mechanism (ISDS). In its approach to investment protection provisions and ISDS provisions, the European Commission must take into account the results of the discussion on ISDS in the framework of TTIP and also the concerns of civil society, as you mentioned. The Commission's negotiating mandate includes a commitment to consult with all interested and relevant groups, including civil society. In addition, the European Union also stresses, within the framework of the agreement with Japan, the importance of involving civil society in the monitoring mechanism of the future chapter on sustainable development. Finally, in addition to this agreement, the political and socio-economic situation in Belgium was discussed during this visit. I have noted a strong interest from our Japanese partners in the reform implemented by the government as well as in our efforts to improve the capacity of businesses to create additional jobs. Finally, you have observed that a few weeks after this mission, Japan has confirmed the establishment of an airline between Brussels and Tokyo, of which I believe it will be very important for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic203x.u10	Prime Minister, thank you for these answers. I regret a little that you so willingly wish to move forward on this type of agreement when, and you have confirmed to me, no impact assessment for Belgium has yet been carried out. Mr Peeters has committed himself to thinking about an econometric system that would allow us to assess this impact, but we are nowhere yet. However, it is very regrettable that we are making such voluntary progress on these treaties without knowing what impact they will have on our society, on our citizens, but also on our small and medium-sized enterprises. My question also dealt very specifically with the question of the impact on human rights. I have not heard any reply on this subject. I certainly hope that Mr Peeters will present us with a model that will allow us to assess not only the economic impact but also the impact on important human rights issues, especially when it comes to the implementation of clauses such as ISDS. Although there is a willingness to observe what is going to happen under the TTIP, there is also no firm opposition to the introduction of such clauses. However, they are still heavily criticized, particularly with regard to the issue of human rights. We will follow all this with great attention and I will undoubtedly have the opportunity to question Mr Peeters on this model which he will shortly be presenting to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic203x.u11	The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4990 by Mr Dallemagne. However, Mr Dallemagne is not here. He did not apologize, nor did he ask for his question to be asked later. In accordance with Rule 127 (10) of the Rules of Procedure, his question is therefore considered to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic203x.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, a flash summit of the European Union (EU) and the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States (CELAC) did indeed take place on 10 and 11 June in Brussels. Sixty-one national delegations were present to discuss the climate (preparation for the Paris Summit) as well as trade relations (CELAC is the EU's fifth trading partner), political and cultural between the European Union and the CELAC countries. The European Commission committed itself at the summit to invest €118 million in Latin America and the Caribbean to intensify cooperation in the investment and business sectors in CELAC member countries. The EU High Representative for Foreign Policy, Frederica Mogherini, called for strengthening the political partnership between the EU and CELAC member countries within the United Nations in particular. Can you, Prime Minister, present us with the main decisions that were taken at this summit? What was Belgium's position in this context? Has the issue of free trade agreements been addressed in this context? If so, what position have you taken with regard to effective compliance - including suspensive clauses in case of non-compliance - with social and environmental standards? Has the issue of human and trade union rights been addressed, as well as the way in which disputes are resolved? What is the state of our economic and diplomatic relations with these countries? Finally, were relations between the EU and Cuba on the agenda of the Summit following the thawing of relations between the United States and Cuba?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic203x.u13	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, this second EU-CELAC Summit, which took place on 10 and 11 June, was aimed at confirming and strengthening the strategic partnership with this region, following the launch of the partnership in Rio in 1999. Based on a common past and common cultural affinities, the EU wants to be a more structural partner for CELAC. Belgium fully participates in the intensification of this partnership and believes that it is important to deepen it both in its political, economic, social and security dimension. As far as the main decisions taken at this summit are concerned, I will mention the so-called Brussels Declaration which was formally adopted. This summit helped to strengthen links between our regions at the highest level and to address issues that are among the bi-regional as well as international concerns. On behalf of Belgium, I had the opportunity to stress the importance of the development of economic and trade relations. I would also like to point out that the European Union remains the first foreign investor in CELAC countries and that CELAC is increasingly investing in the European Union. In 2012, foreign direct investment reached more than €80 billion. I can provide you with other figures if you wish. As part of the development of economic and trade relations, I have highlighted more specifically the role of SMEs. They must form the backbone of our economy and it is important to create a framework for their development in such international agreements. We also addressed the issue of sustainable development. Our respective policies must pay specific attention to the social aspect and in particular to social protection, in particular decent work, which we have insisted on on on behalf of the Belgian Government or on the issue of youth employment. The determination to achieve the ratification and effective implementation of the current Association and Trade Agreements between the European Union and CELAC countries was reiterated by most interlocutors. These agreements must contribute to a significant increase in trade and investment between our two regions, which, hopefully, should have a direct impact on employment and thus contribute to growth and inclusive development in the regions. As you know, these agreements contain social and environmental clauses, ambitious provisions on the protection of human rights, the rule of law, good governance and commitments to be effectively implemented in international conventions on workers' rights and environmental protection. Each party is explicitly empowered to take immediate action in the event of a possible violation of democratic principles and fundamental human rights. Civil society organisations will be systematically involved in monitoring the implementation of these commitments, which must be subject to an arbitration system. Finally, as you mentioned, relations between the European Union and Cuba were discussed at the Summit. On both sides, participants welcomed the re-establishment of diplomatic relations between the United States and Cuba, calling for an early end to the embargo. It was also decided, on the sidelines of the summit, to speed up negotiations for the framework agreement between the European Union and Cuba.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic203x.u14	Mr President, I thank the Prime Minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic203x.u15	Debates of the European Parliament 5055 by Mr Gilkinet, 5221 by Mr Crusnière, 5264 by Mr Dedecker, 5278 by Mr Hedebouw and 5320 by Mr Deseyn will be discussed in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic203x.u16	Prime Minister, Le Soir on June 12th highlighted figures from the study produced by the Institut Scientifique de Santé Publique on Belgian death certificates. It is not surprising to me that the citizens living in the most vulnerable areas in terms of employment and income are the most exposed to pollution. In addition, these areas are characterized by a higher rate of premature mortality than elsewhere. The provinces of Hainaut and Liège - and more particularly the first - are thus highlighted. The mortality rate before age 75 is higher than that of other provinces. Both regions have been hit hard by business closures and not just any other. I am firmly convinced – I had intervened in this regard in your general policy statement – that it is in these areas that the people who suffer most from the measures taken by the previous government, policies pursued by yours. My criticisms therefore apply to both, but it turns out that it is yours that is in exercise. These measures are the degressiveness of unemployment benefits, the exclusion of the right of inclusion for certain persons, the reduction or loss of supplementary allowances in part-time work, the reduction of time credit entitlements, the non-indexing and blocking of wages and allowances, the weakening of the criteria for suitable employment and increased flexibility in terms of working conditions. So I couldn't help but question you. In your government statement, I asked you and the Minister of Health about the causes of our poor health. Our health status, at 90%, is linked to the determinants of health, namely, social, economic and environmental criteria. There is only a small part left related to the factors of chance, the fact that viruses, microbes and a health care system allow us to treat ourselves when we are sick. Government policies undermine all these determinants of social quality of life. So your government is damaging the health of Belgian citizens. It's another thing to say that we're fighting for everyone to have access to health care. We must fight to ensure that everyone has access to health care, regardless of their income, but we must first fight to ensure that everyone has access to decent living conditions that allow them to remain in good health. The Scientific Institute of Public Health never only confirms this, but all international studies also show this. There is a concordance in the assessments and in the facts. It can be seen that the premature mortality rate (deaths before age 75) ranges from 300 people per 100,000 inhabitants of rich municipalities to 700 people per 100,000 inhabitants in the poorest cities, including Mons, Charleroi, Liège, Huy, etc. Linkages are clearly identified with low incomes, poverty rates, and risks of insecurity. They are also responsible for at-risk behaviours and lifestyle habits, such as alcohol and tobacco consumption, and food consumption choices. The Hainaut Health Observatory, which is the only real observatory in Wallonia, also highlights this. We have tried to work on these issues in the Public Health Committee to take measures that limit the consumption of tobacco and alcohol. Although this is parliamentary and non-governmental responsibility, it must be recognized that the parties of the majority did not consider it necessary to take stronger action at this time. Prime Minister, what answers do you give today to the dramatic findings on the health of some of the Belgian citizens living in precarious conditions and poverty? Do you agree to link the social policies that are being pursued and to consider policies that are restorative to the policies that have been decided, given the impact they have on health in particular indirectly as a result of the impacts of other dimensions, particularly social ones? Are you going to pursue ambitious, more ambitious policies than current policies on tobacco control and alcohol use? We are waiting for an impetus, ambitious policies, the same in terms of food quality and therefore product standards. There are policies to work with the Regions and the Communities in this area, and I would like to ask you to invite the Minister of Health and the other Ministers and you to take into account the impact of the policies you are leading, the decisions you are making, knowing that they have an impact on the state of health.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic203x.u17	First of all, honourable Member, you say that our government is damaging the health of our citizens, I quote. That is precisely the opposite of what we are doing. We have the ambition to pursue a policy to create economic activity, to create employment, to raise the standard of living of citizens. In addition, you rely on a study, as you yourself said, which assesses mortality for the period 2003-2009, that is, several years before this government took office. I would like to go back to a number of points. First, with you, I see that for several years an increase in inequalities in health care is a reality and this situation is deplorable and cannot leave anyone indifferent. That is why we want to work to reduce these health inequalities. We have committed ourselves to this in the government's agreement. As you certainly know, the ideal is to tackle injustices caused by inequalities based on the Health in All Policies principle. That is to say to have as transversal a view as possible on the subject. The commitment of all departments will therefore be essential. To this end, a federal plan to combat poverty is being developed, involving representatives of Public Health and Social Affairs. In concrete terms, a proposal for a plan to combat inequalities in health has been finalized by the working group "Inequalities - Health", set up within the Interdepartmental Commission on Sustainable Development. The task of this working group is to develop a national action programme aimed at halving existing health inequalities by 2050. The Minister of Social Affairs and Health has also set up a new inter-federal working group "Inequalities in Health" within the framework of the Inter-ministerial Conference on Public Health, in order to achieve political agreement on this proposal. I believe that all policy-makers must be made aware of this as much as possible. You know that the issue of prevention is not a federal jurisdiction but is in the head of the federated entities, hence the importance of a quality dialogue to progress together on this issue. Finally, at European level, from 2017, Belgium will be involved in the preparation of new joint actions in this area as well. In addition, you are asking me more specifically about the government's policy on tobacco control, alcohol consumption and nutrition. Some elements of answer in relation to this. As far as tobacco is concerned, Belgium will soon be implementing the new European legislation on tobacco control. This is a Directive adopted in May 2014 which provides, inter alia, for a precise declaration to the Member States of ingredients used in tobacco products, the prohibition of any advertising or misleading elements on tobacco products or quality safety requirements for electronic cigarettes. It should be transposed before May 2016. Minister De Block's services are actively working towards this goal. With regard to the scourge of alcohol, the Interministerial Conference on Public Health is currently working on a strategy to combat alcohol. Due to its complementary nature, the General Drug Unit was also tasked with working on this topic. As a reminder, the draft alcohol plan, drawn up under the previous legislature but which could not be validated by the various ministers concerned, provided for measures to reduce demand but also supply. At the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Monday, 29 June 2015, it was proposed to continue discussions on the alcohol plan within the Health Cell and the General Policy Cell Drugs as these meetings can be useful places for advancing commitments in this area. In the area of nutrition, a second federal nutrition-health plan is being prepared with a steering committee. An operational plan is being drafted and the reformulation of foodstuffs is one of the objectives of this plan. As you can see, the government, particularly the Minister of Health, is actively working on these issues with all stakeholders, including in federated entities and with local authorities, in order to achieve, we hope, results quickly. Finally, in addition to lifestyle, cultural habits, the environment and genetic factors that are all determinants of quality of life and mortality, as shown in the study you cited, socio-economic factors also count. That is why the government wants to work on ambitious socio-economic reforms for which we are committed: the revival of employment through the reduction of the burden on work, the increase in purchasing power for those who work and also for those who do not work through the upgrading of the welfare envelopes, a pension reform to ensure the long-term financing of solid pensions. In the social field, the Government's achievements are already numerous: the recovery of 2% of the lowest pensions in less than nine months of the establishment of the government, the increase of 2% of the integration income from 1 September, the increase of the sickness and disability insurance of 160 euros for disabled persons for more than two years or the extension of the status of close caregiver to the self-employed. Here are some concrete examples of the government's most operational action on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic203x.u18	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. You make it clear that your intentions and the objectives you pursue are obviously not to harm the health of Belgian citizens. Luckily! That's not what you're posting, what you're saying. You're quoting plans. The federal plan to combat poverty, for example, was intended to be discussed in the ad hoc committee, i.e. the Public Health Committee, which I chair. We still haven't been able to touch it in words! The same applies to the Nutrition-Health plan, the Alcohol and Tobacco measures. We wanted to work on these matters in more depth. We were told above all not to do anything at the federal Parliament level because a directive was going to come out and it would only be transposable in 2016. However, tax measures are expected by all those working in the field of tobacco control. They argue that the tax tool is extremely interesting and fundamental, since, if it is organized with a public health objective and not with a public revenue objective, it is an essential element in the fight against tobacco use. I hear intentions; I hear plans. In fact, I see nothing concrete! You claim to have taken measures that improve the socio-economic situation of citizens. You're looking at a few of them, but they're minimal and only restorative in terms of policies you've taken that are policies that exclude a whole range of rights. There is nothing worse than to think that we are going to be excluded from certain rights and that we are going to be judged at all times on what we are doing and that the consequences will be serious for ourselves and for his family. I am sure that you have not analysed and weighed the impact of the policies you have taken in terms of gender. Single women are the greatest victims of the measures you have taken, while the law requires you to assess the arrangements you are making in this regard. Women's health is also one of the most affected by the measures taken. I will table a motion of recommendation. I wish only one thing, I try every three months to schedule a meeting with the ministers to discuss the subjects you have mentioned, but it is constantly postponed. In addition to speeding up the work of your government's ministers, I will table a motion that asks the government to submit the plans, the measures, the options that you are going to take to the screening assessment of the consequences of these measures. There are the consequences and assessment that you are required to do by law in environmental terms, administrative simplification, gender. Clearly, gender evaluation was not done. There is also a need for an assessment of the risks of precarisation included in these measures, the impact on working conditions and well-being. When the qualification of a suitable job is changed, consequences are created for the way in which the worker can live and can assume his or her status as a worker. If I ask you to install this screening assessment, it is because these elements are largely determinant of health. The second request is to make ambitious decisions about smoking and alcoholism and to remove existing legislation whose effects have been identified as negative in terms of human health. These provisions include those relating to the reduction of social rights and the reduction of income for a wide range of people.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic203x.u19	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Muriel Gerkens and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Muriel Gerkens and the Prime Minister's response, asks the government 1. submit its bills and policy options for prior assessment of the consequences of these measures - concerning, of course, gender equality and the impact on the environment as required by law, [[but also]] - on the risk of scarring, - concerning working conditions and well-being, and therefore regarding health impacts since more than 90% of our health status is determined by socio-economic and environmental factors; 2. to withdraw existing legislation whose negative effects have been identified, such as provisions on the reduction of social rights and income; 3. to make ambitious decisions aimed at limiting smoking and alcohol consumption by having health as a concern and not the financial interests of producers. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Muriel Gerkens and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Muriel Gerkens and the Prime Minister's reply, calls on the Government 1. to assess in advance the impact of the measures in its draft laws and political choices from the point of view of: - equality between men and women and environmental effects, as required by the law, but also from - the risk of poverty, and - working conditions and well-being at work, and hence the health effects, since our health status is determined by socio-economic and environmental factors for more than 90%; 2. to repeal existing legal provisions whose negative effects have been identified, such as those which reduce social rights and reduce income; 3. take decisive measures to reduce tobacco consumption and alcohol consumption on the basis of public health rather than the financial interests of producers." A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Philippe Pivin. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Philippe Pivin. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic203x.u20	Prime Minister, good morning. You travel a lot. It is not a reproach, it is necessary in your duties but there are meetings that are more questionable than others. From Friday 11th to Sunday 14th June the Bilderberg meeting was held, in which, according to information published in the press, you participated. If we have long known the existence of these meetings, very little information filters out what is being discussed, even though it is well known that they have a major influence on global or European political decisions. In the same way as before and after each European summit, you inform us of what will be and has been discussed, with a view to democratic control, it would be useful for our Parliament to be more informed of the content of the discussions held there and of any commitments made there. Prime Minister, can you tell me what the agenda for this summit was? In what capacity did you go there? Personally or as Prime Minister? Has this participation been deliberated by the government? What mandate have you received from him? If you have not participated in a briefing by Parliament on the issues at stake at this meeting, can you commit yourself to inform Parliament a posteriori of what has been discussed at this Bilderberg meeting? What was the previous practice, under previous governments, with regard to the participation of government representatives in these meetings and the information of Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic203x.u21	Thank you, Mr. Gilkinet. I was indeed invited to participate in the Bilderberg conference held in Austria from 11 to 14 June 2015. This invitation was addressed to me by the organizing committee of the Conference and I visited it as Prime Minister. I believe that the socio-economic changes that have taken place in Belgium since last year have probably motivated this invitation addressed to me, not to mention our country's place in Europe and its tradition of defending European values as a founding member. First of all, let me try, if possible, to demystify the Bilderberg Conference. This is not a meeting where conclusions or decisions are made. Therefore, there is no question of a mandate given to me, since there is no commitment or decision taken at such a conference, unlike a meeting of the European Council which ends with conclusions, hence the commitments which are made on behalf of the Belgian Government. It is not a summit, it is an exchange of views in the form of debates within the framework of the Chatham House rule, i.e. without publication of interventions. These are informal discussions that allow us to confront points of view and to meet key players, both European and American, without protocol. The aim, therefore, is, and this is the central question for me, to improve the level of information for participants on many subjects of general interest. It seems to me that, in my function, being properly informed is useful in trying to make relevant, informed decisions for the benefit of all citizens of this country. As far as agenda questions and participants are concerned, there is complete transparency as you simply have to consult the website. National politicians, representatives of international organisations, representatives of the academic community, journalists, scientists and representatives of the business community take part in this conference. The complete list is available on the website. To give some examples, to illustrate a little better and thus to answer your question perfectly, were present the Secretary General of NATO, my colleague Prime Minister Mark Rutte, the Chancellor of the Exchequer of Great Britain Mr Osborne, the Swedish Social Democrat Minister Mikael Damberg, the Councillor for European Affairs of French President François Hollande, but also the CEOs of large companies such as Volvo, Airbus or Ryanair. The issues discussed are mainly political, economic and security, with a number of issues that may be a little avant-garde but essential for the future. For example: artificial intelligence and future-oriented developments, important cyber security issues that we often talk about in Parliament, the serious problem of the deployment of chemical weapons, the international economic situation, the European strategy, globalisation, the situation in Greece, Iran, the Middle East, NATO, the relationship between the European Union and Russia, terrorism, the development of the United Kingdom in its relations with the European Union, the United States and the American elections. It was very intense, there were six sessions a day. Since these are discussions without formal conclusions or decision-making, they do not, as I have told you, give rise to a mandate from the government. According to my information, which historians may be able to verify in the archives, I am the first Belgian member of government to participate in this meeting. Therefore, to my knowledge, there is no practice or precedent in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic203x.u22	Prime Minister, I do not know if I should congratulate you on this first invitation. You are saying quite precisely that we must demystify what the Bilderberg summit is, but the problem with all these things that are a little secret is that we can ask ourselves questions about their content. The question I'm asking you is a question of democrats. You have been designated by our Parliament as our Prime Minister, you are supposed to represent us at best and we are supposed to exercise control over what you are doing. That's what I'm trying to do here. I take note of the agenda of this meeting, which was obviously exciting and which included issues essential for the future of our country and the world. You mentioned some of the participants. I wonder if there were representatives of NGOs active in the environmental sector. Were there workers' representatives or other social categories? I think the answer is no, and it is not annoyance with regard to the importance of fact that these summits have been able to take in decisions of global importance. It therefore seems to me to be legitimate to ask you questions about this meeting, since the subjects you have discussed there are not indifferent to us. I have tried to make my contribution to the knowledge of the citizens of what you have done on our behalf. We may have an opportunity to discuss it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic203x.u23	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Smeyers' 5276 was postponed. Since Mr Van Hees is not here, has not asked to convert his question into a written question or to be able to deal with it at another time, his question No. 5281 as repealed, on the basis of Article 127, tenth paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure. That completes the agenda.
