ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u1	Madam President, Minister, it is my responsibility that there is still a problem with the accreditation of laboratory technologists. This matter is regulated by the Royal Decree of 2 June 1993, which has the commendable aim of ensuring that the persons who perform this profession are fully qualified to perform their duties. The problem is that this order was not enforced until the Royal Decree of 17 April 2013 was adopted 20 years later and the approval procedure was adopted with the deadline of December 2014. In order to obtain accreditation, the Royal Decree of 1993 required that courses, internships, including the workbook, a recognized diploma or, in the case of a different diploma, a professional experience validated by an employer, be justified. As of December 2014, each person wishing to obtain the accreditation in question must therefore be able to provide these documents, which poses some practical problems. In fact, it is sometimes difficult to prove an internship or even to provide 20-year-old workbooks. Fortunately, work experience is a way of circumventing these difficulties, except that the required experience is 3 years before July 10, 1993. Minister, it is clear that this situation places many laboratory technologists in uncertainty about their future. The Belgian Association of Laboratory Technologists would have specified that every effort would be made to ensure that no one loses his job because of this accreditation procedure, but others would have argued that without the proper documentation, a number of examinations would have to be re-examined. Minister, I have no doubt that you are aware of this problematic situation. What answer can you bring to the legitimate concern of these many laboratory technologists?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u2	Mr Senesael, I am aware of this problem. In fact, the National Council of Paramedical Professions examined the problem of the accreditation procedure for the profession of medical laboratory technologists and medical imaging technologists and analysed the various applications for accreditation. The Council sent me an opinion containing a proposal to adapt the legislation on the criteria for approval, specifically for acquired rights. A draft bill on various health provisions is currently being drafted. This draft bill contains a solution to this problem. It allows persons who, at least three years before the date of 2 December 2013, already submitted certain acts of medical laboratory technologist to submit a request for derogation for these acts. It goes without saying that this solution is subject to adaptation by the Belgian House of Representatives and will only produce its effects after its publication in the Belgian Moniteur.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u3	Madam Minister, thank you for your very positive response. So you're going to solve the problem with laboratory technologists. On their behalf, I say thank you!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u4	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we recently read in the press that there would be a doctor's practice at the Brussels Central Metro Station. It is not an ordinary doctor's practice but a practice that aims to focus on passing commuters and only to offer stop and go medicine, in other words a quick treatment while waiting for the train. This initiative has made me frown the eyebrows. After all, we in Belgium are trying to achieve a health care system with an important task for primary care, especially for general practitioners, in which a link is established with the patient and in which thorough research leads to the random reduction of all kinds of unnecessary tests. However, according to the published articles, this is not what this practice is aiming at. There one will not build a relationship with the patients and do no extensive research, but quickly deliver a prescription, draw blood for battery tests and so on. Moreover, this practice is not on its own. It is, as it were, an antennae of a group of Brussels hospitals, and that worries me in particular. I cannot get rid of the impression that this is a way to get the commuters into the hospital network. Madam Secretary, how do you feel about this new initiative? I fear that we will have to deal with consumer care, where patients will undergo unnecessary investigations and be referred unnecessarily to hospitals. Will you make sure this doesn't happen? If so, how will you check it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u5	Madam President, Mrs Detiège, without questioning the freedom of establishment and without giving a prior opinion on any specific case, it is of course the case that every doctor's practice must meet a number of minimum quality requirements. Quality refers to appropriate professional qualifications and the environment of exercise, but also to professional expertise and deontological action. A proper relationship between doctor and patient enables a medical problem to be addressed in its context in a care process in which, although in various ways, continuity must be ensured. Of course, the necessary time must be guaranteed for qualitative care and for a correct relationship and communication between the physician and the patient. In addition to the general duty of care and deontology, there are a number of legislative requirements to be met by all medical practices. In this context, I am thinking, among other things, of the law on patients' rights and Royal Decree No. 78 on the pursuit of an occupation. For various elements of your question, I can also refer to the Code of Economic Law, where book XIV deals with market practices and consumer protection concerning professionals and includes provisions on misleading and aggressive professional practices. There are different control mechanisms for health care, for all medical practices. The traditional bodies responsible for supervising the exercise of the profession shall be the Order of Doctors and the provincial medical committees. In addition, the insurance institutions also carry out quality checks on the payment statements submitted. Then there is the Medical Evaluation and Control Service of the RIZIV, which also has the legal authority to act if there are indications of overconsumption. I am not judging, but like you, I am very careful and I am checking whether all the conditions are met to provide quality care.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u6	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It is true that the Order of Doctors and other institutions, such as insurance institutions, carry out checks. Unfortunately, but that is what the Belgian system is about, checks can only be carried out if there is a complaint. In this sense, our legislation is rather rigid. If one already suspects in advance that certain things may derail, one must wait for the derailment. This system has been in force in Belgium for years. I hope that this can be changed in the future, in the sense that there can be a proactive response.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u7	Mr Van der Maelen apologizes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u8	Madam Minister, since 2 July 2013, the United States and the European Union have been negotiating the conclusion of a Free Trade and Investment Treaty. The negotiations are conducted for the EU by the European Commission on the basis of the negotiating mandate approved by the Council in June 2013. Eight rounds of negotiations have taken place since then. Never before has the EU negotiated a trade agreement with the size and importance of TTIP. The two trading partners together represent around 40% of global GDP and a trade agreement would cover one third of world trade, to the extent of the largest bilateral trade relationship in the world. The US and the EU are also the main foreign investors for each other. This shows how closely the two economies are interlinked. Each in itself, the EU and the US are often among the main trading partners and investors of third countries. The agreement would therefore raise transatlantic agreements, such as product standards, to golden standards for the rest of the world. The main aim of the agreement is to remove trade barriers between the two markets as far as possible and to facilitate investment as far as possible: further reduction of import charges and quotas, facilitation of trade in services, the removal of non-tariff barriers, a chapter designed to facilitate and protect foreign investment, including, where appropriate, an arbitration mechanism for disputes between multinational companies and one of the Contracting States, discrepancies in intellectual property rights. All this should minimise costs for business and facilitate market access. The intended scope of the Convention is very broad and can have far-reaching consequences for our society, including the impact on our health care and health insurance. We must therefore be particularly vigilant. That is why I would like to ask you a number of questions which are all related to medicines. Mr Pehlivan will join with a number of other questions. Can you guarantee that tarification and reimbursement will be excluded from the TTIP negotiations, Madam Secretary? These are extremely sensitive issues which are also a national competence. If so, on which documents can you guarantee this? Can you guarantee that progress on the transparency of clinical trials is preserved in European legislation and is not compromised? If so, on which documents can you guarantee this? Can you guarantee that direct publicity to the user for prescription drugs will be excluded from the TTIP negotiations? Only with objective information can the patient decide what is best for him. If so, on which documents can you guarantee this? Can you guarantee that the national regulations of the Member States, which impose strict conditions for the sale of medicines on the Internet, will be enforced? If so, on which documents can you guarantee this? Can you guarantee that the market access of generic medicines will not deteriorate under the influence of any agreement on intellectual property rights, such as the extension of the patent period, data exclusivity or the introduction of patent linkage? If so, on which documents can you guarantee this? I shall then come to my penultimate question. Can you guarantee that the current European patent standards, as well as the exclusion of the traceability of diagnostic, therapeutic and medical methods for the treatment of persons or animals, as provided for in the agreement on the trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights or TRIPS of the World Trade Organisation, will be maintained? If so, on the basis of which documents? I come to my final question. Can you guarantee that the right to use the international generic name or INN for organic products will be guaranteed? If so, on the basis of which documents?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u9	Madam Minister, I agree with my colleague's explanation with a number of additional questions. In order not to repeat and use the time somewhat efficiently, I will go straight to my questions. Madam Minister, can you guarantee that TTIP does not directly or indirectly restrict the competence of national authorities with regard to the organisation of the health care system and health insurance, as well as with regard to the formulation of a health policy for the benefit of public health? If so, on which documents can you guarantee this? Madam Minister, the President has already said that Mr Van der Maelen is absent, but he asked me to apologize again explicitly, because he is currently chairing the External Relations Committee. I will not be able to wait for your answer, because I am also a member of the Committee on External Relations and I have to go there again. My colleague Maya Detiège will certainly give us your answer. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u10	Minister, as you know, the European Union is conducting negotiations on behalf of the Member States on the TTIP, TiSA and CETA projects in relative transparency. The concerns raised by these negotiations are undoubtedly numerous, particularly with regard to the potential impact of trade agreements on certain sectors. This is the case for health care. Furthermore, the ongoing negotiations on TTIP also raise concerns about major risks to health care in Belgium. According to Belgian mutualities, if national rules can be challenged in the future, this could lead to an increase in the cost of healthcare, notably through an increase in the duration of the monopoly for new medicines, and a delay in the entry into the market of cheaper generic medicines. This is achieved by putting pressure on health prevention policy, but also by easing the rules on advertising for prescription drugs and thus over-consumption of prescription drugs. The concerns are therefore enormous and legitimate. In your recent reply to my colleague Mr Di Rupo, who was also concerned about this situation, you said: "It is impossible for us to exclude the health care field completely from trade negotiations, since this area has already been partially engaged in the past. However, I am trying to avoid any further commitment from the Belgian health sector by ensuring that Belgian and European reserves are maintained." Minister, it seems to us essential to give maximum protection to our health care system and to avoid these negotiations being an opportunity for some to undermine the system. So could you tell us how you are going to make concrete efforts to avoid any further involvement of the Belgian health sector in these negotiations? In which European forum have you already defended this vision? Have you had any contact with Belgian mutualities and other healthcare actors in this specific context? Finally, would you be prepared to hold a debate on this subject in this committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u11	The TTIP negotiations, or negotiations on the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, are still under way. Moreover, it is the European Commission that is negotiating a new Transatlantic Free Trade and Investment Treaty. The answer to the question of whether it is possible to exclude the field of health care is: no. It is impossible to completely exclude the domain of health care from commercial activities, because there is a precedent. During previous commercial negotiations, this domain was already partly involved. The Members of the European Parliament of the various parties do, of course, have the right to ask their executives for more explanation. That's what happened. They have put their questions to the Commissioner responsible for Trade, Mrs Cecilia Malmström. My administration is actively following the trade negotiations, where possible, closely, in cooperation with the Foreign Affairs Office. As I recently replied in writing to a question from Mr Di Rupo, there is no question, in my view, of accepting additional commitments in the health sector. The commitments already entered into under the General Agreement on Trade in Services of GATS, which dates back to 1994, serve as a reference point here. Although I can understand some concern about the impact of TTIP on our health care system, I would like to refer to the recent joint statement on public services by Ambassador Michael Froman and European Trade Commissioner Cécilia Malmström. In this statement, they confirm that trade agreements between the United States and Europe do not prevent authorities of any level from providing or supporting services in sectors such as water, education, health care and social services. Trade agreements between the European Union and the United States do not prevent the establishment or maintenance of rules to ensure the high quality of services and to protect important public interest objectives such as health, safety or the environment. As regards the Investor-to-state Dispute Settlement Mechanism (ISDS), a number of security measures are likely to be introduced. However, I do not believe that the mechanism can serve as a basis for contesting our national rules, provided that the latter do not restrict access to the market and do not provide for an exception to the principle of national treatment. Moreover, I am confident that the European Commission will introduce sufficient guarantees into the Investor-to-State Dispute Settlement mechanism, as well as into the chapter on regulatory convergence, in order to ensure the right of States to lay down rules which pursue the legitimate objectives of protecting society, the environment and public health. In addition, the negotiating mandate is explicitly provided for. However, we must remain vigilant and the measures must not be disguised restrictions on trade. On 6 May there was a debate in the Committee on International Trade between the Commissioner responsible and the Members of the European Parliament on the ISDS mechanism.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u12	As regards more specifically the potential impact of TTIP on the pharmaceutical sector, the parties aim at the following development domains in TTIP. Firstly, inspections of compliance with production standards and mutual recognition of inspections are based on best practices. Secondly, as far as permits are concerned, we must avoid requiring the pharmaceutical industry to carry out the same studies twice in order to obtain a marketing authorisation. Thirdly, there is innovation. This is also about sharing information between regulators. You also had questions about the pricing and reimbursement of medicines. That remains a sensitive issue. The trade agreement may affect the right of the government to decide on the brake fee or the amount of the refund. As far as the pricing of medicinal products is concerned, I would ask you to contact my colleague, Mr Peeters, who is responsible for the matter. With regard to European rules on clinical trials, I support the policy of public access to the clinical data of the European Medicines Agency. This strengthens public confidence in the system. The Commission has also expressed the wish that the right of access should not be part of the negotiations. The prohibition of advertising of prescription medicinal products is a key element of the European system for medicinal products. It is very unlikely that this issue would be part of the negotiations. It is also an example of the application of the right of States to lay down rules to meet the legitimate public health protection objective. With regard to the sale of medicines via the Internet, Belgium submitted an additional reservation, in addition to the European reservation, to maintain in the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement the system introduced by the Royal Decree of 21 January 2009 on training for pharmacists and the Royal Decree of 10 November 1967 on the exercise of health care. If the final agreement uses negative market access lists, I will, of course, ensure that the reservation is included in the TTIP. For your questions on intellectual property, I must refer you to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Peeters. In our view, the international common name for organic products INN is not part of the negotiations. Like the administrations concerned, I will continue to be very attentive to the development of the dossier on the European scene, together with the SPF Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u13	Madam Secretary, I welcome your reply, given the new treaty that is coming. You say that Members of the European Parliament can express their concern at European level. That is true, but I am pleased that you yourself have made reservations on a number of issues, such as the sale of medicines via the Internet. You're talking, among other things, about a ban on publicity. I hope it is indeed unlikely that this will be part of the negotiations. However, if that is not the case, it would have a very negative impact on health policy in our country. I hope you will ensure that it does not happen and that you commit yourself to meeting the various points I have raised.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answers, which are quite complete, I must say. I obviously agree with the concerns of my colleagues, Maya Detiège and Fatma Pehlivan. As you mentioned, the negotiations are under way. But, as you know, the significant lack of transparency in these negotiations has often been denounced. That said, you understand the potential impact of TTIPs. I appreciate, moreover, that you are attentive to the issue and that you have put in place a follow-up at the administrative level. You said that the authorities would be left with all the latitude so that, at all levels, they could take charge of the matter in order to avoid any form of drift related to these treaties. Having said that, I believe you have not answered my question about possible contacts with Belgian mutualities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u15	I'm not sure about these contacts. I have to question my administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u16	That would be a good initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u17	Madam President, Minister, this month the Higher Council of Health issued a notice entitled "Nuclear accidents, environment and health in the post-Fukushima era", on the issue of thyroid protection. The Higher Council considers this to be one of the most important countermeasures to be taken in the event of a nuclear accident, a measure to which we must be absolutely prepared. The Council states: "In the event of a nuclear accident, the protection strategy is based on the rapid and large-scale administration of non-radioactive iodine to prevent thyroid uptake of radioactive iodine in accidental releases." The Council stresses the development and planning of a rapid distribution strategy for target populations at distances of up to 100 kilometres and more from the site of the accident. The Council also considers that populations with iodine deficiency are at greater risk. In Belgium, the risk of deficiency in iodized intake is particularly acute for pregnant and lactating women. The Council therefore considers it necessary to continue and monitor the implementation of programmes to improve iodine intake in Belgium. Minister, what is the status of developing and planning a strategy for the rapid distribution of non-radioactive iodine? Today, iodine is available to residents within a radius of 20 kilometres. Do you intend to implement the recommendation of the Higher Council of Health and extend the measure to citizens living at a distance of 100 kilometres? In this context, do you or will you start a consultation with pharmacists on the availability of iodine in Belgium? Are specific measures in place for the particularly vulnerable populations of pregnant and lactating women? This is obviously a shared competence between you and the Minister of the Interior and I do not know whether you have agreed on this. Finally, since Belgium is not an island, it is also important that we consult with the neighbouring countries, namely the Netherlands, Germany and France, in view of the situation of our plants near the borders.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u18	Madam President, dear colleague, in the event of a nuclear accident, the Higher Council of Health advises the administration of stable iodine to persons belonging to the risk groups, namely children, pregnant women and nursing women, within a radius of up to 100 kilometres of the nuclear facilities. Within a 20-kilometre radius, the recommendation to administer iodine to all persons, unless contraindicated, remains applicable. Allergic reactions to iodine are rare and a history of allergic reactions to iodized contrast agents or after local application of povidone iodized does not constitute a contraindication. In patients over 40 years of age, attention should be paid to the possible existence of thyroid pathology that may constitute a contraindication to the administration of a high dose of iodine. In accordance with the opinion of the Higher Council of Health, it is recommended that a detailed analysis be carried out, including within the Scientific Council of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. In this regard, I would like to refer you to my colleague the Minister of the Interior responsible for this matter. Following this opinion, it is clear that we will have new contacts with the Minister mentioned above, with whom we will work together. Indeed, you know that the dispatch of iodized tablets falls within the competence of the Crisis Centre, which is the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u19	Madam Minister, thank you. The opinion of the Superior Council was published in March. It's three months later. It is obviously important to work with the AFCN and the Crisis Centre, and therefore the Department of the Minister of the Interior. However, it seems to me that this issue must concern the Ministers of the Interior and Health. What matters to me, Madam Minister – and we have tabled a motion for a resolution to that effect – is not to ignore this opinion of the Supreme Council of Health. This could be expected on the basis, inter alia, of international literature. The radius of 20 kilometres was very small. It is very important that the Council has indicated the need to take into account a 100-kilometre radius. Very concretely, given the distribution of the various plants in Belgium, it is necessary to cover the whole territory. You may look as you like, but the various Belgian and border nuclear power plants need to cover the entire Belgian population. Minister, I am counting on you because this is a key element in the fight against thyroid cancer. I encourage you, together with the Minister of the Interior, to move forward in this direction and to ensure that iodine is available to all Belgians.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u20	Madam President, Minister, many people waiting for a transplant feel that they are in a tunnel from which they cannot get out. Some overflows then inevitably occur. Some use alternative medicines or even charlatans or crooks or make calls on Facebook or other social networks, as the press has reported recently, with all the drifts that this implies. In addition to physical suffering, it seems to me essential to take into account the psychological dimension of the suffering of people who are confronted with the systemic and economic realities of hospitals, who have to deal with their concerns during heavy treatments and who feel destitute in the face of the passing time. Without calling into question the functioning of the data banks at Belgian and international level, there is therefore the problem of the psychological supervision of patients suffering from serious, chronic or other diseases awaiting a transplant, which is a particularly difficult test to overcome. Minister, what psychological follow-up is currently in place for patients waiting for a transplant? Shouldn't there be additional means of psychological supervision, information or positive communication for these patients in order to avoid the drifts we have experienced recently? Should new measures not be considered to ensure effective coordination among the different care professionals involved in these difficult situations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u21	Madam President, Mr Blanchart, depending on the organ expected, it is true that the waiting time can be relatively long, especially for patients waiting for a kidney transplant. As you know, initiatives are being taken to reduce the waiting time and thus reduce the resulting anxiety. First, there is the national campaign beldonor.be which aims to raise awareness of organ donation. Secondly, we want to develop the transplant program in live donors, particularly through cross-transplantation. However, I am aware that waiting for an organ is and will always be difficult and difficult to accept for patients. The close circle of the patient also often experiences this waiting period difficult. We strive to provide support in this context. In the current context, the local transplant board of each university transplant centre always takes decisions in a collegial manner regarding the follow-up and management of recipients and live donors. These local councils are still in the opinion not only of doctors but also of psychologists and social workers. It is therefore a multidisciplinary management that acts on a case-by-case basis for the well-being of patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u22	Thank you, Minister. As I said to you, I absolutely do not want to question the operation of the data banks. It is important to realize the importance of this expectation, which can be fatal for a number of people who cannot be grafted quickly enough. If in general we talk about follow-up by social workers, psychologists and interdisciplinarity, in fact it is not always so. It must be noted. To avoid such drifts and to avoid psychological and physical suffering, it is important to put in place a real interdisciplinarity and, above all, in relation to these patients, a real adapted and almost systematic psychological follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u23	Madam Minister, this is actually a follow-up question, because a few months ago I questioned you in this committee about the disturbing use, or even abuse, of nitrous oxide in young people. Laughing gas is mainly used as a narcotic in the medical world, but it can also be found in whipped cream patterns. We have already talked about this. The purchase of nitrous oxide through these whipped cream patterns is relatively easy. More and more young people and students use these whipped cream patterns to have a mind-expanding effect. In your reply to my previous question, you said that your administration would carry out an investigation into this phenomenon and its consequences for public health. As I mentioned in my earlier question, the use of nitrous oxide can lead to nausea, vomiting, hallucinations and even long-term brain damage. In the United Kingdom, it appeared recently, seven people died from the use of nitrous oxide. Following on from my previous question in February, I have the following questions. Have you started your investigation yet? If so, are preliminary results available? What are the conclusions? If not, when is this planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u24	Mrs Hufkens, I have given a proper answer to your previous question. Laughing gas is not available on the market as a medicine. Slaggroom patterns are not necessarily my responsibility. Nevertheless, in the context of public health, I have asked for this situation to be examined. I asked the FAGG. They announced a first report before the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u25	Madam Secretary, that is a clear timing. I will continue to follow up on this dossier, even though it may not fall within your jurisdiction. This seems important enough to me to keep an eye on.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u26	Question No 4217 by Mrs Thoron is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u27	Madam President, Minister, my question follows on from a question about the role of care homes, which I have already asked. The responsibility for the care homes lies mainly at the Flemish level. However, in this case, those care homes could also play an important role in a pilot project that you are launching at federal level, namely the pilot project............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Let me outline the matter. Hospitals receive only residents or single persons when they are most vulnerable during a severe oncological treatment. Care homes actually offer a homely environment in which the patient, who often does not have a family to help them or to frame them, can relax and get the necessary follow-up or treatment. You recently announced pilot projects under your hospital plan that will enable chemotherapy in the home environment. Those projects would start in 2015. After a favourable evaluation in 2017, we could make sure that they become current in 2018. Pilot projects will be launched in collaboration with the oncology centres. In this context, I would have liked to ask you the following. Do you see a role for care homes in the pilot projects? If so, what role do you see for them? Will you contact the care homes yourself to discuss their possible role in this matter? When will you do that? What roadmap will you follow to inform all interested parties of the pilot projects and the criteria? How will you motivate them to set up a pilot project?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u28	Madam President, Mrs Hufkens, as you have read in my note devoted to the plan for the reform of hospital funding, the pilot projects will be launched by the end of 2015, to test alternative forms of organisation and funding, including by providing integrated care and encouraging transmural care. We are not even ready for a call from the pilot projects, which means that there is still a lot of discussion on the subject. There are therefore no concrete project proposals yet. After all, there will be an appeal and the proposals will, of course, have to be made on the ground. In the first instance, pilot projects will be limited to well-defined and well-defined diseases associated with highly standardised care pathways in order to avoid problems in the selection of patients. Among other things, the administration of chemotherapy at the patient's home is mentioned as one of the possible examples of pilot projects, as well as the intravenous administration of antibiotics for people staying in care homes. It was also stated that the concrete modalities of the pilot projects will be defined in consultation with the federated entities. The sector will also be asked to formulate proposals from relevant patient groups and organisational models for adapted transmural care. It is therefore too early to move on to the specific modalities that will be proposed to the sector, whether it concerns the actors to be involved, the role of the different actors or the target group of the call for applications. We are already defining a group ourselves, but the discussions on this are still under way. We must be able to consult enough to work this all out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u29	Madam Secretary, I understand you need time. You will also understand that one is in the sector asking party to go along with a number of projects. I think this should be a good signal, even if it is too early. It can be done before the end of the year, so that they can make a concrete commitment. This can also be a good signal for you that projects are being prepared on the ground and people want to cooperate. I would ask you to involve them, if possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u30	Absolutely. If we want to evaluate the pilot projects, there must be a proper demarcation of the data so that we can compare the data and possibly expand it. We will therefore first select and define the indications and the patients who may be eligible for them. That will be introduced to them. We have already given the signal to the healthcare sector to work this out and to think about the possibilities. Who else but the people on the ground could know about this? The dialogue is certainly ongoing. This is two-way traffic between the field and us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u31	That's how I see it. The sector's working on it. I think this is a real boost and a good pilot project.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u32	Question No 4279 by Mr Mathot is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u33	Madam President, Minister, the government agreement stipulates that the law of 10 May 2007 on transsexuality will be amended in the light of international human rights obligations. This means, among other things, that medical requirements must be removed from the law. Minister Geens is also taking initiatives to this end. So the trans-law is getting closer. In the meantime, of course, we must ensure that care for transgenders remains accessible. The Interfederal Action Plan against homophobic and transphobic violence provides for reimbursement of medical costs. It is mainly about hormones to stop the cycle, about testosterone substitutes, epilation and so on. In the inter-federal action plan there was also talk of promoting care by supporting three centres, namely the UZ Gent for Flanders, the Erasmus Hospital for Brussels and the CHU in Liège, for Wallonia. Are you planning to promote transgender care? Will you comply with the terms of the inter-federal action plan? Will you support the three Transgender Care Centres? What can they count on? Can transgenders expect a reimbursement of their medical costs in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u34	Madam President, Mrs Dedry, it is true that the 2007 law on transsexuality is actually the competence of the Minister of Justice. The Interfederal Action Plan against homophobic and transphobic violence dates back to 2013 and was developed in the light of equal opportunities policies. As far as your question is concerned, it is clear that I too am committed to promoting transgender care. It is only partially developed at present. Surgery is partly reimbursed, but the non-medical and pharmaceutical parts of the pre- and post-op of an operation are not currently the subject of a framework and full reimbursement. We are prepared to consider and study the reimbursement of medication in transgender care. However, the treatment of transgenders is not a registered indication for medicinal products. That's a first problem. Secondly, we are dealing here with the situation of off-label use of hormonal preparations. These preparations are registered for a certain indication, but not for this method of use. We already have the opportunity to make the refund for the antiandrogens Androcur and Cyproplex, as well as for the oestrogen gels Estriva, and Oestrogel for the male-female transgenders. We are now studying what can be done within the legal framework. You spoke of three reference centres for transgender care. Such recognition and funding do not yet exist within the federal powers of Health or Health Insurance. There is the willingness to give transgender care and disorders of sexual differentiation a place. This means that an expertise or reference centre with associated networking can be created. This fits perfectly into the philosophy of the reform of the hospital landscape, but prior study work is certainly still needed to identify the needs and to design a care model on which a broad consensus can be found. In the context of the national action plan lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex, it is always expanding, but I think we have them all there with that that the coordinating Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, Mr Sleurs, is preparing, we will also make proposals for improving transgender care, within its plan, which, as you know, will be transversal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u35	Madam Minister, I have one further question for clarification. If you say it fits the philosophy of the hospital landscape, do you mean you're going to one reference center?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u36	It should not be just one, but of course 14 will not be needed in Belgium, as the prevalence is very low. In fact, I believe that we need a number of centres of expertise, but also with networking to other hospitals because accessibility and accessibility are important for patients. They're people who have to go to the hospital a lot. Throughout the cycle of a few years they often have to move around, so it is important to work through networking.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u37	Question No 4304 by Mr Brecht Vermeulen is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u38	Madam President, Minister, I would like to come back to this issue because I have been particularly concerned with some points. In April 2015, you indicated by press release that the CRM analysis showed that there was insufficient scientific evidence that eculizumab, i.e. Soliris in Belgium, works as a preventive measure before and after a kidney transplant in patients suffering from the rare disease of atypical hemolytic and uremic syndrome (AHS). You then proposed the trail of section 81 of the Royal Decree of 21 December 2001. First of all, I will focus on the scientific elements. I have made a copy of the most important articles in the scientific literature that demonstrate the effectiveness of a post-graft prophylactic indication with a risk, I recall, of 80% of SHUa recidivism in the first year after renal transplantation and 0% of recidivism under eculizumab. I'm going to send you a copy of all these inescapable articles, and I'm going to suggest you look at them. Belgium is the only country that reimburses eculizumab and refuses it as an indication of post-graft prophylaxis, unlike France, the United Kingdom, Spain, etc. No country that reimburses this treatment excludes it for the prevention of recidivism on the renal graft. Today, the situation is blocked between the CRM which refuses the refund and the firm Alexion who did not file on the basis of Article 81 of the Royal Decree of 21 December 2001. In practice, it is the patients who are the hostages and the victims of this situation! I would like to draw your attention to this point: this condemns them not to be able to benefit from a transplant and to remain in dialysis since they are in terminal renal failure. Indeed, transplanting a SHUa patient without Soliris into prophylaxis amounts to taking a major (80%) risk of recurrence of SHUa, which is ethically unacceptable, not only for the patient, but also for other patients waiting for transplantation. Taking such a high risk of losing a kidney transplant while it is known that renal grafts are largely insufficient, given the number of patients waiting and the waiting time before transplanting, is therefore ethically untenable for the patient himself and for other patients as well. On the other hand, in terms of the budget, the state does not earn anything because it is known that dialysis costs much more than transplantation. Similarly, refusing to transplant a patient into dialysis as a result of renal failure is also ethically unacceptable, as it amounts to condemning him to remain in dialysis for the rest of his life, even though, in other neighbouring countries, the same patients in the same situation benefit from this treatment with a recidivism rate of 0% after transplantation. Minister, the situation is all the more disturbing because patients today in dialysis, whether they are children or young adults, since they are the ones who are affected by a SHUa, had received the very clear commitment of your predecessor. Some had even begun their pre-graft assessment, convinced that they would be able to receive a transplant under treatment with Soliris. It matters to me today to find a solution for the patients on this file. We can't afford to let the time pass. Yesterday again in France, a patient was offered great chances by grafting him under Soliris, even though he had made a SHUa. Every month that passes for our patients in Belgium makes the situation increasingly untenable and unacceptable. Minister, could I have the report of the Reimbursement Commission for Medicinal Products? It is time for transparency, especially since this report would conclude that there is no scientific evidence - as your press release says - while the scientific literature proves exactly the opposite. On the other hand, what steps are you taking to get out of the current blockage and above all to get the patients out of this "hostage" between the state and the firm? Are there any alternatives to section 81? Are they explored? I am thinking in particular of the track of Article 56 of the AMI Act allowing, through an agreement between insurance and a centre, to obtain a derogation of financing to be defined at the level of the centres. This article could be an alternative to trying to get out from the top of this situation, especially for patients who are taken hostage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u39	Mrs Fonck, the reports of the Reimbursement Commission for Medicinal Products (CRM) are available on request from the INAMI Commission Secretariat. The current literature includes only case reports to which the lowest probative level is attributed. The clinical evidence based on this case report is too weak to justify a definitive refund at the requested price. Discussions are under way with Alexion and, in this context, consideration is being given to existing alternative avenues which may lead to reimbursement of Soliris in patients eligible for kidney transplantation, in order to prevent recurrence of SHUa after transplantation. Since difficult discussions are still under way, that is all I can tell you today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u40	Minister, I will turn to the secretariat of the INAMI Commission for the MRC report. As I have taken the trouble of making copies, I will transmit to you the scientific literature that I have at my disposal. I draw your attention to the fact that the SHUa is excessively rare. It is therefore obviously impossible to have a study of a large cohort of patients for such a rare pathology. There is a solid scientific literature but no mega cohort of patients, it's impossible! I carried out a small macroeconomic analysis of the relative cost of one track or the other. My conclusion is that for state costs, it would be more interesting for these young patients to get a transplant quickly. This would allow for rapid savings not only in health care but also in other aspects, such as all aspects of work. I therefore urge you to find a solution for those patients who are truly taken hostage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u41	I insist that the CTGs are not used to not consulting the literature.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u42	That is why I propose that we look at the opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u43	You will consult the notice and, eventually, you will rest a question. First of all, consult the opinion and, if we have to come back to the subject, it will be argued!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u44	Madam President, Madam Minister, my question concerns the reduced course of study in healthcare. For, among other things, certain relevant pre-training courses, there is the possibility of obtaining the title of healthcare professional through a shortened course. From some CVOs and students we have received signals that the conditions for such a journey are not always clear and conclusive. Now you may think that it is not an immediate competence that can be discussed here. The problem is, however, that the CVO's refer to the FPS to have it assess whether or not the students are eligible for the shortened course. The FOD in turn refers the students to the VDAB, who again refers them to the CVOS. That's how we saw that communication. Especially for individual situations, it is not easy to get out of it. I give a very concrete example, in which we have had access. It is about a midwife who passed for the first year as well as for the first semester of the second year. The different CVOs all propose different routes with different exemptions and different individual provisions, or with no exemption. Each CVO had its own trajectory. That is why we are calling for clarification. First of all, who exactly and under what precise conditions is eligible for this reduced path of care? In this concrete example, will a midwife who has succeeded in the first year and in the first semester of the second year be eligible for a shortened journey? Who should make the final decision? Why is the person concerned eligible or not? Is it true that successful first-year nurses get a visa for healthcare professionals anyway, while successful freshmen do not get a visa in that context? There is also a great deal of uncertainty about this. If a difference is made, what is the difference? How does it rhyme with the fact that midwife can be employed as a nurse, whereas that cannot be the other way around? Is it correct that, if that difference exists, it will be reviewed? Secondly, will you take steps to communicate the criteria more clearly to the CVOs and the students, so that they can no longer be sent from the cabinet to the wall, but that they can, for example, get the correct information at one central point?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u45	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, there have been sufficient and precise criteria for this matter since 2006. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the Communities have been competent to interpret these criteria since 1 July 2014 and the sixth state reform. I'll give you a little overview. Anyone wishing to be registered as a care professional must comply with the conditions set out in the Royal Decree of 12 January 2006 concerning the registration as a care professional. Since then, for the last time on 3 April 2013, this has been regularly amended and currently contains several possibilities and clear conditions that must be met if you wish to register definitively on the basis of transitional measures or on the basis of a diploma. There is scope for interpreting the notion of "Diploma" for certificates obtained after vocational training. Even when it was still a federal competence, the National Council for Nursing regularly asked the Communities what certificates could or could not be approved. The list of these certificates, including for the shortened sections you are talking about, which were approved at the time, can be consulted on the website of the Public Health Office so that legal certainty can be provided. Since 1 July 2014 and the sixth state reform, we are no longer competent to comment on possible interpretation details. For that I must refer you to the Communities. As far as the difference between successful freshman nurses and freshman midwifes is concerned, first-year nurses who have passed can obtain a medical visa, but not successful freshman midwifes. The reason for this can be found in the registration criteria set out in the Royal Decree of 12 January 2006 and in the fact that the training in midwifery is a specific training covering at least three years. Since 2001, midwifes are no longer nursing practitioners; midwifes can still be employed as nurses, but the opposite cannot of course be done. It is also an extinct scenario, as Article 149 of the Health Act of 10 April 2014 provides that midwife or physiotherapists who obtain their diploma after 1 October 2018, the technical nurse benefits in kind and the medical activities entrusted to nursing can still exercise in a number of services, namely in the context of obstetrics, fertility treatment, gynecology and neonatology. On other services it will no longer be able to perform nursing duties. So there has really been a division of competences between the midwife and the nurses, and that is, in my view, a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u46	Thank you for the clear answer, Madam Secretary. I'll pass it on.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u47	I admit there's a lot of information on the FPS Health website. It may not be obvious that this information can be traced back to it, but I have been told that it is on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u48	Madam President, Minister, in 2013, Plan Garde provided for the regulation of "weekends and public holidays" by the introduction of a single telephone number on 1733. So far, in the province of Liège in any case, it is difficult to set up this system. I believe that two major problems exist: on the one hand, the sorting protocols would not have been validated by the Public Health FPS and, on the other hand, the amendment of Royal Decree No. 78 which delegates to the staff of Centre 112 the choice of response to appeals has not entered into force. In the province of Liège, to compensate for the absence of 1733, a large part of the circles of general practitioners were, in the meantime, managed in the deep night by nurses of the emergency department of the CHU as part of a project led by a doctor who was a doctoral emergency doctor. In the case of centre 112 in Liège, two tables are ready for 1733, the I-Emergency programme is installed and in order of march, but these means are insufficient to meet the increasingly pressing demand of the circles. In addition, no personnel have been trained in protocols 1733 and for nearly ten years, no adequate surface space has been found by the Régie des Bâtiments. Minister, can you take stock of the 1733 system? Which provinces benefit from this scheme throughout their territory? What about sorting protocols? When will they be validated? What about the change in delegation to staff at Centre 112? What is your analysis of the situation described above in Liège? What measures do you intend to take to remedy this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u49	Madam Secretary, I will not go into too much detail. My colleague has already asked a lot of questions, and I believe that we have already dealt with a number of issues last time. However, I would like to come back to one point and ask for a state of affairs, particularly in the light of the introduction of the number and the coordination of the operation of the emergency and waiting services. That's what we talked about last time. You then referred in your reply to the agreement plan which the National Committee on Medical Men's Funds would provide for by 31 March. In the meantime, however, I have been able to read in the Doctor's Newspaper that some things are still stuck. In the article we read that no progress has yet been made and that the committee is dependent on the guidance committee, where the dossier has apparently been stalled at the moment. There are therefore a lot of questions, including the emergency services and the general practitioners. There's still a lot of uncertainty. That's why I'm asking. What is the impact of the delay? What does this mean for the further timetable? What steps will you take to ensure that the consultation on that agreement plan is carried out?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u50	Mr Gustin and Mrs Van Peel, originally a roll-out of the number 1733 was planned in three phases in Belgium. In the first phase, all medical circles have the possibility to link the general number to the number 1733. If a patient calls 1733, the call will also be forwarded to the call number of the doctor's circle linked to the postcode that the patient has to enter before. In the second phase, the number 1733 is linked to the 112 plants. The necessary protocols are being drawn up for this purpose, but they are still subject to quality tests. If necessary, these protocols will be amended. The protocols will not be approved by me as Minister of Health until they are operational. As regards the legal framework for the 112 plants, the third phase, there would be by the end of 2016. The necessary additional staff and technical support should also be provided. The necessary protocols are also being drawn up for this purpose. The number 1733 could only become operational after this. For Flanders, a state of affairs has been established. The province of West Flanders has currently completed phase 1 and is partly in phase 2. The other Flemish provinces choose to wait for the results of the test in West Flanders. If the results are positive, they too will continue to roll out. In Wallonia, the regulation by emergency power station 112 is applied throughout the province of Hainaut, except the city of Charleroi. For the province of Namur, the sorting is effective for the gathering of Namibian generalists. Centre 112 of the province of Luxembourg offers complete regulation to its circles, to the Union of General Practitioners of Dinant and to part of the Association des généralistes de l'Est francophone. The rest of the AGEF is integrated in 1733 in phase 1. By dialing 1733, the caller did not benefit from regulation via a 112 emergency power station, but was directly redirected to the medical secretariat of the circle. A working group on Protocols 1733 Wallonia has been in place since January 2015. A Working Group Protocols 1733 Flanders has been launched since January 2015. In Wallonia, each province is represented by two general practitioners involved in the custody of general medicine. These are surrounded by a Belgian emergency doctor responsible for sorting CHU and a staff member of the SPF Santé. They meet two to three times a month. The protocols are to be finalized and validated in the first quarter of 2016. This is a great job. The small premises and the lack of staff at Centre 112 in Liège do not currently allow an extension of 1733 while maintaining the guarantees of good management of emergency calls. It is difficult to find durable solutions in the short term. In the medium term, a regionalization of calls 1733 on one or two 112 centres could be established and the situation corrected. It's a partnership. The medical aspects are our competence. There is also a lot of work to be done on the 112 centers. In this context, Mr Jambon and I paid a working visit to the centre in Leuven last week. There is still much work to be done in the form of more staff, a larger staff and more room for training. So there's still a lot of work for my cabinet and the Home Office at the 112 centers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u51	Minister, thank you for this answer, which tells us that there is still a lot of work to be done. However, I would like to stress a certain urgency, linked to the great concern about the non-validation of sorting protocols so far. It is a great concern of those people who work and who have to reorient the sick, the people who call. I will also question Minister Jambon, who has the Régie des Bâtiments in his jurisdiction, in an attempt to find a solution for the building.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u52	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I understand, therefore, that as far as the protocols are concerned, including on the cooperation of general practitioners and emergency services, the schedule is in itself preserved. You think this is still realistic?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u53	Only by working and consulting can one realize it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u54	It would be interesting anyway if we could come back to this if you did have the protocols and they were already sufficiently tested. We can then look at exactly what they look like, because there is some concern on the ground. This is, of course, always the case in the event of a change.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u55	It will take the last quarter of the year to take stock.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u56	Madam Minister, the problem that I am going to address concerns my beautiful territory of Thudinie, whose reputation is well known here. Over the past few months, several bodies of hairless foxes have been found in different parts of this highly wooded area. They succumbed to the sarcoptic scab, a microscopic acarian that slips under the skin, causes strong itching, the hair fall by whole plates and a strong weight loss that can lead to the death of the animal. This parasitism is very contagious, the transmission being made by direct contact between mammals: wild animals, dogs, cats and even humans. We must therefore avoid touching sick foxes and protect ourselves with gloves before handling their corpses. It is also advisable to give dogs and cats a preventive treatment against fleas, which also protects against scabies. It is also preferable to consult a veterinarian if a domestic animal is contaminated, so that it determines the appropriate treatment according to the intensity of the symptoms, the lesions and the general condition of the animal. Currently, the foyer appears to be located in the cantonment of Thuin's DNF (Department of Nature and Forests). I would therefore like to ask you, Madam Minister, the following questions. What is the extent of contagion of this disease? Have any other areas been affected? What are the risks to human beings? What are the arrangements to be made by cities and municipalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u57	Mr President, Mr Blanchart, I understand that this is a great concern for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u58	I live in the woods. I am a man of the woods, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u59	Mr Blanchart, the fox's sarcoptic scab caused by Sarcoptes scabiei, a vulpis variety, is a serious and very contagious fox disease. The consequences of an infestation are sometimes very serious. The general condition of the affected foxes is strongly affected and the parasite can even cause the death of the animal, which is obviously the case in your area. The disease appears to be epidemic. At the fox population level, there appears to be a gradual adaptation of the host and parasite to a less serious disease. There would even be cases of spontaneous healing. Transmission is by direct or indirect contact between animals. The mites survive only briefly outside the host. Temperature circumstances also play a role. Preventive treatment is not to be advised in dogs and cats, the cat's scab being caused by another species. However, some products used for flea prophylaxis have some activity against scabies. I have no further information on the extent of the disease in Belgium, apart from the cases reported regularly and which you know. The sarcoptic scab of the fox or dog can be transmitted to the man by direct contact with an affected animal or the corpse of a dead animal shortly before contact. Fox or dog mites are not suitable for humans and infestation is temporary, although lesions and symptoms may be present for a few weeks. They say four to six weeks. People at risk are primarily hunters. There is no risk to the general population without contact with foxes. There is no possible contamination from the environment. It is not advisable to touch a fox body – you have warned the population – not only for the risk of transmission of scabies but above all for the risk of infestation with Echinococcus multilocularis, namely the fox tenia and cause of alveolar echinococcosis. However, on the basis of the police regulations, local authorities can always take into account temporary measures such as the obligation to use a leash or prohibit access to forests with a dog. Dogs should not be allowed to run, since they inspect their environment by sniffing with the truffle.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u60	I propose, since the minister has answered both of my questions, that the second question be raised if it is not to be read. The first case is less dangerous, it is not fatal to man, but it is nevertheless very embarrassing. To counter the latest outbreak of fox rage, the Department of Waters and Forests had thrown pellets into the woods from a helicopter. They have managed to stem rabies, which, as everyone knows, is a very serious and contagious disease for human beings. As far as echinococcosis is concerned, it is quite different. The larva of this parasite can develop in humans. According to veterinarians, this could affect the liver and destroy it completely, which is deadly. Perhaps, if the epidemic spreads, we should consider using methods such as those used to combat rabies. Anyway, thank you for your answers. The important point is that preventive treatment for domestic animals should not initially be provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u61	But active vigilance is needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u62	Madam President, Madam Minister, at the request of INAMI, the Interuniversity Epidemiology Unit carried out a survey on the oral health of the Belgian population. It was conducted with 1,187 of our fellow citizens between February 2013 and April 2014. Some results are worrying. Indeed, although improvements can be observed in comparison with the previous survey of the same type carried out in 2011, it is still apparent that almost 6% of the sample analysed was "completely edented". For those aged 65 and over, the survey shows that this proportion is close to 15%. In addition, education is found to be a key indicator in that, among the most educated workers, the rate of educated people is only 1%, while it is 14.2% for the least educated workers. Finally, it seems to me to be interesting and important to note that 16.4% of the respondents indicated that they did not go to the dentist because they had financial problems. Minister, we are all aware that the good oral health of our fellow citizens is important to the extent that it affects their quality of life as well as their overall health. With longer life expectancy, the issue of access to dental care becomes more crucial than ever. As we can see, the report to which I am referring shows that the lack of information, but above all the lack of financial resources, contributes to poor oral health. Measures must therefore be taken to remedy that situation. Madam Minister, I have no doubt that you have had the opportunity to read this report. Do you share the conclusions I have just drawn that adequate information and better access to care would contribute to improving the oral health of our citizens? What concrete measures do you intend to take to make dentist services more affordable for our citizens and thus prevent an ever-increasing proportion of the population from postponing their care for financial reasons? Finally, are there or will there be contacts with federated entities to improve information for citizens on the need to go to dentists on a regular basis?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u63	Madam President, Mr Senesael, I can confirm that I have read the second report on the recording of oral health data for the Belgian population. The results were presented by the Interuniversity Unit on Friday 5 June at 1 p.m. at INAMI. I share your concerns about awareness and access to dental care, which are two levers that must maintain, and even improve, the oral health of our fellow citizens. Since the second reform of the State, the Communities and Regions have been responsible for awareness-raising campaigns in dentistry, which have been organised by INAMI since 2003. I am following developments on this issue closely through the Interministerial Conference on Public Health. The draft nomenclatures of the National Dento-mutualist Agreement (Dentomut), which will enter into force shortly, will reimburse the new types of dental care through health care insurance, as is the case for emergencies. An important part of the Guidance Note on Dental Care in Health Insurance, which is annexed to the National Dental Mutual Agreement, is devoted to their accessibility. The note provides for the possibility of including tariff agreements for techniques which are not included in the nomenclature in order to ensure this accessibility. We are making progress, but there is still much work to be done in this area. Up to now, the most advanced techniques were not covered by the refund.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u64	Madam President, Madam Minister, you are giving a concrete answer to the questions I have asked you, and I thank you for that. On this occasion, you referred to the two levers in the information, prevention and responsibility of the Communities, the federated entities of our country, while remaining vigilant in this regard through the Interministerial Conference on Public Health. In addition, you mentioned a series of additional interventions that could be developed for oral care. I intend to send you a written question to let you know more technical and practical modalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u65	Question No 4394 by Mr Raf Terwingen is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u66	Madam President, Minister, my question is somewhat dated. Last time I tabled my question a little too late, so I could not join in the plenary, where a debate was already held on the dynamic register, including a question from Mr Van Peel. However, my question has remained on the agenda. That is why I have updated my question and asked about the current state of affairs. In our discussions this morning, I heard from my chairman that a meeting on the land register will be held in this committee within two weeks, and we would also receive figures. I will certainly put the questions to you in that committee meeting. My concern is where we stand today, and I think my fellow Members share that concern. I read a lot of things. In French-speaking Belgium there is a draft decree to introduce a filter after the first year. I have read the draft text of that decree and it is not very flattering for you and for us, for the federal principles that we advocate. The incomprehension about us continues to insist on a numerus clausus at the beginning of the studies, and it is even said that we are incomprehensible and absurd. Furthermore, it is argued that the installation of a filter after the first year should be sufficient to guarantee that all students will receive a RIZIV number after their studies. In the first draft decree I also read that there will be work with a filter where 45 credits out of 60 will have to be obtained. It is only a draft, but that first text does not reassure me very much and I suspect that you feel the same way, Madam Minister. That is why I am asking about the state of play. The intention is to get that decree through Parliament before the summer recess. That is why, Madam Minister, I am asking for your opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u67	I too note the need to update my question, which was tabled on 12 May. Questions were raised in plenary. I do not always participate very actively in this committee because I am not a permanent member. I understand that an analysis of the results of the study will take place. When we read the first recent figures on the cadastre project, which aims in particular at objectiveing the debate on the granting of INAMI numbers, we can very easily see the risk. This could not be the case in the North, and the numerus clausus would not be necessary for the cause. But in the South, if I stick to the numbers, we could experience a shortage of doctors. There were 16,144 general practitioners, compared to 15,274 today. This decline has been observed for eight years and continues on the same train. By reading articles, I see the aging of our doctors. There are only 28% of 45-year-old physicians, while 10% are over 65 years of age. The profession seems, and this is not new, very unattractive for young people. Do you confirm the risk of a shortage of general practitioners in the coming years? Should we not take into account inactive doctors – there are, and I know – in the distribution of INAMI numbers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u68	Madam President, Minister, I will not mention the land register, because we have agreed in committee to discuss it one of these days. One has something to do with the other and the other has nothing to do with it. Quotas until 2021 are fixed and the demand for filtering dates back to the end of last year. I agree with my colleague and I agree with Mr Muylle's intervention in the sense that what is now before me at first sight does not seem sufficient in many areas. It's important to know what you're thinking in the meantime. In the plenary, you replied that you had only just received it and could not have looked at it, let alone had a legal opinion on it, because I believe that there is a serious problem on the legal front too. Even apart from that legal sting, regardless of the absolutely great question of whether the filter will be sufficient and of the absolutely great question of whether students should once again begin a year of possibly thrown away studies, I am frankly tired of feeling constantly laughing at what you have proposed in this dossier. Constantly, responsibility is placed at a level where it does not belong rather than to itself. I have the feeling that the filter at the end of the year is only a proposal to come back to after talking about the land register. I certainly want to rule that out, because those two should be separated in the first place. Madam Secretary, my question is the same as Mr Muylle's. I'm just asking about a state of affairs. I realize that I have asked this many times, but you will agree with me that time is running out and the question is pressing. In the meantime, was there any consultation with the Regions? Did you get any advice? Is there a timetable in this file? Has an end point been set for this discussion?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u69	This is very important for the students and for the parents who are the sponsors of the students. I've been around a generation, so that's what I'm thinking. The dynamic register was approved at the Planning Committee's plenary session on 8 May. More than fifty reports can be found on the FOD website regarding the medical activity situation for each of the 34 specialties. There is also a summary report of more than 70 pages. It contains the essential elements for each of the medical specialities. I have offered to come to the committee with a PowerPoint presentation to see how this has been built up, what the possibilities are and the aspects that are taken into account. It is now premature to wish to draw conclusions in one direction or the other. The cadastre of active doctors is only the first part of the work. Indeed, on the basis of an understanding of the current situation of the labour force, the Planning Committee must now draw up scenarios concerning this labour force by incorporating a whole series of parameters which we have already discussed here, for example demographic changes, changing consumption of care or age. We will be able to have valuable information on how the workforce will evolve in the coming years, taking into account demographics, which differ from one Region to another. It is on this basis that the Planning Committee will be able to give an informed opinion on the quota and set quotas for the years 2022 and later. In the interests of prudence, the Commission decided in its plenary session on 8 May to maintain the current quota of doctors in 2021 (1 230 doctors per year). In the coming year, it will work on scenarios and will then be able to establish quotas for the years 2022 et seq. on the basis of a thorough and comprehensive analysis of the situation in Belgium. It is an important challenge to eliminate imbalances. It is certainly essential to encourage doctors to opt for specialties where there is still a chance to practice their profession here, for which there is still an offer. In the past, minimum quotas were set for the specialities that had difficulty attracting doctors, but this way of working did not produce the expected and hoped effects. There are still professions, such as geriatrics, whose numbers are still too low and for which quotas are never filled. Moreover, following the sixth state reform, the Communities are now also responsible for these subquotas. With the dynamic register and the scenarios that will be developed for each speciality, we will be able to identify the specialities for which action is needed. These actions need to be thoroughly examined as soon as there is a full state of affairs. Mrs Van Peel, as regards our common interest, the preliminary draft decree of the French-speaking Community is a draft text which was briefly introduced and explained by the representatives of Minister Marcort at the meeting of 21 May 2015 of the IKW Care Occupations of the Interministerial Conference on Public Health. I must say that this text has given rise to many questions. You say it may be funny, but I haven't heard anything yet about that preliminary draft in Waver yesterday. On the contrary, parents and students in the French-speaking Community are very concerned. It frowns the eyebrows in everyone's eyes. In the meantime, the content of the preliminary draft decree, the explanatory memorandum and the article-by-article discussion has also been analysed by the lawyers of my administration, as I had announced. The double limitation imposed on non-staying students raises questions. A maximum of 30% of non-residents can be enrolled in the first year of the bachelor's programme and the non-residents can account for up to 30% of the eligible students of the competition. Therefore, the non-residents are subject to different rules than the other ones and the word "possible discrimination' is never far away. The inequality that might arise from the fact that the same group of students is subjected to different examinations, because the competition should also be organised in each faculty of medicine separately, also raises questions. According to my administration, this decree can therefore certainly give rise to comments from the Council of State. The content of that opinion, as far as it is to be given, is not yet known to me, but I am really waiting for it with great interest. I believe it is necessary that this opinion of the Council of State can also be discussed in the IKW of the Interministerial Conference. If the decree does pass the test of the Council of State, there is an opportunity to appeal to the Constitutional Court for destruction. I have therefore written to Minister Marcourt a comprehensive letter with my concerns about this, because I have serious reservations about this. I have also taken note of the announcement by the Government of the Flemish Community of a number of measures to amend the entrance examination organized by the Flemish Community for many years. I asked the question to discuss these new adjustments during the IKW. It remains my wish to make progress on this complex issue as soon as possible within the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health. Nevertheless, I myself sent a letter to Minister Marcourt explaining my great concerns and taking up the advice of the lawyers of my administration. They had to examine to what extent this draft could pass the test with the opinion of the Council of State and/or the Constitutional Court. I haven't been able to laugh at the situation of the students for a long time either. There was a nice compromise on the table. The problem is, however, not only with medical students, but also with veterinary students and dentists in the French Community. One must wake up and knock on the table. A whole generation of students and their parents are always important in this regard too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u70	We will be given more information on the register at the committee meeting scheduled in two weeks' time. As far as the follow-up to the decree is concerned, that is not only Mr Van Peel's concern, we share your view. You rightly raise two concerns about the text. Apparently, there's still some kind of lissage option. You say that the trial will be organized by university, with half the same questions being asked. This means that there will be differences, which will lead to different figures in ranking and results. So one doesn't actually work with an equal exam, so one makes another opening in the lissage. We certainly share that concern. What bothers me, too, is the tone of the decree. In the introduction, for example, it is said that it is impossible to continue to believe that the federal level does not abolish planning. It is very clear that we are asking for the planning to be abolished, and many reasons are given for this: ageing, growth, the replacement of doctors who retire. However, these reasons are identical in Flanders. I don't have to convince you, Madam Secretary. I can only say that you have our support to maintain the direction you are taking today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u71	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answers. We will have the opportunity to deepen the figures. I'll try to be there when we have this more didactic analysis. I hear your alarm cry and I share it. I'm not laughing either, Madam Minister. At the level of the French Community, it is important that decisions be taken in the near future. As you rightly say, doctors, medical students are targeted, but they are not the only ones in this situation. Other student fields are also. It is about the future of an entire generation. I think the information went well. In any case, I will try to get it through so that perhaps decisions can be made faster at regional level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u72	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I hear you've had certain points tested legally. What do you do with the legal test of the filter at the end of the year in the beginning of the year? A problem has also been created in the past. Of course, it's the whole basis of that decree. I'm tired of the whole issue, too. After a while people start to wonder what we are actually still doing here. That is why my question was also whether a deadline should not be set at some point. The draft decree is intended to be adopted before the summer, but in the IKW the Communities will also have to express their opinion on it and there must be an agreement. So we're de facto late. No matter what happens, students who want to start this study now do not know what they are going to do. That's just terrible and actually degout. What I find most disgusting is that the blackbird keeps coming back in our direction. You have said it quite a few times and I do not know how much you need to repeat it again, but I am afraid it is still necessary. I think we really need to set a deadline. You have always said very clearly what the consequences would be if there were not what was to be on the table. Maybe it's time, even if it's bad for the students involved. Then the ball is where it should be.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u73	I just want to say that my letter to Minister Marcourt is written in plain language. For Francophones the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u74	To be continued, I'm afraid. We'll hear about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u75	The date of June 30 has been set to discuss the cadastre with you? Can this date be maintained? (Minister's assessment) I assume this is in line with the deadline you set for the Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u76	The issue of Ebola is included in the programme law. Issues must also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u77	Madam President, Minister, after a number of sudden deaths in our football and other fields, some alarm bells have been ringing in the media and in the public over the last few weeks. Colleagues Cardiologists received urgent calls from worried mothers about their six-year-old soccer players. Experts appeared in the media with a strong opinion, and others with a more nuanced attitude. As we both know, the subject of preventive heart screening in literature is complex. The sensitivity and specificity of the available tests lead to expensive but not efficient screening, according to the report of the Knowledge Centre. This does not, of course, remove the unrest among the population. As a result of the third state reform, prevention became a competence of the Länder. Flanders is taking a number of clear initiatives in this area through Mr Muyters. Given your practical experience, I would like to receive an answer to the following question. How difficult is the distinction between a preventive heart examination, which is not paid back by the RIZIV because it is about prevention, and the examination of someone with vague complaints based on anxiety? The latter will be refunded according to RIZIV legislation. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u78	Madam President, Mr Vercammen, you are asking how difficult it is to distinguish between a preventive heart examination and an examination of someone with vague complaints based on anxiety. I cannot judge that from the practical experience, but I must consult the law for that. If the cardiologist certify correctly, he or she must respect Article 2 of the Regulation of 28 July 2003 implementing Article 22, 11° of the Law on compulsory medical care insurance and benefits, coordinated on 14 July 1994. That article states: "In no case shall medical care insurance cover cover the costs of benefits in kind required by employers, private institutions or public authorities. In particular, the benefits in kind provided for the purpose of delivering certificates of suitability or certificates required by sports clubs, unions or other private bodies shall be considered. If the examination is carried out in the context of the delivery of a certificate or screening, it cannot therefore be charged to the health insurance institution. The other cases, even where the patient has vague complaints, can be investigated by the cardiologist and the health insurance will intervene for the consultation and for the necessary examinations. I believe that this distinction is correct and that it can be continued. You know that sudden death is a condition that occurs in a certain percentage of the population, that does not always have an age and that, unfortunately, it does not have a direct influence on whether or not to do sports, what one eats or not. Sudden death also occurs in children. So that remains a great concern for the people, especially now that more and more cases are reported in the media of footballers and basketball players, but also of ordinary people. People hear that all the time. We know there's a certain incidence. The question is indeed to what extent screening can predict who belongs to the risk group and what can be done. It is not obvious to obtain scientific evidence that screening could save someone's life. And that's exactly what it's about: can screening help save a life?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u79	Madam Minister, your answer was clear and it is enough for me, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u80	Madam Minister, in February I asked a question about stock breaches. I am also waiting for the answer to a written question I have put on this subject. In the meantime, I have received a number of reactions. I therefore have a number of additional questions. Should both hospital pharmacists and official pharmacists report the latter to the FAGG through wholesale stock breaches? Or does the obligation apply only to hospital pharmacists? In the event of a stock breach, officials may call on the hospital pharmacists. What is the main reason for the stock breaks, in hospitals or officans? Which of them will be delivered as a priority? Based on what criteria does this happen? Are there guidelines on the exchange of unit doses between hospitals or with officials? After all, these units are medicines per piece, without usual cardboard packaging. Can they actually be used in case of major emergency in the event of stock breaches? Does the FAGG have the responsibility to suggest an alternative in the event of a stock breach? In other words, should it not just say that there is a stock breach, but also provide a solution? Who exactly is the FAGG linking back to? Does that happen to the hospital pharmacy or the official? Are the patient associations also involved in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u81	Mrs Van Camp, pharmaceutical companies which hold the marketing authorisation or registration of a medicinal product, and are therefore responsible for the commercialisation of a medicinal product, are legally obliged to report any information relating to the placing on the market and to the temporary or permanent cessation of marketing to the FAGG. In practice, it is also true that there are reports of those involved, such as hospital pharmacists, official pharmacists or sometimes even patients, who inform the FAGG about a possible stock problem of a medicine. Contrary to pharmaceutical firms, they are not obliged to report this, but they often do so out of necessity, so that a solution to the deficit can be found as soon as possible. At present, we do not have any parameters on which we can base ourselves to distinguish statistically between the unavailability in hospital pharmacy and in official dispensaries. The registered unit packs should follow the distribution chain of the classical registered medicinal products, i.e. from authorisation holder to other authorisation holder, from authorisation holder to hospital pharmacists or from authorisation holder to official medicinal products. Consequently, the sale or exchange of such medicinal products between pharmacies, whether they operate in a hospital or in an official state, is not permitted. The repacking of conventional registered medicinal products is permitted under certain conditions and may be outsourced in so far as the relevant laws and regulations in force are respected. It is primarily up to the company responsible to find a solution in the event of a temporary unavailability of a medicinal product which can be considered essential for public health. They may request a temporary derogation from the Advisory Committee for, for example, imports of foreign lottery tickets. Employees at the FAGG evaluate the reported inaccessibility. If they consider that the unavailability can cause problems, additional information will be published on the FAGG website, which is also useful for health professionals, so that they can better help the patient. The FAGG website, accessible to all, also publishes the list of medicinal products temporarily unavailable for which the company responsible has previously informed the FAGG that they are commercialised in Belgium. That list shall be updated daily. Recently, lists of recent changes have also been available to improve the understanding on the ground of the new stock problems, the re-availability of medicinal products and those for which the stock problem has been extended. The communication on the publication of unavailable medicines has so far been addressed only to health professionals. The reason for this is that, in a first phase, we want to examine whether the information on the FAGG website is sufficient and user-friendly and whether it contributes to an improvement in the field. Later, communication to the public and patients may also be considered. First of all, we want the publication to help to ensure that the necessary arrangements are made to avoid the stock breaches as far as possible. We also see that this is a problem not only here but also in the neighbouring countries. The question then arises as to whether there are alternatives. All this is not easy for the patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u82	Madam Minister, two weeks ago, the committee adopted a resolution to improve the diagnosis and approach of CVS. An important part of this is the monitoring and evaluation of the current CVS diagnostic centres. A rehabilitation agreement was approved by the RIZIV Insurance Committee on 16 September 2013. The field of action shows that the candidate diagnostic centres are difficult to meet the criteria. If no center is adequate, in theory no patient can be treated according to the current nomenclature of kinesi therapy either. Reference centres are closed, diagnostic centres do not appear to be active in practice. Diagnosis and care are the most multidisciplinary, according to international recommendations, which is no longer possible. I therefore have a few questions, Madam Secretary. Is that right? How many centers have registered since the convention? How many centres have been effectively accepted as diagnostic centres? Which centres are they talking about? How many patients were already treated by the diagnostic centres, separately and collectively? How many notifications in kinesi therapy until the start of a CVS treatment were reported to the various health insurance funds in 2014? Then who prescribes these kinesi therapy sessions? Is that a legitimate practice? Do the rules meet the international criteria? In such cases, may sickness funds pay sixty hearings, knowing that diagnosis and treatment cannot be carried out in accordance with the rules of the nomenclature? Are there any consequences for prescribers and treating kinesis? What is the total amount paid in the meantime? What measures can, in the short term, offer solutions to ensure the quality of care for both patients and care providers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u83	Madam President, Ms Van Camp, after the end of the agreements with the reference centres, a new text of agreement was drawn up by the RIZIV for the multidisciplinary diagnostic centres for CVS. The aim of the agreement was, among other things, to repay the evidence-based treatments; cognitive behavioral therapy and gradual practice therapies in the first line are evidence-based treatments. Six hospitals submitted an application file, five of which were accepted. In August, the RIZIV received a letter from a number of selected hospitals asking for fundamental adaptations to the agreement, including the possibility for CVS patients with more complex problems to receive treatment in the centre itself. On the basis of scientific recommendations, the RIZIV has decided not to respond to this question. The importance of the first line is also confirmed in the resolution recently discussed by this committee. The UZ Leuven is the only hospital that considers it feasible to implement the agreement. The center started in early April and has a yearly capacity of 250 patients. The implementation of the agreement will be evaluated and the trial period of the agreement will end in 2018. With an estimated incidence of 20 000 patients, this is insufficient, but cooperation from the field of work is obviously necessary in order to achieve such agreements. In connection with the reimbursement of kinesi therapy for chronic fatigue syndrome, the following problem arises at present. Physiotherapy benefits can only be reimbursed by means of the terms of the so-called F-list, which includes reimbursement at the highest rate of sixty ordinary sessions per year. The condition for this is that the reference centre has assessed graduated practice therapy as meaningful. Because these reference centres are no longer functioning, new patients will no longer be able to meet that criterion. As the F-list treatment can be extended after the initial notification, this kinesitherapy treatment can still be reimbursed within the F-lists for patients who have been charged in the past in a rehabilitation programme in such a reference centre. So it's a problem for new patients. This inequality needs to be eliminated and the Technical Board for kinesitherapy is therefore developing a nomenclature change for a specific scheme for CVS patients. You're asking for numbers. These can only be obtained by a specific collection of data from the various sickness funds. You will understand that this is not possible within the time frame of a parliamentary oral question. I therefore recommend that you do so by means of a written question. After all, there are many mutualities and we have to ask for these figures from each individual.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u84	Madam President, Madam Minister, I will certainly do so. I am aware that I am asking for a number of figures, but that was mainly to emphasize..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Although you mentioned a capacity of 250 patients, I understand from the field of work that they have currently treated zero patients. In this context, it would be very strange that refunds for new patients have already been made. By means of a written question, I will look at how many cases this has already occurred. Apart from that, if so few centres can meet the criteria, I wonder to what extent the agreement is realistic enough. The aim is to allow a number of centres to operate. I do not think it is the intention of this agreement that only one centre should sign up and treat patients, which is not even happening now because they are not actually able to meet those conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u85	Those centres have decided not to comply with the conditions. They weren't denied, they decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u86	Then the conditions may have been too difficult to achieve.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u87	That's what I'm saying. There must be the will to go along with that on the ground. Apparently, other centers asked for an adaptation that was not scientifically supported. Then there is no agreement with those centres either. Everyone is free to cooperate. Funding Centres is a strong injection and then there has to be a result on the ground. If they do not find it feasible for themselves or if they cannot fully commit themselves to working on it, then little will change on the ground either.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u88	I think this is a strange fact. From our contacts with the field of work, this does not seem to be due to the unwillingness of the field itself, but to the criteria imposed which are unfeasible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u89	Madam President, Minister, Depakine is one of the most effective drugs against epilepsy. However, it is also one of the most dangerous for babies when given to pregnant women. We're talking about Valproate syndrome. The child whose mother took this medication during pregnancy is between 30 and 40 per cent at risk of developing cognitive or neurological disorder and 10 per cent of these children are at risk of developing physical malformations. If the problem has apparently been known for more than 20 years, it would appear that preventive measures have been slow to arrive. Depakine has been re-evaluated very recently as the European Medicines Agency and national agencies have tightened restrictions and strengthened information for professionals and patients. Minister, why did it take so long for the dangers of this drug to be recognized and for the first precautionary measures to be taken? Is there not an alternative molecule that would prevent pregnant women from putting their child(s) at risk? What do you intend to do to avoid new cases in the future? Trials are currently under way in Belgium to determine liability in this case. Do you have any information about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u90	Madam Chair, Madam Minister, I am not going to repeat what has already been said by my colleague. In May 2015, the Agence nationale française de sécurité du médicaine et des produits de santé issued an opinion on the strengthening of the conditions for prescribing and delivering specialties based on Valproate and derived from the risks associated with their use during pregnancy, particularly the risks of infant malformations. The European Medicines Agency confirmed in December 2014 the need to be extremely vigilant and strict with regard to the benefit-risk ratio of all these medicinal products in women of childbearing age and pregnant women. I found out there was a Belgian association of Valproate victims. For French-speaking Belgium, it is made up of about 20 affected families and it is looking for other families in Flanders. Minister, do you have any data for the whole of Belgium, whether they are mothers or babies, victims of Valproate? Does the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products, as France has done, study the need to change the conditions of prescription and issue? Should not public information campaigns be carried out, particularly for people who are currently being treated with one of these medicines, so that they can tell their doctor from the beginning of pregnancy or avoid stopping treatment without consulting their doctor following this information in the press? Stopping this treatment overnight without an alternative is not a good plan either in terms of their basic pathology and, in particular, in terms of epileptic disorders.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u91	The teratogenic risk of valproic acid has been mentioned in the package leaflets since 1984. The main factors that determine this risk have been added since 1994. The preventive effect of folic acid supplementation has been mentioned since 1998. The effects of valproic acid on neurological development were later identified and reported in the summary of product characteristics since 2003. The recommendation to switch from valproic acid to another anti-epileptic when a pregnancy is planned has been mentioned in the package leaflet since 2008 and following the publication of new studies in 2013, a re-evaluation was undertaken in October 2013 by the pharmacovigilance risk assessment committee of the European Medicines Agency EMA. Most data indicate that valproic acid, more than other anti-epileptics, increases the risk of congenital malformation and may have a negative impact on cognitive functioning and increase the risk of behavioural disorders in children exposed in utero. Based on this data, pharmacovigilance risk assessment assessment recommends that valproic acid should not be used to treat epilepsy and bipolar disorders in women of childbearing age and pregnant women, except in the absence of an effective and well tolerated alternative. The Summary of Characteristics has been updated with these enhanced warnings. For all indications attributed to valproic acid, there are alternatives to the first-line administration of valproic acid in women who wish to have a pregnancy. The role of product and package leaflet summaries is to describe the characteristics of the risks and minimize the risks through warnings to ensure that the health care professional and patient are well aware of the risks, and that Valproate will only be used when strictly necessary. This role has been regularly fulfilled in accordance with well-known issues at that time. Most importantly, Valproate cannot be prescribed to girls and women of childbearing or pregnant age unless other treatments are ineffective or not tolerated. Pharmacovigilance risk assessment also recommended that educational material be provided to all health professionals and to women who are prescribed Valproate. In addition, treatment with Valproate will be initiated and supervised by a physician experienced in the management of epilepsy or bipolar disorders. Physicians will be asked to reassess the treatment of girls and women on a regular basis. Holders of marketing authorisations for valproate and related substances shall carry out a study of the use of the medicinal product to assess the effectiveness of risk minimisation measures. I can confirm that an action against the Belgian State and the doctors is under way at the Court of Appeal in Liège.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u92	Minister, I would like to thank you for your answers. You mentioned the alternative molecule, the training of professionals and the labelling. These elements are extremely important. Even if it's not your fault, I'm still a little frustrated by the fact that it took so many years to measure that the effects could be as dangerous for pregnant women. For other medicines, results that allow them to be questioned should be achieved more quickly. The search for new drugs is very positive, but negative sides are still possible. Procedures should be found to reduce the time of concern. It reminds me a little of the Softenon kids. That's what I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u93	Minister, thank you for your answers. The deadline is a question. I have heard what you are saying about the 2003 and 2008 records and the timing of the various re-registrations. It's actually late. Some cases have not been avoided, although they may have been avoided on the basis of research already carried out. I would like to make a proposal. As you said, Valproate and its derivatives should be avoided in women of childbearing age and pregnant women. You know as well as I do that there is not always an effective and well tolerated alternative. These women are told to come back in case of pregnancy. You know as well as I do that time passes and these young women sometimes forget. I wonder if it would be worth it, Madam Minister, to ask the Federal Medicines Agency to consider the following proposal: for Valproate and derivatives, and I am going to extend the point to all teratogenic drugs, it would be to put a visual logo on the box. How many people are going to read the package leaflet from A to Z? Some yes, others much less. Above all, they don't read it again when they're used to the medication. A branded pregnant woman logo, visually very simple, placed on the teratogenic medicine box could prevent severe malformations in children in these patients, for Valproate but also for other teratogenic medicines. Even if this is mentioned in the package leaflet, these women do not read it regularly. Could you see with the Agency if this trail is interesting to explore?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u94	Question No 4512 by Mrs Nathalie Muylle is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u95	Madam Secretary, I come back to a question I asked you about Belcam ID in February. You replied that you had instructed your administration to investigate the matter further. After all, this case has been dragging on for some time. I found questions from the previous legislature. Madam Secretary, has the matter been further investigated? Has the company now filed a full application file? Your previous reply did not show this to be the case. So now we have a licence for identification chips? How come the company can still distribute chips without a license? Will the FAGG take action on this matter now? If so, when? Will you give the order for this? Do you agree that the powers of dog trafficking are fragmented? Are you considering setting up a task force to cover the various competent services? Animal health of animals entering the food chain has remained a federal competence of the BFSA, but the control of the import and export of pet animals is only entrusted to the BFSA through an agreement at the level of the administrations of the FOD and the BFSA. Why has the control of imports and exports not been transferred to animal welfare? Are you considering doing that anyway?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u96	Belcam ID has not submitted an additional dossier to the FAGG to obtain a marketing authorisation for a medical device. There is currently a judicial investigation against the company concerned. The FAGG will fully cooperate in this investigation. No further details may be disclosed in the context of the confidentiality of this investigation. Allow me also to correct the information contained in your question. The animal health of all domestic animals, whether they are kept in order to enter the food chain or as pet animals, falls within the federal competence, entirely in line with the law of 8 August 1980, the special law for institutional reform. The law of 4 February 2000 entrusted this competence to the BFSA, which falls within the competence of Minister Borsus. This competence also includes health checks during import and export. Animal welfare has been a regional competence since 1 July 2014. Consequently, the control of animal welfare in the context of imports and exports should logically belong to the regions. The other animal welfare controls during import and export movements therefore remain the responsibility of the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u97	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u98	Madam President, Minister, Belgium, which is a member of Eurotransplant, is particularly active in organ transplantation and is ranked second or third in the world ranking each year. However, waiting lists remain long, especially for the kidney and pancreas. In 2014, 422 people benefited from a transplant. A sad finding tempers this positive note, however, since 88 people who were on the waiting lists have died. Since 2005, organ samples may be taken from persons who use euthanasia. These organ removals cannot, however, be done in all persons requesting euthanasia. They usually occur in patients with neuromuscular or psychiatric diseases. Overall, very few people who use euthanasia propose to give their organs. For example, in ten years, 21 euthanized patients have voluntarily given their organs. As a result, 84 bodies were removed from this framework. Minister, can you give us an estimate of the number of current donors in Belgium? What about the evolution of this figure in recent years? How do you explain that the possibilities of taking samples still fail to meet the growing demands made in our country by people for whom a transplant is vital? Various ethics committees have expressed support for the removal of organs from persons who have been euthanized, even though they have made different recommendations. Could you tell us the content of the latter? Have all transplant centres received information on these recommendations? Is systematic information about organ donation provided to patients requesting euthanasia? What about the practice of organ removals in persons unable to demonstrate their will because of their mental state, but carried out with the consent of their legal representative?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u99	Madam President, Minister, I would like to add my question to the previous questioner. So I can shorten the introduction, because it is about the same thing: we are the frontrunner; yet there are still too few organs. Since 2005, patients receiving euthanasia can also donate organs, albeit under very strict conditions. This has already been mentioned by the previous questioner. In ten years time, only 21 patients have donated only 84 organs. Do those numbers make sense? Do you see an evolution? Do you know what the situation is in other countries? What will you do to make the organ donation better known in euthanasia? Are patients asking for euthanasia informed about this? In what way exactly does that happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u100	Madam President, Mrs Dedry, Mr Blanchart, as of December 31, 2014, our country had a rate of 25.3 donors per million inhabitants. This percentage represents 282 donors actually collected. In terms of transplantation and for all organs in 2014, a total of 795 procedures were completed. You have asked me for the figures for the last few years. In 2013, there were 306. In 2012 there were 320 and in 2011 322. In 2014, as already mentioned, there were 795. The high number of organ donors makes Belgium a frontrunner in Europe and the world, but indeed there is still a relative shortage of organs for transplantation. Only a small part of the available organs therefore have the required quality. The campaign beldonor.be wants to raise awareness among the population about organ donation to increase the number of donors. The law also provides for the possibility of a living donation. We are currently looking at how to remove the remaining practical and financial obstacles to living donation. The first euthanasia-associated sampling procedures were carried out in Belgium in 2002. Organ donation after euthanasia is an extremely sensitive subject. Care must be taken to ensure that the euthanasia decision is taken independently without taking into account the possibility of organ and/or tissue donation. I leave it to the hospital ethics committees to establish guidelines on this matter. The Bioethics Advisory Committee has not yet given an opinion. I would point out that most people who ask for euthanasia suffer from a condition that makes safe organ donation and transplant impossible in any case. So this is actually just a niche of patients with non-transferable and usually neurodegenerative diseases or, and that is even more delicate, with hopeless psychological suffering. The possibility of organ withdrawal after euthanasia must of course be applied and assessed completely independently of the euthanasia application. With regard to your question about the removal of organs after euthanasia from persons unable to demonstrate their will, on the basis of the law of 28 May 2002 on euthanasia, this assumes that the person has filed a valid advance declaration and is in a situation of irreversible unconsciousness. When a person unable to express his or her will dies, he or she, like everyone else, is considered a potential organ donor, unless he or she has explicitly opposed it. In practice, the feelings of relatives, including the legal representative, are also taken into account. The will of those close to the deceased will therefore not be dealt with differently. The attitude and sensitivities of the family are always taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u101	Minister, thank you for clarifying things on such a sensitive subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u102	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u103	Madam President, Madam Minister, according to a report presented to the European Parliament recently, there are "8 to 12% hospitalised patients in the European Union who are reported to be victims of adverse events, including infections associated with care, whether nosocomial or not, much of which could be avoided." Moreover, according to this report, among the infections associated with care, those caused by multidrug-resistant bacteria are said to cause 25,000 deaths per year in the European Union. The magnitude of these infections and deaths would be explained by the ever-increasing cuts in the health care sector that have a direct impact on the quality of care or by the lack of appropriate national programmes. As we know, budget cuts in the health care sector have been adopted by your government. Minister, do you have any data you can provide us with regarding the number of patients in hospital who are reported to be victims of adverse events and the number of deaths that can be attributed each year to multidrug-resistant bacteria in our country? Are you considering new measures to further combat this type of infection? Among the solutions envisaged in the European report on the subject, it is advisable not to cut back on health budgets but, on the contrary, to invest in continuing training, monitoring of medical services and early warning systems. What is your position on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the KCE Reports 102B shows that in Belgium, 103,000 patients are infected each year with an infection linked to care received in hospitals. The KCE estimates that, each year in Belgium, about 2,600 people die prematurely during their hospitalization from nosocomial infection. In terms of infection control, many efforts have already been made by the authorities in the previous decade. If you wish, I will give you a list of the efforts that have been made. In short, all jurisdictions that play a role in controlling infections are ready to strengthen coordination and mutual cooperation. This enhanced cooperation will be linked to the work carried out under the above-mentioned themes. Each body will fulfil its role under the coordination of the federal platform. In addition, the revision of hospital funding through the introduction of a p-type element for quality offers an opportunity to give infection control, which is one of the fundamental pillars of quality of care, increased attention and resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u105	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I remember the important figure you mentioned: 2,600 people would die in Belgium as a result of these infections. It's an inquisitive thing! On the other hand, I agree with your more than laudable intentions regarding the quality of care and the attention you wish to give to it. Let me stress, however, that while additional funding is needed to combat this scourge, continuing training and monitoring of medical services is an important pillar that needs to be addressed. Also, I count on your foresight and vigilance to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u106	Questions No 4537 by Mr André Frédéric and No 4538 by Mr Éric Massin were postponed. Joined questions Nos 4550 and 4761 by Mrs Yoleen Van Camp and Maya Detiège are also postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u107	Madam Minister, the question is still topical in the context of clinical studies. In the event of sharpness and impact media reports on excessive prices that some pharmaceutical companies ask for certain orphan medicinal products to be made available. In this often recurring discussion, research and development, clinical studies, production and market introduction are inextricably linked. All these elements need to be taken into account in order to achieve an integrated approach that meets both the needs of the companies that invest in them and the needs of the patients who need to be able to obtain an affordable medicine. To give this more shape and guidance, the Biopharma platform now exists in our country. The current government agreement states that the platform will be maintained in order to create a stable regulatory framework and to support and promote R&D activities in the Belgian pharmaceutical sector. At the beginning of this year Catherine Rutten, the current CEO of pharma.be, has also given a boost to anchoring this high-level consultation. Mr Minister, first of all, what is the current status of the Biopharma platform? Can you explain the operation, frequency of meeting, structure and organisation of this platform? How do you explain the very limited transparency of the platform's activities? Secondly, the government agreement states that you want to create a stable regulatory framework for supporting R&D activities in the Belgian pharmaceutical sector. Where do you stand with that? What steps have you taken to achieve this? What steps can we expect in the short term? Today, of course, you have already stated that the KCE should be directed towards effective independent clinical trials. We would like to hear from you in what way and on what time that should be done. Thirdly, at the time, Deputy Prime Minister Alexander De Croo argued for a strong variation in the lifetime of patents for the pharmaceutical sector. I believe that there is now a limit to 20 years, independent of investment costs. How do you feel about that? Do you support that suggestion?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u108	Mrs Van Hoof, the Biopharma platform is indeed intended to support and promote R&D activities in the Belgian pharmaceutical sector. It aims to initiate a dialogue with the pharmaceutical industry with regard to my powers, but also to a wider one. The latter concerns, among other things, Belgian taxation and the labour market. As jurisdiction has a cross-cutting factor, coordination is in the hands of the Prime Minister. It goes without saying that I will give all my support to continue to make this initiative a success, so that Belgium can remain a frontrunner in biopharmaceutical research and development. Within my powers, therefore, I am working on a stable framework for the Belgian pharmaceutical industry and I hope to be able to make my proposal known in the coming months. Colleague and Deputy Prime Minister De Croo has provided an interesting track to shorten the innovation cycle of innovative medicines. Patent law is, of course, a competence of colleague Peeters. Moreover, this issue could only be addressed at European level. As regards competition in our off-patent market, I would like to refer, among other things, to the definition of "cheapest prescription', which has been applicable to all prescribers since 1 January 2015. This measure was budgeted at EUR 30 million. I can also refer to the deepening of the reference refund, the R6, which has to yield more than EUR 26 million in structural terms. I believe it is important to create the stable framework, also in view of the necessary initiatives. That would really give oxygen to the pharmaceutical companies in our country. I think it's gonna be a win-win situation. We are working on this. We will continue to negotiate and come out with our proposal as soon as possible. Finally, the study of the KCE already includes that clinical studies should also be co-financed or financed by the public authorities. There is a consensus that such a thing should be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u109	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It would be a huge step forward if independent clinical studies, such as those already carried out abroad, could be carried out in order to achieve a real price. I recently read about hepatitis C treatments from EUR 60 000 to EUR 120 000 and cancer treatments between EUR 50 000 and EUR 100 000. That's really not acceptable for a patient. Those stories will keep coming back. There's also growing awareness of orphan diseases. On the other hand, an expensive medicine is put in place. That's good for the pharmaceutical sector, but not for the patient. Sometimes patients are called in to ensure that certain medicines are refunded. We must be able to stop these practices. I look forward to your proposals, but it is not insignificant that the sector is also advocating the Biopharma platform, because it looks at various aspects across the board. The cases are not considered purely from a pharmaceutical point of view. Among other things, the tax aspect is also taken into account. I would like to repeat the warm call so that we can meet regularly in Biopharma. It is an initiative which has been launched under the Verhofstadt Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u110	Yes, but the Deputy Prime Minister also has his role to play in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u111	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u112	Madam Minister, the European Commission has been strongly influenced by industry in recent months. She had to make a new definition for hormone-distorting substances. That has now been postponed until the end of 2016. This delay means that hormone disruptors, such as bisphenol A, which have already been asked many questions here in committee, continue to cause serious harm to our health. Effects on obesity, on fertility, on testicular cancer, breast cancer, prostate cancer and also on negative developments in children are becoming increasingly apparent. I therefore have the following questions for you. Firstly, do you have figures and what are the most recent figures of the influence of bisphenol A on health in Belgium? Secondly, there are many hormone disrupters. What other hormone disrupters do you think are potentially harmful? Are there any figures? Thirdly, do these hormone disrupters indeed have a wider impact on obesity, fertility, autism, testicular cancer and so on in Belgium? If so, does the government intend to restrict these substances? Is the current government considering an impact analysis? Such an analysis has been agreed within Europe. However, it deals only with the economic consequences. So is she considering an impact analysis, which also maps out the health effects of hormone disrupters? It is all a question of whether you take these effects of hormone disrupting substances seriously on our health.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u113	Mrs Dedry, I have a very technical explanation for you here, and you know that hormone disruptors at federal level are the responsibility of three ministers. My colleagues, responsible for the Environment and the safety of the food chain, also follow the products in which these substances are incorporated. European legislation on this is also very important. Many substances can disrupt the functioning of endocrine glands and therefore have adverse effects on health. The problem of hormone disruptors is therefore very wide. These may be medicines, but they may also be cosmetics or chemicals that are present in everyday consumer goods and, of course, in food. The latter are chemical contaminants, such as mycotoxins of the type zearalenones, contact materials or pesticides. In accordance with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and European Regulation No. 178/2002 must be based on a risk analysis for any measure taken. As regards bisphenol A, in January 2011 the European Commission prohibited the placing on the market of suction bottles containing bisphenol A for children between 0 and 1 years of age. This decision was taken at the time at the request of several EU Member States, including Belgium, on the basis of the precautionary principle and despite divided scientific advice. They've chosen the safest. Belgium subsequently took national measures and prohibited the use of bisphenol A for products specifically intended for children between 0 and 3 years of age. The latest scientific opinion on bisphenol A is the opinion published by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) on 21 January 2015. The Authority has carried out a comprehensive re-evaluation of the toxicity and exposure to bisphenol A and concludes that this substance does not present a risk to the consumer, regardless of the age range of the foetus, infant, adolescent or adult acetamide at the current exposure level. The evaluation of the exposure from different sources of food, dust, cosmetics, thermal paper...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It's called the tolerated daily intake. I would also point out that the safety limit was reduced from 50 micrograms per kilogram per day to 4 micrograms per kilogram per day to eliminate any risk. Belgium is in favour of harmonised action at European level. The European Commission is currently preparing a document to be discussed at the next meeting of experts on materials and articles intended to come into contact with foodstuffs. The purpose of this document will also be to propose new measures in the field of bisphenol A and to align the legislation with the opinion of EFSA.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u114	I always start with the positive, but now I see only one positive point, Madam Minister, in particular that Belgium has always used the precautionary principle in this matter. I fully agree with that. On Monday we saw the very well-known and renowned André Cicolella from France, who was the leader there to curb hormone disruptors. Research shows that these products cannot be based on threshold values and cannot claim that they do no more harm from a certain low quantity. I therefore do not follow the EFSA studies, but other scientific sources. If Belgium really opts for the precautionary principle, there is still hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u115	Catherine Fonck transforms her question No. 4574 into a written question. Questions Nos 4594 and 4619 by Nathalie Muylle and Monica De Coninck are also converted into written questions. Mrs Renate Hufkens asked for the postponement of her question No 4613.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u116	Madam President, Minister, I was pleased to read that you want to increase awareness of the reimbursement of smoking cessation sessions by tabacologists. That is a very good thing. I fully agree that this is a good hand-off that many people are calling over the line. Moreover, the number of refunds is increasing. Following the World Tobacco Day, the National Coalition against Tobacco is asking for a number of other measures. One of them is to extend the smoking ban in public buildings and catering to the car if there are children in it. Apparently, the concentration of toxic substances in a closed car is ten times higher than in a smoky café. Children are, of course, particularly sensitive to passive smoking. Such a ban already exists in France, Ireland and the United Kingdom. I have also read that even the Neutral Syndicate for Self-employed can understand this position, as they put it. That was in the context of their comments on the view of the packaging, the neutral packages, for which the concept is, by the way, much smaller. Madam Secretary, what is your position on smoking in the car? Are you considering investigating or introducing such a ban? More generally, what is the state of play regarding the transposition of the European Union's latest tobacco directive, which also includes neutral packages? I am particularly interested in the measure concerning the smoking ban in the car with seated children.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u117	Madam President, Mrs Jiroflée, I personally regret that adults choose to smoke in a closed environment in the presence of children, given the negative effects on their health. After all, children have no freedom of choice, they cannot leave the car if a cigarette is lit. This debate is not only taking place in our country, but the United Kingdom has also recently approved a ban on smoking in cars in the presence of minors. In France, a similar text was recently adopted by the National Assembly. My services will continue to monitor how this measure will be applied to our neighbours. Issues such as practical application and control of such a measure seem complex. Moreover, this does not prevent adults from smoking at home in a closed environment, such as a salon, in front of children. Nevertheless, I will ask my administration to follow up on this measure, which was recently taken abroad, and to examine its feasibility. As regards the 2014 European Tobacco Products Directive, my services are actively working on the transposition of the text into Belgian law by May 2016. The draft decisions are currently being finalised and will soon be forwarded to the Council of State. I have decided to focus the work on the proper implementation of the mandatory measures in the directive, given the very short term that it imposes. As far as the neutral package is concerned, that is a choice left to the Member States. I asked my services to prepare a report by autumn assessing the implementation of this measure in Australia and a state of play in the European countries which would soon apply this measure, such as the United Kingdom, Ireland and France. That period will allow us to launch a debate on such a measure and to take account of all the legal and practical problems, without the short-term pressure. With regard to the mandatory provisions in the European directive, we will move much faster, because we are in the final stage of preparing the texts. They still have to go to the Council of State and then they must have their parliamentary proceedings.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u118	Madam Secretary, I fully agree with the beginning of your reply. Adults should be more sensible, but unfortunately we see that this is not the case. Your comparison with home smoking doesn't go well. The toxic substances are ten times higher in a closed car than in a smoky cafe. A car is really a very small space. I agree with you that it will not be easy to monitor and actually allow this to happen. Still, I think we should look at this. I am therefore pleased to hear that your services are following this up in other countries. I will certainly come back to this. As far as the European directive is concerned, I look forward to the debate that we will undoubtedly have on this when it comes to our agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u119	Questions Nos 4655 by Mr Demon and 4678, 4679, 4680 and 4681 by Mrs Van Camp are postponed. We come to Mr Flahaux's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u120	The European Court of Justice, at the end of April, finding that "French legislation is likely to discriminate against male homosexuals on the basis of sexual orientation", asked the French Justice to "verify whether there are no less restrictive methods than the permanent exclusion of blood donation [...], in particular if the questionnaire and individual interview with a medical professional can make it possible to identify sexual behaviour at risk more precisely". Without calling into question the scientific advice long advanced by the health services responsible for donating blood to justify their refusal, i.e. a number of HIV infections 200 times higher in sexual relations between men (which, with homosexuals being about 5% of the population, would represent approximately the same number as the 1 % of the heterosexual 95 % likely to give contaminated blood, as the European Court points out: "For the period 2003-2008, almost all the contamination was due to sexual intercourse, half of the new infections concerning men who have had sex with men", the other half being the result of heterosexual intercourse), it draws quite different conclusions, which correspond to those which I have been making for several years, namely that there is both discrimination and danger of confounding sexual practice and sexual orientation. The chairman of the commission can testify to this, since she was the chairman of the commission a few years ago. Indeed, minister, there are heterosexual couples practicing swinging at evenings. The man is then likely to enter anally several women, themselves likely to have been penetrated in the same way by several men during the evening. Excuse me. The anal penetration which is criminalized to justify the refusal of blood donation to homosexuals, is practiced there with a major risk of cross-contamination. What to say, on the other hand, about the sharing of sex toys anally and/or vaginally, without protection, by several partners. Accepting a donation of blood from people who use it is a danger. A HIV-negative, stable, faithful homosexual couple – it exists, you know – is forbidden from donating blood. There is discrimination. Continuing to advance the usual arguments is discriminating homosexuals, on the basis that, unlike heterosexuals, they would not be able to build a loving relationship equal to the latter; on the basis that heterosexuals are intrinsically faithful and monogamous; on the basis that only homosexuals practice anal sex; on the basis that homosexuals are reduced to their sexuality, especially anal; on the basis that homosexuals, unlike heterosexuals, are irresponsible citizens and therefore less reliable than heterosexuals when they complete the questionnaire. Continuing to base the denial of blood donation on these principles is endangering the heterosexual population, suggesting, as at the beginning of the epidemic, that homosexuals are by nature more likely to become infected with HIV, while sexual practices, lack of adequate protection and sexual nomadism are the risk factor. As blacks are also more heavily contaminated, are they also excluded? Asking the question is answering it. Ten European Union countries including the United Kingdom, Sweden, as of 1 March 2010 – he was also a Minister of Christian Democratic Health in Sweden when she took this step – Spain, Portugal, Italy have changed their rules. The United States seems to want to move in that direction. What are the results of this change in practice in countries that have changed their approach? Has there been an increase in donations of contaminated blood in these countries since the amendment of the provisions? Nothing seems to indicate this a priori, otherwise they would, it seems to me, as a precautionary measure, have gone backwards. So, Madam Minister, do you intend to ask the Red Cross without delay to amend, as in France, Marisol Touraine, the Minister of Health had planned it by the end of May, the questionnaire prior to the donation of blood, in order to make it more relevant and more effective by addressing the subject from the point of view of sexual practices and not of the persons who practice them, by setting, according to sexual practices and behaviors and only them, the time limits for the exclusion of blood donation, regardless of the donor? This will make it possible to bring our legislation into line, in terms of equal rights for homosexuals. This will strengthen the capacity of blood collection services, now facing shortages, to meet the demand for care services. Thank you, Minister, for your response and for your active follow-up to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u121	In all sincerity, Mr. Flahaux, you're right. This is a very relevant issue. I would first like to recall the answer given earlier on the subject, in particular the reply to Ann Brusseel's written parliamentary question of 30 April 2015. You will find this passage: "(...)in accordance with the law on the donation of blood, people who are at high risk of contracting serious infectious diseases, transmissible by blood because of their sexual behaviour". It must be recalled that it is not because of their sexual orientation. But men who have sex with other men are definitely excluded from giving blood. This provision is the result of the transposition of a European Commission Directive. In addition, I have taken the first steps to initiate a reflection on the donation of safe blood. This initiative is based on long-term societal and political discussions in this area as well as an opinion of the Court of Justice of the European Union that the exclusion of gay and bisexual men from the blood donation should be scientifically substantiated. As a first step, the aim is to set up an ad hoc scientific platform, comprising Belgian and international experts, in order to define the relevant scientific criteria and to draft a paper position. As a second step, this document will be discussed at a round table with stakeholders. The conclusions will then be communicated. I am also particularly interested in the progress of a working group set up by the Council of Europe to study risk factors in the context of blood donation and transfusion medicine. The final result must be a scientific decision based on exclusion criteria that give priority to patient safety, but that are at the same time fair to donors. It is only later that we can consider an adaptation of the questionnaire used by blood establishments. Questions should be asked in such a way as to assess the risks proportional to the required safety of blood products. In addition, their formulation should encourage potential donors to respond honestly when completing the form. We have had several contacts with the Red Cross, which provides all transfusions in Belgium. It is very useful that we work together. As I said, it's security first and foremost. However, if safety is not addressed and without taking more risks, I am open to adapting the exclusion criteria. It must be remembered that this is an exclusion for life. A man who would have a relationship with the same man for forty years remains in the group of people at risk. Some things are moving, not only in neighbouring countries but also in our country. Of course, this will not be acted upon in haste. We have all the scientific data and, from a social point of view, a dialogue will take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u122	Mr Flahaux, I give you the floor for a short reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u123	You're already prejudging, Madam President!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u124	Just precaution!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u125	Madam Minister, I thank you for setting up an ad hoc group, as you mentioned. The work of this group can be fed by the situation in countries where behaviour has changed and where the possibility of blood donation has been reopened to people who do not have behaviour at risk, regardless of their sexual orientation. Minister, you yourself point to the fact that exclusion is for life. Imagine! This means that a 20-year-old homosexual who later becomes a monk will never be able to give blood.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u126	Moine doesn't mean anything, Mr. Flahaux!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u127	You understand the meaning of what I mean. Someone who has absolutely no sexuality or who, as a result of an accident, could no longer have sex, could never give blood again. It's the height of aberration! Minister, please know that we will be attentive to this! You're right, security is important. That is why we really need to base ourselves on the practice of sexuality and not on sexual orientation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u128	As the Minister has to leave at 6 p.m., Question No 4725 by Mrs Anne Dedry is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u129	Madam President, I have chosen the shortest question. Madam Secretary, on-line psychiatric services are offered free of charge through the Eclipse care group in some pilot region. How do you feel about this online psych assistance? In your plan on mental health, you talk about provincial networks. How does online assistance fit in? Of course, you will have consulted with Flemish Minister Vandeurzen. To what extent are these two plans moving together? Was that an item on the agenda at the last Interministerial Conference? What was the result of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u130	Madam President, Mrs Dedry, on the subject of on-line psychiatric services, I would like to refer to the article "Telepsychiatry" and the meaning of person-to-person contacts in the Magazine for Medicine 67, No. 10, of 2011. It points out that studies show that telepsychiatry offers opportunities to increase both the quality and quantity of patient care. The literature on telepsychiatry has increased dramatically over the last ten years, with research results on various applications. However, there is actually little literature available on the ethical aspects of telepsychiatry. The difficulty is to express precisely the value of person-to-person contact and its significance in the therapeutic relationship between physician and patient. These ethical considerations are crucial for the development of guidelines that can accompany the application of telepsychiatry in order to safeguard and promote the quality of care and human dignity. Authors conclude that accurate attention to the overall picture of the patient should help the psychiatrist to choose the most beneficial method of psychiatric consultation for the patient at that time. This consideration, together with good empirical research, is crucial in the development of guidelines for the use of telepsychiatry in practice. In other words, policies should give the psychiatrist and/or the patient the freedom to choose a method of treatment based precisely on the needs of the patient. Together with my fellow Members from the Communities and the Regions, I therefore choose to develop a more community-oriented mental health care based on the needs of people with mental problems and starting from a concrete living, learning and working environment. To optimally respond to these needs, we explicitly opt for a global and integrated approach to all healthcare components. Working with programmes created by provincial networks is central to this. In other words, a set of relevant partners, healthcare providers, institutions and services targeting children and young people, and their context, fulfils a number of clearly defined core tasks or functions from the network. This new policy is set out in the Guide adopted at the Inter-Ministerial Conference at the end of March and is currently under pressure to complement, implement and implement it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u131	Thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u132	Minister, on May 29, the press reported on the results of the START or Strategic Timing of Antiretroviral Treatment study, conducted jointly in 35 countries (including ours) since 2011, at the initiative of the U.S. health administration. The conclusion is without appeal: the earlier the antiretroviral treatment is started, i.e. as soon as HIV is detected, the more the risk of dying from a serious illness related to the patient's HIV status decreases (53%). At present, however, INAMI is still following the WHO recommendations and is waiting for the patient to have a weakened immunity of "500 T4 lymphocytes per mm3" for treatment to be taken care of by the social security system. This is harmful to both the patient and the community. Indeed, in the absence of treatment, the infected patient is subjected to the effect of the virus, which makes the terrain conducive to other serious diseases, linked to chronic inflammation and induced accelerated aging. From a collective and budgetary point of view, it can be seen that under treatment infected people are less or no longer contagious, which makes it possible to control the disease more effectively. Minister, given the results of this study, are you considering asking INAMI to change its early antiviral drug reimbursement policy to allow for early management? What initiatives can Belgium take both bilaterally and multilaterally (EU) to ensure that the WHO recommendations can be modified along the lines described in this important study? Can you tell me, in the follow-up to the questions I asked you a few weeks ago, where you are in the implementation of the National AIDS Plan. Has the "Madam" or "Mr. AIDS" been or has he been designated?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u133	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the results currently disseminated following the START study are the result of an interim analysis. These results need to be evaluated more precisely by Belgian specialists in the field in order to be translated into an opinion of the Working Group of Experts on AIDS Reference Centres, a group regularly convened by the Reimbursement Commission for the medicinal product. It is on the basis of the opinion of this working group that the MRC will analyse the need as well as the possibility of changing the conditions for the reimbursement of antiviral drugs against HIV infection. In addition to the recommendations of the World Health Organization, it is the recommendations of the scientific societies that may need to be adapted. Belgian HIV specialists are particularly active in European AIDS Clinical Society or United States Department of Health and Human Services, which send their guidelines at least once a year. With regard to the HIV plan itself, the actions are implemented. If you wish, I will provide you with a list. The INAMI-SPF Public Health Inter-Administrative Unit monitors the HIV plan with respect to federal competencies and actions. Within the Inter-Ministerial Conference, it was agreed that all relevant authorities would, in the coming months, take stock of the measures already taken and existing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u134	Minister, thank you for your answers. I understand that, for the heart of my question, the necessary steps are under way and that INAMI may be able to take care of this treatment in the short term. This would be excellent news for the social security budget because HIV treatment is extremely expensive. People must be treated as quickly as possible. As far as the AIDS Plan is concerned, you tell me that everything must be implemented very quickly by the relevant federal and federal entities. The appointment of the key person, namely the "Madam" or the "Mr. AIDS", is your responsibility. It is not the federated entities that will make the appointment. I invite you to do so as soon as possible, since this appointment would enable us to implement the various elements of the AIDS Plan for the years to come. So I really invite you to take the bull by the horns and to the or name it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-09-54-commissie-ic187x.u135	Questions Nos 4885 and 4897 by Mrs Catherine Fonck are transformed into written questions. The remaining questions are deferred.
