ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u1	Madam Minister, your colleague, Mr Tommelein, said a few months ago in the newspaper Gazet van Antwerpen that "persons who engage as a coach in a sports club or volunteer for the Red Cross, for example, must be compensated in a reasonable manner and not by payment in the dark". We had an exchange of views on this with Mr Tommelein this morning and I tried to put the debate more generally than just based on this interview. Today, the issue of volunteering was put on the agenda, in particular following the presentation of the study on volunteering by the King Baudouin Foundation, which you were present at yesterday. This study launched the question of the evaluation of the 2005 Act. To go back to your colleague's remarks, he told us that he was sorry for some clumsy remarks. He did not define the status envisaged when he said that volunteers must be compensated and be subject to new, more flexible statutes with less social and fiscal pressure. On the other hand, we have had the opportunity to say that there is no mix between volunteerism, which sees people preparing free of charge for associations, projects or causes, and work in the dark, since these are two very distinct things. Minister Gerkens and I are co-authors of this law on volunteer rights. At the time, you yourself objected to raising the ceiling for the lump sum payment of volunteers by indicating that if this amount were increased, it could create an employment trap. We recall that other colleagues in the MR, including Mr. Michel, did not share this view and were in favour of an increase in allowances for the sport sector. Of course, we will be talking later about the evaluation of the law. On this point, in agreement with your colleague Tommelein, do you intend to draw up an intermediate statute between that of a volunteer and that of an employee? Do you intend to change the current voluntary allowance plan? How do you intend to ensure the balance between volunteering and paid work? Another aspect, also here on Mr Tommelein's question, is that a worker who rounds his salary by small work, by small benefits for neighbours and others, should not be punished. What would be the situation for job seekers? Would the same operation be held in respect of them? This is the question that concerns your point of view on the content, in any case, of your colleague Mr Tommelein's interview. The second question concerns the evaluation of the law. I believe that yesterday the King Baudouin Foundation clearly demonstrated the importance of this sector for social cohesion. There are 1.16 million Belgians who provide voluntary services within the meaning of the 2005 Act; some 600,000 provide informal voluntary services, as referred to by the Foundation. Again, I insisted on Mr Tommelein this morning to avoid the systematic mix between this real solidarity and informal volunteering and the issue of black work. The law was passed more than ten years ago. I heard you yesterday at this presentation, so I already have the answer to part of the question. But how do you intend to implement this assessment of the law? Financial resources will be provided to the High Council of Volunteers. Indeed, I imagine that to do such a job there will be translation costs, acts to print, etc.- Is that what you're saying? A very important question: how will civil society be heard by the High Council of Volunteers? Indeed, it is very diverse. Services are provided in about 10 different sectors. The practices are also different in terms of free payment, payment, etc. There are very large and smaller associations. How will this sector be heard and evaluated? What about claimants, beneficiaries? What is the planned timing for this? I would also like to ask you a question which is also addressed to the chairman of the committee. Are you in favour of an exchange of views in committee with civil society and the Higher Council on this assessment? Anyway, as far as I'm concerned, it's my wish. If so, I will return to the timetable later. After ten years, do you consider – you said you had met with representatives of the High Council of Volunteers – that the duty of informing volunteers is well met by the associations in so far as it is not binding? What is your analysis of the question? In addition, problems are encountered by some social beneficiaries who wish to engage in voluntary activity? I am thinking in particular of those who are unemployed? What is your opinion on this point? Do you know any facts or reports about this? The question of the grey zone is obviously at the heart of the debate. It was, moreover, the subject of the discussion we had this morning with your colleague, Mr Tommelein. Yesterday, I heard the new President of the Higher Council plead for an evaluation, but also for an examination of the question of the grey zone. Whether or not the status of Red Cross paramedics should be reviewed and how could it be improved? What about the sport sector? Are you in favour of an increase in funding for the sports sector and/or other categories of volunteers? My third question concerns insurance. We know that the 2005 Act requires associations to take out liability insurance. This obligation became effective on 1 January 2007. We also know that, for small associations, there is a possibility to purchase compulsory insurance which is financed by the National Lottery for the provinces and Brussels through the Francophone and Dutch-speaking community institutions. What is your assessment of this practice ten years after the introduction of the law?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u2	I explained all that yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u3	Minister, this is a coincidence in the calendar. It's for parliamentary annals. It's not my fault these questions come up the day after the presentation. Other colleagues have the right to know and read it in the report. I want to see if you're making the same point. What is the insurance practice? Can you give figures and possibly a table, namely the breakdown by province and region, of collective voluntary insurance financed by the National Lottery? How many volunteers have been affected by this insurance coverage? How many days have been declared per volunteer since the start of the scheme? Have all valid applications been met? If not, why wouldn't they be? To my knowledge, it seems that the practical arrangements for small associations pose certain difficulties, in particular the fact that associations can only request a maximum of 200 days per year and per association. This is little for associations that call on many volunteers. To my knowledge, the appropriations are not fully used, which is a bit of a pity. Do you confirm the under-utilization by year of the National Lottery credits? Does the National Lottery continue to provide, on an annual basis, the provinces and the Brussels community commissions to finance these insurances and how much? What are the amounts of these allocations per year? Do you consider that the information for small ASBLs and ad hoc associations is sufficient or not to make known this free insurance coverage, so that volunteers in these small structures are covered during an activity in these associations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u4	Mr Delizée, thank you for all your questions. Indeed, we were both co-authors of the law on volunteering with Mrs Gerkens. It took six years to complete, since in the meantime the elections had taken place and some co-authors had disappeared from the Chamber's Chamber, including Mr Joos Wauters. I will not dwell on the interviews and on the comments made by other members of the government. You'll have an opportunity to interview them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u5	I did it this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u6	I leave them responsible for their speech. Yes, I visited the High Council of Volunteers. According to him, I was the first Minister of Social Affairs to visit them. It was an honor for me. Two working groups are set up to evaluate the Law on the Rights of Volunteers. The High Council of Volunteers comprises several organizations representing the various sectors of volunteerism, as well as experts. External experts and cupola organizations, not members of the Council, were also invited to collaborate in this evaluation. They intend to open their work to some representatives who are not yet on their board at this time. This makes it possible to involve civil society as much as possible, but I agree with you that it would be interesting to have a debate with them at the end of their work. You can propose it to the chairman of this committee; it is not up to me to do so. Two working groups have been set up and have begun their work. The first identifies the positive and problematic aspects of the Law on the Rights of Volunteers. The second examines the desirability of raising the ceilings for volunteers' allowances and of creating, alongside volunteering, a specific status for semi-gor activities which are part of what is now known as the grey zone. They chose to separate this question – and I think it's useful – from all the other problems to avoid interference.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u7	That is what we said to your colleague Mr Tommelein this morning. He also added work in the dark. We need to clarify which categories we are talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u8	We're talking about a grey area that exists. The evaluation of the law will report on the practical difficulties encountered by associations and volunteers, including information. It is up to them to draw up an inventory of all the problems that exist. I think they'll do it right. My philosophy is that we must support the voluntary voluntary work of the social beneficiaries. In any case, I do not want to propose any measures until I have the conclusions of the above-mentioned working groups which are currently evaluating the law on the rights of volunteers. In this case, specialists speak of semi-agoral employment. These are certain activities which take place in the non-market sphere and are primarily aimed at services to the company, for which the persons concerned nevertheless receive limited compensation. However, I would like to stress once again that this is not a matter of volunteering. In this context, several of my colleagues, in consultation with colleagues of my competent colleagues at the federal and regional levels and with representatives of the sectors, are considering whether such a status is desirable, what the conditions would be, and how they could be monitored. Indeed, the objective cannot be to replace regular work with a new precarious status of semi-agoral employment. I'm still careful...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u9	That's already an answer I haven't heard this morning. That's good.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u10	I am competent in this matter. I'm very careful, as I was, you're a witness ten years ago. With regard to the free collective insurance financed by the National Lottery, the aim is to provide insurance for occasional temporary activities, but also for organisations that operate continuously or have the status of ASBL. It is a stimulant that raises awareness of the importance of good insurance for volunteers. Free collective insurance is still insufficiently known to associations, which in part explains the lack of claims. In the context of the above-mentioned evaluation of the Law on the Rights of Volunteers by the Higher Council of Volunteers, it is further examined whether the current system of collective insurance is still adapted to the needs of organizations and volunteers and what the unspent fund could be used for. Either, we are making this possibility more known, which seems to me to be the most logical. Either, you have to think about another destination of the funds in case the organizations need insurance but do not use these insurances. But the first option seems more logical to me. As for your question about the use and distribution by province and region, the number of volunteers and days covered, it is not within my jurisdiction. I would therefore refer you to my colleague, Sophie Wilmès, who has the figures, because it is taken over by the National Lottery, which takes stock of them. It would be interesting to examine this because there appear to be differences. In 1999, we were told that volunteering was not very well known in Wallonia and that there were not many voluntary organizations. In the meantime, this has changed a lot. Already, at the time, it was a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u11	It's not exactly that. That is, the structures were different. They were larger in Flanders and smaller in Wallonia. The structures were different, but volunteerism existed on both sides.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u12	You know very well that they hesitated to follow us in creating a statute. Volunteerism existed but was different because it was always associated with other structures, in networks, including the fight against poverty. When I was Secretary of State for the Fight against Poverty, I learned that volunteering in Wallonia was organized differently, more by networks of associations, ASBL or other structures. Given the number of volunteers (1.2 million) in structures and 600,000 individuals, it would be interesting to be able to locate them. Indeed, they are people who have not found the structures and do the work for themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u13	They do not meet the definition of the law. For example, benefits for a neighbour, for parents, free, solidarity-based benefits, which the foundation calls informal volunteering.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u14	That's it! I talked about it yesterday! I would like a debate to be held in our committee as soon as I have the conclusions of the High Council. I visited her. The Chair, who remains a member of the Supreme Council, forwarded her title to Mr. Philippe Andriane. He was present and I was able to observe his enthusiasm at the start of this great work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u15	What could be the timetable for this assessment and our debate here in Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u16	I asked my interlocutors not to be too late and to give me a detailed job. The calendar belongs to them. I think a few months will be enough, because we have well-coordinated their two groups and they have enough members to work simultaneously in each group.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u17	Mr President, I will try to be brief. We can repeat the story and talk at length about why it took five or six years. My vision is that if the voluntary sector is well present in all the Communities of the country, it is structured differently and has different expectations. The Flemish associations were rather waiting for a status while on the Walloon or Francophone side they wanted to be recognized by the authority and the volunteers had rights. We had a debate on that. After that, we could discuss the terms and conditions, the type of insurance, the type of compensation. There were different points of view. But a consensus has been reached and that is a good point. As I said this morning, it is a vast, complex issue that affects many different legislations: labour law, social law, insurance law and liability. It was a rather complex job. We have spent a lot of time listening to civil society, social parastatals, social partners. They took a long time to give their opinion because they feared the avoidance of paid employment by volunteering, which I think was a mistake. It was also pointed out yesterday, and this is evident from the study of the King Baudouin Foundation: volunteering supports employment through associations and through their services, it does not replace it. Madam Minister, thank you very much for your answers. I hold you open to having this assessment of the Higher Council. My concern is also that associations, in all their diversity, are heard, not just a few representatives of platforms, and that we are really trying to hear the different categories of people involved, in the different sectors of activity concerned. Mr President, I would like us to have an exchange in our committee on this evaluation. Minister, you didn't say if you were going to put any means at your disposal to do that job. I imagine that means will be necessary for this. You didn't answer me about this, but I imagine you will make sure that the means are available.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u18	We have not granted any additional resources, only facilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u19	I don't know if it'll be enough for them. I'm going to the grey zone... we've defined what a "basic" volunteer is. The semi-agoral area, known as the grey zone, has been left out. Questions arise, not only in your skills but also in terms of taxation, in other areas. The status of some volunteers with special statutes such as Red Cross paramedics or in the sports sector needs to be reviewed. I think there is a broad debate. In fact, no option is taken, but you tell us we'll see if it's desirable or not. I think that's the right thing to do. Let's hear the area, let's see each other's views. Is a status desirable? If so, what status? Because this morning, your colleague didn't answer me either. What is the special status we think of? Let us wait for the Supreme Council to make any proposals. We can debate whether it is desirable or not. Are we in control? And what, if any, are the allowable defrayals? For if we allow defecations, it legalizes a number of things. But what is above what is legalized must obviously be controlled. I am thinking in particular of the sports sector. And I reminded your colleague this morning: in sport, there are different categories of providers. Some are still under the cover of financial circulars (circular Viewer and even earlier): stewards, cashiers, line tracers, coaches, those who train young people. There is also the issue of referees that has been controversial and also of players who are considered volunteers. In this area of sport, the Regions and Communities should be involved in the debate, in any case, on certain aspects. I also noted that you are maintaining your line so that voluntary benefits do not replace paid work. That was your concern at the time. I understand from your answer that you are not in favour of raising the ceiling, to avoid creating employment traps in this area. As far as the National Lottery is concerned, I am going to question your colleague Minister of Finance. But as the appropriate minister, it would be good if you had this element of analysis. It is a pity that the information does not circulate at your level. I heard that the Lottery was no longer feeding this fund, that it was underused. On the other hand, there are conditions for obtaining these aids which do not correspond to the realities on the ground. They may need to be amended. You did not answer some of my questions, particularly about the duty of information. You're waiting for the evaluation. I'll do the same. I would have liked to know your opinion on some points, but we are going to stay there today. I will remember, Mr.President, the request, which received the Minister's support, to put this on the agenda when the time comes, that is, in early 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u20	Madam Minister, my question concerns the tax treatment of voluntary allowances. There is no clarity about the tax interpretation. Depending on the legal entity in which the volunteer performs, a different interpretation is made by the people of Finance and the people of Social Affairs. I hope to have more clarity on that today. Volunteers may be employed by non-profit-making non-profit-making non-profit-making non-profit-making organisations and other non-profit-making entities. If they incur costs, they can be reimbursed, without such compensation being regarded as a taxable income in fiscalibus. This problem concerns the use of volunteers in non-profit organisations and non-profit organisations, which are actually subject to corporate tax. I have already asked the Finance and Social Affairs Ministers a question about this in the previous legislature. At that time, I received a different response from both ministers. According to the Minister of Finance, such organisations, subject to corporation tax, could not rely on volunteers, otherwise the fees would be regarded as a taxable income, given the circular on voluntary allowances. He said that only organisations subject to the tax could employ volunteers. Minister Onkelinx then said that the tax regime of an association, a non-profit association or a non-profit company, does not matter for the use of volunteers. It then based itself on the voluntary law, which provides that all organisations may employ non-profit-making non-profit-making volunteers. I put this question to the current Minister for Finance, who gave me the following answer, and he also made an interpretation of the voluntary law. He says: "The voluntary law clearly states that only non-profit-making organisations wishing to achieve an unselfish objective, excluding any profit-sharing among their members and directors, are eligible for voluntary activities. VSWs and related legal persons shall not be subject to corporation tax until it is established that they operate an undertaking or engage in profitable operations. This means, in concrete terms, that those non-profit-making organisations are pursuing a sound profit-making process and do not want to achieve a purely selfless objective." The Minister is therefore joining his predecessor. Madam Minister, do you, as Minister for Social Affairs, agree with your colleague's interpretation of the voluntary law? It is important that we know this, that there is clarity about it. If not, like Minister Onkelinx in the past, can you tell me whether the social status of the volunteer is affected by these different interpretations, in particular by the fact that the interpretation of the Minister of Finance ensures that compensation for volunteers will be regarded as taxable compensation? So what are the concrete consequences? I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u21	Mr Vercamer, I am referring back to the law of 3 July 2005 on the rights of volunteers, which defines the concept of "society organisation' as "any de facto association or non-profit private or public legal person working with volunteers', which means any association without legal personality of two or more persons who, by mutual agreement, organise an activity for the purpose of achieving an unselfish objective, excluding any distribution of profits among its members and directors, and who exercise direct control over the functioning of the association. In doing so, the achievement of a selfless objective for society and the absence of any profit-making are essential features in determining whether or not an organisation can use volunteers. My interpretation is in line with that of the Minister of Finance. I have also asked the services and the High Council for Volunteers, the federal advisory body on volunteering and the rights of the volunteers, to analyse the law within a few months, in the context of the ten-year existence of the voluntary law, and to give an informed opinion. In the context of the analysis, I also asked them to see where there might be different interpretations of voluntary work, both in social and fiscal law. So that's what you're saying. I am curious to see what they will say about it, because its consequences are very profound. Following their advice, I will contact the Minister of Finance in order to arrive at a uniform explanation of the concept of a voluntary organisation in order to avoid such problems of interpretation in the future. Of course, it has a huge impact on whether or not something fiscal should be indicated, for example the fees in the context of volunteering. They're already low. We also know that many people who do voluntary work have a professional activity. If that comes with tax, it can sometimes have very damaging consequences for people's commitment. I really take that seriously. I have also asked for more clarity on this subject, in the light of the different interpretations of the tax law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u22	Madam Minister, I have listened carefully to your answer and unless I am mistaken, you are only talking about actual associations. So I do not think you will include the non-profit organisations in your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u23	A non-profit association is a non-profit association. Such an association is not profitable anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u24	If I have heard correctly, you are only talking about actual associations in terms of the interpretation of volunteering. You will explain how the actual association is eligible for this. You didn't say anything about non-profit organisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u25	I did not say that I only speak about actual associations in the question I put to the Supreme Court. I referred to the law, which includes all types of associations, both nonprofit organisations and actual associations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u26	If you confirm that, that's fine with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u27	I was talking about any de facto association or private or public non-profit legal person. They all are, aren't they?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u28	Then it's okay. I hope that this evaluation will be carried out and that the different interpretations of social and tax law will be eliminated. After all, they lead to discussions on administrative handling everywhere. I hope you will insist that the evaluation be carried out as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u29	Questions Nos 4129 by Mr Clarinval, 4724 by Mrs Dedry and 4857 by Mr Massin have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u30	Mr Hedebouw has given his question No. 6597 withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u31	Minister, as you will recall, we had already had a discussion on several occasions on the basis of the law of 19 December 2014 proposing a legal framework for the reintegration plan for persons with disabilities. On the merits, it may be positive to have a plan to return to work for persons who are disabled, for reasons of illness or otherwise. At the same time, it depends on how this reintegration plan will be implemented. I have already had the opportunity, on several occasions, to question you on this point. I come back to this issue again because the National High Council of Persons with Disabilities (NSHRC) delivered an opinion on April 20, 2015, on the draft Royal Order that was provided for in section 153 of the Act I have just referred to. I had tabled my question, in any case in my personal capacity, on June 8, 2015; it is not today! The least we can say is that the CSNPH has expressed deep reservations about your draft royal decree, both on the merits, but also on the fact that this draft royal decree was very vague in terms of terms. The exact role of different stakeholders - the physician-counsel, occupational physician, general practitioner, employer, worker - was not determined. The scope and consequences of the scheme, the delays in the procedures, and the process itself lacked general visibility. There were also no positive elements regarding the missions and tasks of the medical consultant and the occupational physician in a respective manner, and the employer's obligations in terms of means and objectives of return to work. I'm not going to detail the whole opinion, you know it, but it's extremely challenging. I cannot imagine that you have therefore not reviewed your draft royal decree on the basis of the opinion of the CSNPH. Is that the case? What's your status today in this case? Have you already submitted this draft royal decree which, in my view, can only be revisited by the social partners? Have you made a little more progress, in particular, on the terms of reference and on the responsibility of each stakeholder? You will recall that I asked you a lot about the doctor-counsel, the working physician and the general practitioner to know what the responsibility was for each other, and especially who, at some point, would decide, on the basis of differing opinions? These are all questions which, I think, are legitimate, given all that is possible to do in this multidisciplinary reintegration plan, both in positive terms: I know a lot of patients who, despite their heavy pathology and treatment, work, often part-time, and who have this will to work. But at the same time, according to poorly chosen methods, something could also be achieved that is not only inappropriate, but that is a very strong blow to people who are seriously ill or disabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u32	Minister, I have allowed myself to add my question to Mrs Fonck's because, in the meantime, the terms and conditions have been clarified. That is, in any case, what emerges from an interview you gave. You present in a more concrete way the way in which you intend to achieve the objective you seem to maintain, namely that after two months of illness, an approach to re-entering the labour market is initiated, or that it will be penalised by a gradual reduction in the disability allowance. In the modalities you are talking about, there is cooperation between occupational physician, physician-counsel and treating physician, but you give a central role to the occupational physician, which would, if I understood correctly, lead to the possibility for this occupational physician to have access to the patient's medical record and to give him the central place in what would enable him to assess his health and his ability to return to work. In the discussion of the terms and conditions, however, you do not speak of expectations or obligations towards employers, in such a way that they put everything that is necessary at their disposal so that this worker can start working part-time again - better pace of work, adaptation of jobs, possible training,... It is known that if there is no obligation on both sides with shared sanctions, responsibility may fall essentially or only on the worker. What are the concrete and definitive elements of your royal decree? What are the elements that are still in negotiation or consultation? You have received advice, how have you taken into account the concerns and concerns expressed? Do you foresee constraints with possible sanction vis-à-vis employers for non-compliance with the conditions allowing the worker to return to his/her work environment? Why do you reverse the relationship between the citizen-worker-patient and his or her attending physician by giving the central place to the occupational doctor? What about the patient's rights? He should be able to allow himself access to his file, whereas here such an approach is not possible. What are you planning to preserve the relationship of trust between the patient and his or her attending physician? My last question is for you, but also for the Minister of Employment. It would be interesting if such processes were to be implemented to provide a mechanism for assessing the health impact of workers on a range of provisions that have been or are being decided upon. I am thinking of overtime, flexibility of work, cumulation of part-time work, postponement of access to early retirement, etc. We know that burn out and depression are increasing. It would be important to have an evaluation and collect data to take it into account. This would allow for a better reintegration of workers. It is an objective that I also pursue, but not with the same methods or tools. However, we can share this objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u33	Dear colleagues, the draft royal decree on the multidisciplinary reintegration plan to which you refer is not yet final. Consultations are still under way. We intend to carry out a wide-ranging in-depth consultation with the social partners, together with my colleague Minister for Employment, Kris Peeters. This consultation is based on a joint proposal supported jointly by the strategic unit of the Minister for Employment and my strategic unit. The consultation with the social partners will take place in three fora: the back to work consultation platform of the National Labour Council, the Higher Council for Prevention and Protection at Work and the Management Committee of the INAMI Compensation Service. Mutualities will be associated through the Management Committee. What will be the topics discussed with the social partners and mutualities? First of all, cooperation between the occupational doctor, the attending physician and the consulting physician. How will it be translated into practice? Of course, by respecting the law on patients' rights, Mrs. Gerkens. There is no doubt about this! You don't have all the data in your file. This is included in the Law on the Rights of Patients, but it is well known that a treating physician and patient relationship must prevail in order to dispose of the entire file. This is not the case with an occupational doctor. Obviously, it is not possible to transmit the personal data of the file during the consultation. There is no doubt about this. But the data needed to assess the possibility of re-entering the patient can be exchanged. Those are real Indian stories, as if we would put people who, so to speak, fight for their lives against a deadly disease or who are severely handicapped, all back to work. I don't know where that comes from, because that's never been said. It's Indian stories that started living their own lives. These are people who still have an opportunity to do the same or other adapted work on a part-time basis for a few years or longer. All this is possible after a long period of incapacity for work. It is therefore a complete or partial return to the labour market, either in the former position, but in adapted form with fewer days or hours, or in another function adapted to the situation of the person concerned. Of course, we do not invent the hot water. This system has been in place for a very long time in other countries and is a mandatory system there. So these are people who still have the opportunity not to be written off for the labour market and who still want to work. These are sometimes also young people who are no longer able to exercise their profession because of a physical or mental condition. One imagines the wildest stories, but I hope that the planned consultation will be able to refute those stories. I come to your last question, Mrs Gerkens. I'm always in favour of evaluations, but it's kind of weird. If necessary, the impact of that measure will be assessed. However, I would also like to know what the consequences of the early write-off of some people in the labour market are. Some people really do not feel full-fledged when they no longer have a place on the labour market after a disease, or after a long-term illness. With them there is a real will to take their place in society. Your request for an evaluation could be supplemented in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u34	Minister, you did not speak of the opinion of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u35	We first asked for the opinions. We will take this into account when we talk about the journey with the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u36	I got it. Between the major one-year statements and the landing that had been well perceived that many subtleties had not yet been examined, there was a margin. I think you're revisiting your original proposal as you go. Even in the documents issued by your firm to the social partners, two months are mentioned. I would remind you that in the basic law passed in Parliament, the deadline is three months. I am astonished at this decrease, going beyond the law passed in 2014. In addition, I find it difficult to follow what has been said about the 10% penalty on compensation. Your site mentions that there will be no obligation and that this is intended to help people rework. If there is no obligation and at the same time you are planning a 10% penalty on the allowance, the least we can say is that we hear and read everything and its opposite, including in the official documents. I think the social partners are going to consult each other. I invite you to take the time to consult with the general practitioners; this seems indispensable to me. I've told you from the beginning, you have to associate the general practitioner. It is absolutely not in a role or in a control dimension; it acts loyally with the patient to treat it. It is still unclear who will make the decisions. Who will have the decision when the opinions will not converge? We don't know. That seems quite surprising to me. I call on you to measure how data can be used and, above all, what data. Who will decide which data can be exchanged? I would point out that the occupational physician and the physician-counsel have neither the same responsibility nor the same role as the general practitioner. Everyone must keep his or her responsibilities and duties clean so that it does not turn against either the patient or the general practitioner.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u37	Minister, I will join Ms. Fonck in the final part of her speech. You confirm that you want to respect the law on the rights of patients as well as the relationship of trust between the general practitioner and his patient. But when you say that health data useful for making a decision on whether or not to return to work can be exchanged, how will this be determined? To ask the general practitioner to transfer data from the medical record to an occupational doctor or a medical consultant is, in my view, an infringement of the Law on the Rights of Patients. Perhaps you can imagine other processes, but I share the need to involve general practitioners with the partners you are going to consult on the strategy to be adopted. They are concerned about the health of their patients and the impact of work on their health. However, they cannot be asked to entrust elements of a file, left to their discretion as to a possible relationship with their employment, or to be obliged to respond to a request which is not known how it might be made by a labour doctor or a medical consultant. That is why I believe that general practitioners should be involved in this consultation. I stress the need to reverse the order of things: it is the attending physician who must determine the data and work in confidence with the patient. I also stress the need, since you work with the Minister of Employment, to share responsibilities between the employer and the worker. This can be seen for older workers now. The worker over the age of 45 almost never has access to training. It is difficult for him to obtain adaptations of his working time, etc. If the employer is given the opportunity to return to work in a flexible manner, the employer must be required to provide this flexibility to the worker. With regard to policy evaluation, the Minister of Health within a government may also have an appreciation of the policies that are being carried out and their impact on the health of citizens. In a much broader way, health laws exist in different states. This makes it possible, on the one hand, to make prevention and, on the other hand, to avoid budgetary expenditure or to take measures, which it would appear would have a negative impact, even though this was not the original intention. It is sometimes enough to adapt provisions to meet a goal of access to health before even having access to health care.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u38	Mr President, some new things have been said in the replies. Mrs Fonck, you say that it is not clear that there is a possibility of a 10% penalty even if the trip is voluntary. You cited the website...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u39	(...) at the same time, you write on your site that it is not mandatory.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u40	Let me explain. Accepting the journey is not mandatory. But if the person has accepted it, that all work has been done and that just before the end, when there is an alternative proposal, he refuses, then there is the possibility of a sanction. This already exists: if the medical consultant says that a person is able to work, although he or she does not feel able to do so and even if the attending physician is in the direction of his or her patient, I can tell you that the penalty is a 100% loss of compensation, and the person must bring the case before the labour court. The current situation is much more severe! People are now losing their full benefit if they go against the medical adviser of the sickness funds and do not resume work if they are considered fit to work. We're giving them a chance to re-integration project. If they get in there, it seems obvious to me that they are also getting results. Much effort is being made to this end, together with other organisations involved, such as Actiris and Forem. Mrs Gerkens, you ask what information will be provided to the medical consultant. That's what's happening now. If you receive sickness and invalidity benefits, there must be a record of certain data. This is not the whole file of the person concerned, but it is still necessary to have certain information in order to decide whether or not a person is fit to work; otherwise it is not possible to declare him invalid. This already exists, with respect for professional secrecy and the law on patients' rights. You're acting like we're reinventing that trajectory. The only new thing is the possibility of a reintegration project in which we give flexibility. It could be a complete resumption of work, another job or training for something else, for example for a less back-burdening profession for a 40-year-old who works in construction and has a worn-out back. So I don't understand why you're so wild about yourself and saying the government wants to reinvent everything. Nothing's being reinvented. Only the possibility is given to offer a future to people who are otherwise written off for the job they do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u41	It is time to close the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u42	Minister, as soon as a procedure is imposed, there is no longer any question of an exchange of data about a patient for whom reinstatement is being sought. In addition, the treating physician is placed in an uncomfortable situation. Therefore, integrating them into the consultation should not be a problem for you, if the goal is to serve the patient by working on all the data.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u43	Mrs Fonck, you have the floor to ask your question about the National College of Insurance Medicine (No 4901).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u44	Mr President, I would like to turn this question into a written question, despite your bad mood.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u45	All right. I'm just trying to stick to the time. That's not unreasonable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u46	Mr President, when the minister responds, I have the right to reply. Which I wasn't allowed to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u47	Minister, a Memorandum of Understanding on the relationship between professionals working in the disability sector and health professionals was adopted on February 24, 2014. The objective of this protocol is to create optimal and pragmatic conditions of care by widening the range of tasks that can be carried out by educators and encouraging collaboration between different professionals. I have already asked a number of questions about this to your colleague, and some remain unanswered. The National High Council of Persons with Disabilities issued an opinion in January 2014 in which it regretted that it had been almost completely bypassed in such a case. The protocol provided that "a university study would be carried out in the coming months by the federal authority, in consultation with the federal entities that signed this memorandum of understanding. (...) This study will assess the problems encountered in providing health care to persons with disabilities under optimal conditions (...) Field situations will be the object of the research in order to describe what problems arise and under what circumstances, with a view to formulating proposals for a solution, paying attention to both the quality of care and the quality of life of the recipient." Since Mrs. Sleurs sent me home, can you answer my questions? Has this university study been carried out? The protocol provided for the federal authority to conduct the study. Who, in fact, is carrying out this study? Has the National High Council of Persons with Disabilities been involved? Have his remarks on the protocol been taken into account? What are the conclusions of the study? Has the re-evaluation of the protocol on the basis of the results of the study already taken place? What are the main changes or additions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u48	Dear colleague, the study to which you refer has not yet been started. The topic chosen by the Interdepartmental Conference in February 2014 was submitted to the KCE as a topic of study, but it was not accepted by the KCE. As soon as the study on a robust proposal is assigned to a partner, an accompanying committee will be established, in which the National Higher Council of Persons with Disabilities will be involved. Currently, a new application by a university partner has been submitted at the FPS level Public Health. The proposal is being evaluated at the level of budget demand, the project plan and the objective of the study, in order to see whether it corresponds to the objective set out in the Memorandum of Understanding of 24 February 2014 on the relationship between professionals working in the field of assistance to persons with disabilities and health professionals. Nevertheless, the concern to create optimal and pragmatic conditions of care by broadening the range of tasks that can be carried out by educators and to encourage collaboration between different professionals is well present in the initiatives under development. Take, for example, the work in the context of the revision of Royal Decree No. 78, which is likely to break down the tasks entrusted to different healthcare professionals, in accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding of 24 February 2014 on the relations between healthcare professionals and those of aid, as are the personal assistants of persons with disabilities. In this revision of Royal Decree No 78, I also intend to provide for an increased possibility of collaboration and delegation between them. All this is linked, as you know, to the revision of Royal Decree No. 78.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u49	Minister, this is not just talk for the pleasure of studying! There are a number of important issues on the ground. The amendment to Royal Decree No. 78 concerns health professionals only. Some acts are redistributed among health professionals. However, we are here in the presence of actors outside of health care. I'm thinking of educators. Action could only be taken in the presence of an outside nurse, such as an injection, particularly in specialized institutions for persons with disabilities. If you have to bring in a health professional each time, or if you have to hire a full-time person with all that this involves (on-call, on weekends, at night, etc.).), this seems difficult to achieve. This is not in line with the current reality and the cost would be extremely important. This will place these institutions in impossible situations; all at the expense of the disabled person. I advocate that pragmatic solutions be found that do not harm the health of the people concerned. These solutions must be based on existing practices aimed at ensuring the best possible environment for the person with a disability, as if he or she were at home.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u50	Mr President, Madam Minister, according to the press release of the Council of Ministers of 12 June 2015, the Council of Ministers approved the principle of the merger of the Occupational Diseases Fund (OIF) and the Workers' Compensation Fund (FAT), in order to bring together the two occupational hazards branches into one body. I am not going to reread that statement, but I am going to ask you directly whether, since then, things have made concrete progress. Is there a form of restructuring for the staff of the two Funds? How will the different missions of these two Funds be structured? Do they maintain their specificities or are they merged, including at the file approach level?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u51	As Mr Massin is not here, I give the floor to the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u52	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, the aim of the merger of the two social security institutions is to create a positive experience by creating a new institution. The merger must lead to the achievement of the following objectives:- to maintain the specificity of occupational risks and, within these occupational risks, the specificity of each scheme; - to increase the visibility of the occupational risk sector and to develop a comprehensive and coherent approach to occupational risks in collaboration with the relevant actors, in particular in the field of socio-professional prevention and reintegration; - continue to ensure high-quality service to citizens and stakeholders in both institutions; - to achieve a critical mass of the organisation to ensure a better functioning of support services, in particular by facilitating the back-up of functions and aiming at the optimisation of best practices; - to maintain the application of the principles of good governance by optimizing the functioning of services such as internal control, internal audit, cost accounting, security, information technology, prevention and protection at work. At the same time, the transaction must achieve the government's objectives in terms of savings on the operating and remodeling costs of the federal government's landscape, without jeopardizing either the service or the benefits paid to insured persons. Both jurisdictions have already established internal working groups to implement this merger process. A steering committee coordinates the work of these technical groups on various aspects, namely the positioning of the new institution, the legislative framework, the organizational chart, the building, human resources management, accounting and financial management, communication and change management. At the government level, I will set up a working group composed of representatives of the offices of the Ministers of the Public Service, the Budget and Employment, as well as representatives of the two Funds to analyse and validate decisions on the practical implementation of the merger. This working group will soon begin work and set the phase and timing. I confirm that all personnel will be retained during the merger. However, some workers may experience changes in their function, but this issue will be addressed within the new institution as part of change management. For now, there are about 350 people in each administration. The new institution will have 700. The organization will be more convenient with a single service, for example for information and communication technologies. Savings have to be made in administrations and for some services, it is becoming difficult to have enough staff to provide the necessary support. So it is mainly the support services that are going to merge. Disability and occupational diseases relate to different statutory tasks, which will of course remain the same. In particular, the support services will merge and work together. They will thus be better able to guarantee the continuity and quality of their work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u53	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. You're talking about a merger in terms of organization and operation. I think we need to be able to take advantage of it. It is important that there is a single point of contact for the patient and a single point of contact for businesses. The worst part is having several different speakers. For some pathologies, there is a combination of occupational disease and occupational accident. It's not always obvious to be there. On the other hand, in financial terms, will there be a merger with a single occupational risk fund? Should the funding arrangements for this fund be renegotiated? [[No]] The funds as such will not be merged? Are the two different funds maintained? [[Oui]] Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u54	Their legal assignment is different. They are both occupational risks, but there is a difference between the modalities for incapacity for work and an occupational disease.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u55	At the same time, if you have the advantage of having a single point of contact for patients and businesses, it is worth asking yourself. Sometimes patients are referred from one fund to another. It will be necessary, through this merger, to try to correct the pitfalls that we are currently experiencing. It would be a shame to neglect this qualitative dimension.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u56	It will be much clearer for citizens if there is a single window where they can offer themselves. Less will be sent from one point of contact to another in the administration. The aim is, moreover, to create a unique point of contact for citizens in all our administrations, because now the citizen himself has to find his own way in the mess of competences.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u57	Mr President, Madam Minister, the more general question that must be asked before entering into a specific point concerns the government's policy with regard to the status of close caregivers, knowing that last month, your colleague Mr Borsus, announced the creation of a statute for self-employed close caregivers. For example, self-employed persons forced to reduce or temporarily divest their professional activities in order to care for a seriously ill relative or a disabled child will receive a monthly allowance of 1 070.94 euros gross for six months. In addition to the payment of this monthly allowance, the persons concerned will be exempted from the payment of their social contributions, while retaining their rights. This period of interruption will be assimilated for the calculation of the pension. We welcome this measure for the self-employed. I would like to know what is planned for the employees. Currently, compensation is provided through the various time-credit formulas, but these amounts are significantly lower. There are time credits for palliative care, time credits for assistance or care to a seriously ill household member or family member, medical assistance leave and palliative care leave. Under the general full-time scheme for employees, a worker with less than five years of service has a gross allowance of EUR 481 and, if he or she has more than five years of service, this amount amounts to EUR 641.37. For a complete break for thematic holidays, the gross amount is 786.78 euros. So there's a difference in treatment. Minister, what is the reason for this difference between self-employed and wage-earners? Since you are in charge of salaried workers, is there an equivalent amount of compensation? The status of close caregivers should be considered in a comprehensive manner. This is a wide-ranging debate that we often come back to. I am doing this here through a specific question, but this is an opportunity to hear you in a more general way on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u58	Mr Delizée, as you said for the independent regime, there is the proposal of Minister Borsus, whom I have co-signed, in charge of the independents. The Royal Decree grants a flat-rate income replacement allowance to close self-employed caregivers in certain circumstances. I share your view that this allowance is a positive measure in the context of the protection of groups, independents faced with health requirements. This is a clear step towards supporting this group with specific needs. This group is, it is true, very limited in number. In the case of employed and unemployed persons, there is, until the new order, no system of such allowances, i.e. lump sum allowances. For this much larger group of incumbents, there are a number of schemes that provide facilities, such as the example of time credit that you have just cited. In view of the growing demand for care, people facing a loss of autonomy must be given good assistance in order to stay as long as possible in their familiar environment. Pressure must not be shifted on close caregivers, their rights must remain guaranteed. These close caregivers have an essential role to play. There are 75% of elderly people who want to be treated as long as possible at home, even in the event of illness and weakening. It is important to examine, in collaboration with the Regions and the Communities, what initiatives best correspond to the needs of close caregivers. The first step in this direction is the recognition of close caregivers, this group of people who play a key role in informal care. I have already assembled a working group within the government to consider a first proposal. In addition, a wide-ranging consultation was held with a number of organisations, civil society and the Advisory Council on the implementation of the Act of 12 May 2014 on the recognition of the caregiver who helps a person in a situation of great dependence. Thanks to this consultation and this opinion, I was able to identify precisely the problem. A first amendment of the law which gives a more generic character to the definition and which no longer associates a list of pathologies is on the agenda of the plenary meeting to be held tomorrow. Once this project has been completed, it will be necessary to discuss with my fellow ministers whether the benefits can be associated with this recognition. For the self-employed, it was impossible to take a few months off to care for a relative. We've fixed it. To this end, we have amended the law so as not to have to resort to this limiting list, because it was also unfeasible for workers in view of the wide variety of situations. From now on, it is the great dependence of a close relative that will determine the need of a close caregiver, and more the pathology in itself. I don't know if you were in committee when I quoted the example of someone with rheumatoid arthritis. It may be autonomous, but this is not always the case. So that will be in the plenary tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u59	Madam Minister, thank you. Your answers are partially satisfactory. All positive steps are welcome. So much the better if, for a limited category of people, a solution is found. I assume that the budgetary impact is also limited. Nevertheless, I believe that the law of 12 May 2014, which is a kind of framework law, must be implemented. It gives the definitions. It seems to me that we must try to understand all situations. In all families, whether they are self-employed or wage earners, there are critical situations. What is problematic in terms of fairness is that the amount of treatment is different depending on whether the person recognized as a caregiver is in an employee or self-employed situation. You don't justify that. There is no reason to justify this difference in treatment. Consultation with civil society, the Regions and the Communities is positive. I wish there was a statute. This requires decisions that are not simple to make. They can have a budgetary impact. This is the crux of the problem, but it cannot justify a difference in treatment between the employee and the self-employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u60	Madam Secretary, we've been living with electronic meal cheques for almost a month. The paper meal cheques were abolished on 1 October. That is a first step in the right direction. I am convinced that the system should be completely abolished and that the amount of meal cheques should simply be added to the paycheck. In the current scenario, the last paper meal cheques of the month of September remain valid until the end of 2015. However, we are told in the press that quite a few companies have not switched to electronic meal cheques. It would involve more than ten thousand companies which had not yet switched over by the end of September, which could lead to a number of problems. Is it correct that so many companies have not yet made the switch to electronic meal cheques? What will be done to ensure that as many companies as possible switch within the deadline? What sanctions will be imposed against companies which have not made the switch in time and which, as of October, do not comply with their sectoral or individual agreement to compensate employees with meal cheques? Parliament extended the period of validity of the meal cheques to 12 months in order to prevent the cheques being cancelled or not being used. However, that is now limited to three months. Let me give you a note that we will again give the Sodexos and Edenreds of this world a very nice end-of-year gift, because all cheques that have expired or have not been used disappear directly into the pocket of the issuing companies. Can it therefore not be considered to extend the validity of the cheques, or can it at least be established with the issuing companies, so that the cancelled cheques can be returned after 1 January and that the corresponding amount is simply attached to the electronic card? That can't be hard, can it? If the three-month period of validity is maintained, the cheques expired on 1 January. I'll give it to you on a note that will give you a very big gift to the issuing companies. I'd like to know the numbers. You may not be able to answer it, but I will ask you another question. In this month's tips & Advice for Staff Services, I read that a collective agreement has been concluded in Joint Committee 200 which provides that the 250 euros to be given to ecocheques in 2016 can be converted into a premium. This was put into a collective agreement in Joint Committee 200. You can convert those checks into something we've been asking for years, into cash, into a premium. It's here in black and white. One has to do it before 31 October. I wonder: if this is possible for ecocheques, can it also be for meal cheques? If that were possible, the step was quickly taken to abolish the cheques and convert them into a normal premium, as we have always asked for.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u61	Mr Vercamer, since 2011 there has been the possibility of replacing paper meal cheques with electronic meal cheques. The period of validity of the meal cheques was changed from three to twelve months. The National Labour Council ruled in its Opinion No. 902 of 25 March 2014 to generalise the use of electronic meal cheques in order to drastically simplify the system and reduce costs and administrative burdens for all concerned. The generalisation of the electronic meal cheque and consequently the disappearance of the paper meal cheque on 1 January 2016 was communicated in the Royal Decree of 29 June 2014. Publication in the Belgian Official Journal followed on 24 July 2014. This has given all the actors involved ample time to anticipate this and to take measures for the benefit of both employers, workers and traders. Thus, we do not provide for additional measures to encourage employers to switch to electronic meal cheques or to extend the validity of the last paper meal cheques. Nor do we provide for a system for the return of lapsed cheques in order to have the meal cheques added to the meal check account. After all, this would once again create administrative nuisance and a mess and encourage us not to do what needs to be done, namely to make them electronic. On the basis of information provided by the publishers of electronic meal cheques, such as the Sodexo, Edenred and Monizze mentioned by you, we inform you that on 30 September 94.74 % of employers who provide meal cheques will deliver them on an electronic meal check card. We're about three weeks later now. It's moving fast. The publishers of the electronic meal cheques have been commercially active in recent months to attract new customers. The 3 517 companies that have not yet switched would be small to very small. This would be a group that is waiting classically for quite a long time to switch to electronic applications. As far as the 200 Joint Committee is concerned, I have noted very clearly that this was made into a collective agreement. I didn't know that. I don't read the same books as you, Mr Vercamer. I'll read them in the future. That was rightly decided there, because the meal cheque is part of the wages of the workers. The role of the government is limited to the creation of a legal framework, with great freedom of interpretation for the social partners. I believe you can endorse that, knowing from where you come from. It is therefore up to the social partners to determine whether the cheque can be converted into a premium or whether sanctions should be imposed if the employer does not switch to the electronic cheque system in good time. In this respect, given our limited role, we cannot take much action. In the past, you have made very animated presentations about the meal cheques. You mentioned, among other things, the fact that many cheques are simply not exchanged and that the money then sticks with the Sodexos of this world. This will no longer be possible in the future. If everything is done electronically, it will automatically be on the payment card of the data subjects. That card will remain in the possession of those people. This also applies to the ecocheques that will end up on the same card.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u62	But they could still fall. It will improve, I agree. However, if they are not used on the electronic card, they will also lapse and disappear in the portfolio of issuing companies. Madam Minister, you say that it has been published in the Belgian Official Journal and that everyone knows enough about it. You say that an extension or transitional arrangement would cause far too much administrative nuisance. So that's money that an employer has paid and that an employee gets and can't cash in. Because of the administrative nuisance...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u63	They can cash that in.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u64	But not if they're late. Three months. Do you know how much million this is about?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u65	I know, you already said that. In any case, if that law has appeared, and if it is so important to the workers, then it can also be communicated. We have to let everyone play their part.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u66	Practice has shown that many of these paper cheques are still void and are not being used. That comes directly into the pocket of the issuing companies. Point on the line.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u67	That's why we made them electronic.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u68	But now you have a problem with the latter. I'll give it to you on a note, which will again be a nice gift for the issuing companies. If you had made that period longer, people would have had a better chance...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u69	The advice we received meant that if we were to extend the period, it would stay longer and there would be more cheques. I hope that your question will be published in the newspaper again, so that the people who receive these cheques know that they have to spend it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u70	I hope so, but I give it to you on a note that will disappear again. Secondly, I think it is very useful for you to study this new collective agreement carefully. We must indeed create a legal framework, but if we can and do it now, we may well ask ourselves whether we should not generalize it. We'll get rid of the whole pro rata plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u71	I'll ask in Minister Peeter's cabinet how they did that. Maybe you could do that sometime.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u72	I'll certainly do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u73	We are here with a number of reform-minded people. Hopefully we can do the same in this file. Mr Vercamer, I believe that Mrs De Block is even on your side. However, I fear that there are other obstacles in this dossier. The obstacle is not Mrs. De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u74	A swallow does not make spring or a collective agreement. We must not generalize. Which sector is represented by the 200 Joint Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u75	Not the trade, trade is 214.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u76	Questions Nos 6173 and 6176 by Mrs Van Peel are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u77	Mr President, Madam Minister, we have already had the opportunity to discuss the subject last June, in particular on the possibility for trainees medical specialists, who have thus already completed their basic medical training, to contribute to guarantee their pension rights and to enjoy a full social status instead of the sui generis status they have had since 2007 or 2008. They should be able to benefit from an umbrella structure, such as ASBL, as it exists for general practitioners; this should allow for uniformity in remuneration when they take care of guards, distribution of trainees in different hospitals, management of administrative procedures and centralisation of funding by INAMI. In your response, in June, you told us that you were looking at these contribution options during their internship training, while taking into account the new provisions that remove the graduation bonus, and that you wanted to first assess the budgetary consequences. You added that you wanted to improve the training of trainee teachers and the quality criteria for the training of these trainees. But you didn't give us any timing for these items, or for the rest of the work, since you had given assignments to your administrations and the Conseil Supérieur. My question is, Madam Minister: do you have any results of the work and advice requested on this subject, including an assessment of the costs of implementing this social status, associated, of course, with the payment of contributions from candidates/trainees? Have you examined the implementation of this collective management ASBL – that's what I propose to call it –? It is obviously more complicated than it is for general practitioners, since there is a lot of specializations, places of internship, with different natures and ways of doing things.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u78	Mrs Gerkens, the consultation with the representatives of the groups concerned, namely the medical specialists in training, took place and my strategic unit took note of their wishes and concerns and integrated them into the ongoing analysis of this dossier. Now that the development of a comprehensive social status is not an option in a first phase, particularly for budgetary reasons, my preference is for the possible development of pension rights in the first pillar. I can tell you that my strategic cell has already had contacts in this context with the strategic unit of the Minister of Pensions. With regard to your specific questions, I have ordered a survey from the Social Policy Directorate-General of the Social Security SPF and have already received a detailed note explaining various possible ways of extending social status. As you rightly point out, each of these leads implies that the medical specialist in training pays social contributions. Their amount varies according to the hypothesis studied. The possibility of setting up and financing an ASBL will not be dealt with since it is a prohibited placement in employment within the meaning of Article 31, paragraph 1, of the Law of 24 July 1987 on temporary work, temporary work and the provision of workers to users. Furthermore, there is an inconsistency with Article 2 § 8 of the Ministerial Decree of 30 April 1999 according to which the medical specialist in training is placed at work by the hospital. During his internship, the candidate belongs to the hospital medical corps. He is therefore obliged to respect the hospital's regulations and he is also covered by the hospital's insurance. It is supervised and evaluated by the co-ordinator traineeship master and the traineeship master. Finding a solution is not easy. First of all, we need to ask for more information. In any case, the work continues.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u79	Madam Minister, thank you. The organisation of their pensions is one of their priorities. I am pleased to see that you associate them with the work in progress. Does this mean that the provisions are different with the trainees in the general practitioners, for whom an ASBL has been established? I will check the reasons for this difference between specialists and generalists. If there is no body to ensure fairness between trainees, who have to circulate between several types of hospitals, it would be worthwhile to introduce a uniform system of on-call pay, because the differences are enormous, ranging from 1 to 10.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u80	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, I have been concerned about situations that have been reported to me. The federal policy to combat social fraud leads to home checks of persons with disabilities or disabilities by police officers who have full competence to assess whether there is fraud or not on the status of isolated persons. In practice, INAMI sends the request for investigation to the police. The police officers shall transmit to the mutuals their finding of a possible cohabitation of the controlled person. In the case of undeclared cohabitation, mutual societies are required to claim reimbursement of allowances that would have been unduly paid and to reduce the allowance to the rate of cohabitation. The following situation was reported to me by the services. The exercise of parental visiting rights was confused with a hidden common life, the father having come out of the building with a garbage bag. This has dramatic consequences for already disadvantaged families because the other parent's disability allowance is reduced overnight and the reimbursement of unduly received allowances is claimed. Minister, is this control and sanction mechanism well planned in this way? What are the markers of observations and controls in order to preserve respect for people? What remedies do these families have? Can mutualities report what appears to them as errors in reports received from police officers? If so, how?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u81	Mr President, Mrs Gerkens, the mechanism described in the parliamentary question does not correspond to the reality of the investigations carried out by INAMI within the framework of the federal policy to combat home fraud. It is recalled above all that it is not for INAMI to direct the police to conduct an investigation on its behalf. However, if INAMI has found cases of possible fraud, the information is transferred to the relevant police services. They shall, where appropriate, carry out investigations supervised by the labour auditor, who shall alone consider whether it is appropriate to forward the results of such investigations to INAMI for the continuation of the administrative investigation by social inspectors. If the labour auditor makes the decision to send the police file to INAMI for the purpose of continuing the administrative investigation, a social inspector will then be sent to the mutual association with which insured persons suspected of fraud at home are affiliated, provided that the elements contained in this file are sufficient. If this check proves conclusive, a notification will then be sent by the INAMI administrative control department to the insured's insurer in order to recover the amounts unduly paid. A report may also be drawn up by the social inspector if the presence of a false document signed by the persons concerned is found with a view to the application of an administrative sanction. The mutualities then have the task of recovering the undue amounts from the persons concerned. At no time are police investigation files supposed to be transmitted directly to mutualities, either through the work auditors or even less by the police services themselves. With regard to the appeal procedures provided for by law, the insured persons concerned may lodge an appeal against the decision to recover indus before the Labour Court within three months of its notification. Finally, if a report is drawn up by the social inspector, the persons concerned are contacted in order to assert their defences before any sanction is applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u82	Madam Minister, thank you for the clarifications you have given that allow us to have another vision of the device. I will allow myself to circulate your answer. However, from the moment a device is designed in this way, one can imagine that there may be certain drifts. It seems to me that the person concerned must be able to have information about what is being criticized for whatever the situation is. She must be able to know what's going to happen to her and be heard. In fact, when it comes to the labour court, it means a long time; there is a great risk of not being able to benefit from the necessary allowance or income and thus falling into precariousness and great poverty.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u83	On 16 September, it was reported in the press that a technical letter recently sent to the mutual societies by the Banque-Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale proposed a new system of centralisation of data aimed at improving the transmission of data between administrations. They appear to be asked to provide sensitive data such as the names of affiliates, the percentage of loss of autonomy and the type of disability they have, as well as the type of allowance they receive (CPAS, social assistance or other). The aim would be to create a very large central file. Although today the Banque-Carrefour de la Sécurité sociale allows the exchange of data between institutions, personal data remain stored in the institutions concerned: medical data in mutuals, social data with CPAS, tax data at the SPF Finances. In the article, the Chief Executive Officer of Banque Carrefour justifies this approach by a desire to automate the benefits to be enjoyed by persons with disabilities and other persons entitled to these interventions. However, this request is considered to be worrying because it creates a central data bank for the most disadvantaged people and social recipients suspected of being potential fraudsters. Minister, are you aware of this process by the deputy head of the Banque-Carrefour de la Sécurité sociale? Do you agree with this data centralization project? What are the expected developments? Or are developments of any kind other than those mentioned in the press?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u84	Mrs Gerkens, automation of the granting of social tariffs and social status rights are included in the government agreement. The project is ambitious because it is a matter of automatically providing eligible social insurance beneficiaries with additional rights by avoiding as many red tape as possible and taking into account their actual social situation. A disabled person who, on the basis of his right to benefit for disabled persons, for example, is entitled to discounts from public transit, water, gas, electricity or telephone companies, will no longer be required to send a paper certificate to all kinds of bodies, but will automatically receive benefits through electronic data exchange. Every effort is made to ensure that the principle of proportionality is respected. Indeed, the addressee receives only the information he needs to find that the person concerned satisfies the condition in order to benefit from the advantage and nothing more. The concept of the Banque-Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale is that no personal data should in principle be recorded at a central level. Relevant personal data shall be transmitted by the institutions which possess them. It is a supply-driven system, also known as the push system. They can also be requested from the institutions that own them; it is a demand-driven system, also known as the sweater system. In the project you are talking about, this rule also prevails. However, we note that sending or requesting data on an ad hoc basis is not sufficient to automatically grant benefits in as many situations as possible. Sometimes, for example, it is necessary to combine the data of many institutions and when one of these institutions is unable to provide this data directly, the answer is incomplete and the person concerned does not benefit from the automatic granting of social benefits. Moreover, in many cases, not only the data relating to the individual concerned but also the members of the household must be taken into account. In other cases, a comparison of important files is required, and when data are to be requested ad hoc from the different data sources, this leads to a huge workload. In order to optimize the automatic granting of rights, it would therefore be essential for a minimum set of consistent data to be readily available in aggregated form. The Sectoral Committee on Social Security and Health, whose members have been appointed by Parliament, ensures that privacy principles are respected in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u85	Your answer highlights a concern to achieve the empowerment of rights. Of course, I fully share this concern. I also find it very interesting to improve the collection and codification of data so that they can be used. However, with a revamped system, I fear that the objective of a central data bank will be reached where all the information will be available, and that is what I am opposed to. Your answer does not show us how this will be put in place in practice. Will the institutions keep their data? You tell us that this last type of data is not complete and that it is necessary to obtain additional personal or family data. I don't fully visualize the alternative you're proposing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u86	You don't know how the Carrefour Bank works. These are data streams. As soon as you inquire about the content of the data about a particular person, a key is needed to access it. There is an opportunity to cross-check the data and to consult all flows that may provide information. These data are not centralized in their storage because it would be dangerous for security. With regard to the advantages of the formula, it is not always necessary to consult all the data at any given time (e.g. the type of car that onetel owns) but only to consult the data that respond to the request of the moment. No storage is centralized, it's virtual and that's how the Carrefour Bank has been operating for a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u87	That's right. That's why I was surprised to read that the deputy head of the Banque-Carrefour had asked the various institutions to transmit the data to him to centralize them at the level of the Banque-Carrefour to have in one place all the information, whereas in my vision too, and in what is necessary, it is indeed flows of information that can be crossed. I guess this request was a momentary mistake...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u88	I don't know. I didn't get that request, but I know how it works.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic249x.u89	But the administrator's idea was to change the way it works by centralizing the data. I have asked you the question and what I would like to ask you is whether or not there has been this intention and whether or not we have taken steps to respect the principles that you have just explained and that I share as to how this should work.
