ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic156x.u1	Mr President, first of all I would like to say that I am somewhat embarrassed because the committee has to meet because of these two questions. I have two questions that are actually interrelated. The first one relates to Facebook. On 1 April there was a debate on this in the Flemish Parliament. We see that new rules on privacy have been postponed and that the debate is becoming very sensitive. We did not notice that in the previous legislature, but this legislature, perhaps because we have a Secretary of State specifically for this, is the case. There seems to be a tendency in which people all wanted to be accessible earlier, while today they want some attention to be paid to their data. We are seeing an upward trend in the interest of privacy. The Infrastructure Committee deals specifically with the operators, but it is also said that there is a specific problem with the big world players, Facebook, Google and so on, and with the new apps. It is said that Facebook violates privacy with the regularity of a clock. GPS locations are stored and the websites visited by both users and non-users are monitored. The question then is, of course, how we deal with it. I have a few questions on the subject. The Privacy Commission has again made some studies. What conclusions have been drawn from this? There was a study by iMinds, the KU Leuven and the VUB, commissioned by the Privacy Commission. Have there been lessons learned from this and an action plan has been drawn up? You say that we need a European approach to this problem, which is only logical. On the other hand, there is also a certain national competence in the legislative field. What steps will you take within the framework of national competence and, of course, at European level? After all, one does not have to rule out the other. It is noted that both users and non-users are controlled. It seems pretty annoying to me if a company does that. To what extent do you have contact with Facebook to act against it? The legislation in this area dates back to the 1990s and is perhaps somewhat outdated. In the meantime, the world has changed and we have changed a bit ourselves. Is there an initiative to modernise this legislation in view of the new challenges? A coordination working group has been set up at European level. Belgium, together with Germany and the Netherlands, has forwarded an impressive list of infringements. What action do you expect to be taken on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic156x.u2	Mr President, Mr Geerts, you are quoting it yourself. It is an item that will increasingly come to the attention of the people. You yourself refer to the 1991 law, the privacy laws are already 20 years old. If you know at what speed social media, as well as Internet usage, has increased in recent years and will increase in the years to come, then privacy is a very important issue and will continue to be so in the future. People are becoming increasingly aware of this, especially when people are included in more data files. If, of course, they do not change their behaviour on the Internet and on the social media, there is indeed a risk that such Internet companies will eventually have a better knowledge of a person than the person themselves. Facebook's knowledge of a person eventually becomes better than its own self-knowledge, because that company can perfectly extract a number of trends from the use of social media, as well as from visits to different websites. I have read the conclusions of the ICRI study carefully. The study is part of the preparatory work of the note drawn up by the Privacy Commission on my question on that issue. I had expressed all my concerns, not only about Facebook but also about Snapchat, where a number of things were going on. I had also noticed that a number of things had happened abroad, which is why I asked the Privacy Commission to investigate that. The study shows that concerns about Facebook's user conditions have rightly been expressed by your side and by my side. This is confirmed by the steps we have already taken. Facebook is a very big player. The company minimizes that a bit, but it is a young company with over 5 million active users in Belgium and 1.4 billion worldwide. If you have 5 million active users in a country like Belgium, you are a huge company. There are few companies in Belgium that have 5 million customers. Companies must comply with the rules of the game. This applies to small businesses and SMEs, but also to an international giant like Facebook. If they do not want to comply with legislation, both national and European, legal action will be taken. We will look at where we will end in the light of the report on Facebook. As far as our actions at national level are concerned, according to the information I have at my disposal, the Privacy Commission has started a recommendation procedure based on the study. Last Wednesday, Facebook visited the Privacy Commission, where both representatives of Facebook and experts from the research center iMinds of KU Leuven were present. I do not want to anticipate these conclusions. I expect the recommendations of the Privacy Commission by May 13th. It is correct that I myself had two meetings with representatives of Facebook, but they did not concern the judicial procedure. Both meetings took place at the request of Facebook. During the first conversation, I made it very clear that this did not fit in with the ongoing investigation of the Privacy Commission. The Privacy Commission is an independent authority that has to do its job. I will not intervene in this as Secretary of State. I did ask them to cooperate. I have also made it clear that they must comply with the legislation. However, I have engaged with them in dialogue on their privacy policy, their communication and, above all, their pedagogical approach. As far as the European level is concerned, I am in favour of a firm European approach for the world players. Since I became Secretary of State at the European Forum, I have always argued for a strong European privacy watchdog. Our own Privacy Commission plays its full role and this will increasingly be the case in the future. After all, we have discovered that the world players do not always comply with the legislation. We are working on the European regulation. We are now finalising this, and normally a European meeting will be held in June to extend the powers of the national privacy committees. This chapter still needs to be addressed, but it is intended that the privacy committees, which are now playing a more advisory role, will have a regulatory role. This means that we will have to reform the Privacy Commission in this area. At the moment, it is an institution which is appointed by Parliament. There will also need to be a European board that coordinates the European approach of global players such as Google, Facebook, WhatsApp and so on. During my latest meeting with Facebook, they asked for it themselves. One of the top people, Mr Allen, expressed his dissatisfaction in an opinion document in The Telegraph about the fact that there are 28 different approaches in Europe and that it is very difficult for him to follow and respect all these laws. I said that as long as there is no European regulation coordinating everything, he must comply with national legislation. That may be difficult, but the situation here is quite different from that in the United States, where this can be regulated nationally. I can understand that the big players ask a European interlocutor to look at how they can comply with European rules. We are not waiting for that. The European Privacy Committees, the Data Protection Authorities or DPAs, are joining forces. Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany and Hamburg In Germany different situations have been initiated. France and Spain have started a procedure. Information is exchanged among each other and agreements are made. The investigation and the procedure in the respective Member States are not conducted in the same way, but they focus on the privacy policy and the conclusions of the study of the ICRI of KU Leuven. A European approach can be beneficial. Google is proof of that. I think, after discreet conversations with the various privacy committees, they will align their privacy policies accordingly. I myself will take a number of initiatives on the basis of the principles adopted in the European regulation. This means that I do not have to wait until that regulation is complete. We have already completed a number of chapters. So I know she's coming in and in which direction it's going. The privacy landscape will therefore need to be adapted. It's better to talk to the big players, who can't be out of our society anymore. Pretending they don't exist isn't an option for me. I'm following two lines. I am talking to the companies involved which are a threat to privacy and I am sending a very clear message that privacy is very important to us. I give the message that the data that people share is their own. If you put something on Facebook, of course you should not complain that it is on Facebook. However, if Facebook uses this data to do something other than what people wanted to do with it, another discussion will take place. It is good to keep talking to Facebook and to make it clear that not everything can and that there are limits, including in Europe. However, I must allow the Privacy Commission to play its role and ensure that the laws and European directives are respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic156x.u3	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, you are talking about that report and the timing of 13 May 2015 to do that follow-up, to see which instruments the Privacy Commission puts forward. It is true that this is an instrument of Parliament. It is of course also important that you have your own conversations with the companies themselves. I've only been working on it since this legislature. My next question is about Google, and I note that in Spain there are, after all, judgments that have an impact on the whole of the European Union, with questions for a preliminary ruling which the Court of Justice will then have to decide on. I understand that these big companies are calling for coordinated legislation, because it is different everywhere now, but there are statements at European level that have an immediate impact on our country. However, it is indeed very complex.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic156x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, you have already indicated in your answer to the previous question that the talks with Google are already at a further stage than with Facebook. After all, there has already been consultations to reach an agreement on adaptations to national privacy laws. Google indicates that it does so in the different European countries. However, the company prefers a coordinated approach. A study by the research firm Digital Strategy Consulting indicates that every user delivers Google 42 euros per quarter in the business results. You mentioned five million users of Facebook and Google earlier. So we are talking about a huge new economy, of an order that we have not yet experienced. After all, a push on a button brings about a large economic turnover and added value. So we will also have to develop a new way of thinking. I have already indicated in my previous question that our legislation has absolutely not been adapted to that. We have just spoken with your colleague, Minister De Croo, about market regulation vis-à-vis operators. However, we are probably far too late. We focus on the provider of the services, but not on the companies that place the content themselves. This may pose a problem in our legislative arsenal. So it's about new economics and huge players. It is a good thing that the European approach is paying off, but it must also be regulated nationally. Mr Secretary of State, Google is prepared to comply with Belgian privacy legislation. What rules has Google infringed and does the company now want to comply with the legislation? The content of the discussions should still be launched, including at European level. What's the timing? I have just mentioned the question about Facebook.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic156x.u5	Mr Geerts, first of all it is important to stress that this is a European exercise, which is entirely in line with the policy I am trying to promote and defend. Google is working out a proposal and a response that is in line with European legislation and national legislation, which, of course, also comes from European legislation. Essentially, the terms of use will be changed and Google will not only give more information to the users of its services, but also more options. The most important thing is that the user's express consent will be required before further processing of personal data by Google. There is a difference between the tacit consent and the express consent. This is indeed a question of express consent. The Privacy Commission has informed me that it expects the implementation of the new Terms of Use by the end of June. A study will then have to be carried out on the effective development and application of the new conditions of use. This will be done in the following months, in summer and autumn. By the end of this year, the various European privacy authorities will normally be able to assess whether the new Google Terms of Use and their effective application comply with the different privacy rules. The proof of the pudding is in the eating . According to the Privacy Commission, Google is serious and Google wants to adapt its policy fairly clearly to European and national laws. It is clear that Google's attitude, which is one of the leading world players, also affects other operators such as Facebook. I have already said that we are talking, but we also assume that the case law of the European Court of Justice can be applied mutatis mutandis in the case of Google Spain. The precedent certainly sends a wider signal to other actors, which will also be strengthened once the new European regulation applies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic156x.u6	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. An important step is the express consent. As I said, I believe that European legislation should consider the extent to which the national legislator can take initiatives.
