ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic206x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, at some point you indicated that you would be working on Benelux trade missions and that this is an agreement. I suspect that a number of criteria and a number of reasons of both a functional and a pecuenic nature are behind that decision. It is more sensible to work together, which will probably also have some benefits in terms of efficiency. There is also an economic logic to this. However, I also refer to a number of questions that I have put to the other committee, including the Minister of Finance, about how our country lags behind in that development economy. The Netherlands, for example, has so far made a much more favourable course in this area. At the moment, even through the World Bank, partnerships are being created to use, for example, the Dutch water technology almost exclusively as technology within new tenders that are being written out. I think that, frankly, is very strong. The Dutch also make relatively little distinction between the aid and the state aid they offer to companies in this respect and the economic developments that are taking place there. We are a long way behind in this area. There is, of course, something to say in both directions. With its bio-legislation, Belgium is trying to keep a good separation between the two, for which there is something to be said. However, we note that countries such as the Netherlands and Japan can progress much faster. That is why I have the following questions. First of all, how do you see these Benelux trade missions? What are the benefits of these missions? In what way are these agreements arranged? Secondly, is cooperation in the field of development cooperation also being considered in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic206x.u2	I will give an answer on the state of play, i.e. on 1 July 2015. The prime ministers in question, together with representatives of the government and the vice-premiers, sat together in Brussels on 29 April for the Benelux summit, where Belgium acted as President. The Benelux countries want to continue to play a leading role in the field of economic integration in the EU with 28 Member States, but they also want to play a leading role, and I support this platform to address the cross-border challenges in a concrete and effective way, especially given that the main trading partners of each of the different parts of the Benelux countries are the same, in particular Germany, the United Kingdom and France. For the non-European states, too, this is the United States of America, as well as for the countries of the hinterland or the former Eastern Europe. The Prime Ministers held an exchange of views on the main European issues and topical issues. This was about cooperation at European level, the fight against radicalism and terrorism and also the importance of trade. That last item was not the main item on the agenda, but it was raised. This was on the agenda item "Updating economic and monetary union, creating a three-part interplay between investment, structural reform and budgetary responsibility'. We immediately focused on the negotiations with the US on the TTIP agreement, you know. Our position and also that of the Benelux countries is to seek an early conclusion of the negotiations and to adopt an open communication on them. The Netherlands and Belgium have for the most part the same starting point for TTIP, especially in the field of bio-related events. You referred to that. There is sometimes a difference of opinion as to agri-business when it comes to imports and exports of certain products in livestock farming, vegetable and gardening and niche farming. The Netherlands made a proposal at the summit to organise joint trade missions. In concrete terms, no date, format, destination or sector has been agreed. It is therefore an option that will have to be developed for the time being. In the meantime, of course, there are other trade missions at another level. That's not the first time. In a previous legislature, the Prime Minister of the Netherlands, together with the then Prime Minister, undertook a trade mission to the United States. If I am not mistaken, there would also be a new mission of that order to West Africa, Ghana and Senegal. That is all there is at present in the Member States. Furthermore, no work has been done for this purpose. I'd like to look into it more thoroughly and steer it. I think it is a good thing, but no decision has been taken. There was no mention of the World Bank as such at that time. That is what I can tell you right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic206x.u3	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your detailed reply. I think that we should look at the development cooperation section with the various departments in detail, because we are really going to let ourselves be sanded there. We are getting past, especially in a number of areas. I found the collaboration that the Netherlands has concluded in the field of water technology and water engineering, a powerful signal. I think that the country has handled this well, typical of its Dutch. We have really been allowed to do so, while technology and knowledge are absolutely available here. In the area of dredging or docking, for example, we are at least as far away. We have that technology in our house, too. It's a little frustrating to see our companies being tactically sidelined. Perhaps we should do some very thorough work on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic206x.u4	Mr President, Secretary of State, first of all, know that I am delighted to see you today. It's been a long time since you stood before this committee. We missed you. Don't hesitate to come to visit us more often. We will always be happy to see you and ask you questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic206x.u5	I'm at your disposal. The lack was mutual.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic206x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, the Government Agreement provides for the establishment of a National Business and Human Rights Action Plan, which we look forward to presenting. On the sidelines of the World Social Forum held in March 2015 in Tunis and in which I was able to participate, I had the opportunity to hear Ms.Amani Allagui, coordinator of the Tunisian Forum for Economic and Social Rights, give an insight into the textile industry in her country. She explained that Monastir is the capital of textiles, a vital sector for Tunisia, which accounts for a third of industrial enterprises. It currently employs about 185,000 workers while it employed 250,000 before 2005. They are mostly young, exploited, sometimes illiterate women from the poorer regions of the South. The deterioration in employment dates back to the dismantling of the Multifibre Agreement ten years ago. No less than 87 factories in the textile industry in the Monastir region had to close their doors between 2007 and 2012, leaving many people without work. In doing so, some employers feel more free hands than ever and increase violations of labour rights. This is, in any case, what a survey carried out in collaboration with the Tunisian Forum for Economic and Social Rights has demonstrated. This investigation, conducted on the basis of 28 firms, gathered 260 rather alarming accounts. Mr Secretary of State, are you aware of this situation? How does your government's National Business and Human Rights Action Plan intend to combat this kind of scandalous practices that violate social norms? What are you doing in the drafting of this Plan? What will be the broad guidelines? What are the objectives? What actions are planned to achieve these objectives? What indicators are planned to assess their sustainable impact? How, in the future, can we prevent such practices in our trade relations and help countries such as Tunisia to combat such practices?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic206x.u7	Mr President, dear colleague, the objective of the National Action Plan (NAP) Enterprise and Human Rights will be to implement the 31 guiding principles of the United Nations, which were unanimously adopted by the Human Rights Council in June 2011, in line with the commitments that Belgium and the European Union have made in this respect in the European Union's strategic framework on human rights and democracy and the related action plan. All of the areas covered are very complex and require the involvement of a significant number of stakeholders at the level of the authorities as well as consultations with stakeholders. Given the topics covered, this plan will include actions at the federal level. It goes without saying that the Regions will also have an important role to play. At the federal level, important basic work has already been done, including an initial consultation with stakeholders, including trade unions, launched in 2014, and an assessment of our country's legislation and policies with regard to the 31 guiding principles. This state of affairs allows us to better understand the legislative and political landscape in this area and thus identify any gaps that may exist. In parallel with these exercises, the Federal Drafting Committee of the National Action Plan, in which the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation is actively participating, is drafting a first draft for the federal contribution, which will bring together a little more than 20 actions. These will be submitted for comments to stakeholders, including trade unions, by the summer. Since this is a mixed jurisdiction, we have asked the Regions to provide a contribution. We hope to receive them before the summer. As regards workers' rights, they have been identified as one of the priority areas to be analysed and addressed, both at the level of the state of play and at the level of the NAP itself. In addition, the Plan will provide an opportunity to reaffirm Belgium's support for a number of commitments made in forums other than that of the Human Rights Council that overlap with the same principles, such as the guidelines for multinational corporations that were revised in 2011 by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) or a series of commitments focusing on workers' rights made at the level of the International Labour Organization (ILO). The Plan of Action is therefore intended to raise awareness among our companies of respect for human rights not only in their own capacity, but also in their supply chain. Beyond respect for human rights, its aim is to encourage Belgian companies to have a positive impact in this area within their sphere of influence, particularly abroad. In raising corporate awareness, special attention will be given to the issue of children's rights. At the macroeconomic level, Belgium will pay close attention to the ratification, support and promotion of a series of ILO conventions related to women's rights, and will continue to advocate for wider ratification of these conventions, particularly vis-à-vis countries such as Tunisia.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic206x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for this information. I see it's moving forward. Nevertheless, I fear that this Plan will have a rather limited impact. If I understand correctly, it is essentially a matter of raising awareness among businesses and encouraging them to have a positive impact, through their work, on the human rights situation. I have the impression that we remain on a voluntary basis, and that we are not moving towards something binding or mandatory. I am therefore somewhat concerned that, as in the case of conflict minerals, some companies will do the work and show good will to enforce the rules and implement the actions that will be proposed, but that we will not see systematic application, that there will be no control to ensure that human rights are effectively respected, let alone sanctions. I fear that all this will remain in the sphere of good intentions but will not bring any concrete improvement. With regard to the specific situation in Tunisia I have mentioned, I have not heard a reply. You have not told me how Belgium could have an impact on the situation, and I regret that. We again have the impression of remaining in the field of good intentions. As soon as it comes to implementing something concretely, it becomes more complicated and I regret it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic206x.u9	Mr President, Secretary of State, I would like to question you following the publication of several articles in the press concerning the missions you have carried out since you took office. Can you give me a brief description of the different missions in which you participated and your role in them? Can you also give us an account of these different movements? What achievements have been made during these various missions, your State Secretariat and your department at the federal level? Since you took office, what have you done in practice to preserve, sustain and encourage the added value of the federal government, in terms of its competence, in terms of diplomacy, representations abroad and economic relations, notably through the Federal Agency for Foreign Trade for the benefit of Belgian companies and all the federated entities? What about the future of this Agency?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic206x.u10	Mr President, my colleague, as I mentioned in my policy statement, I intend to support businesses as much as possible through an inclusive approach aimed at economic growth and prosperity in our country. This by fully supporting regional initiatives, updating and refining where necessary the instruments of export financing or at federal level, while defending the interests of our businesses and economic society at international level, in a spirit of federalism of cooperation. Therefore, I am acting within the government for companies as part of their exports but also in Belgium for foreign companies. The government's ambition is to pursue a growth policy by strengthening the country's competitiveness, promoting socio-economic recovery and thus ensuring the creation of additional jobs by our companies. In this regard, the federal government's fiscal and social policy has an important role to play in attracting real investments for which the federal level will support the Regions. Indeed, the government agreement literally states: "It is essential in this respect that our foreign policy constitutes, in order to respond to the Belgian institutional reality, a complementary and coherent whole where each level of power has its interests properly defended. On the basis of this principle of federalism of cooperation, the SPF Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation organises the consultation with the authorities concerned on an equal basis in order to promote the cohesion of Belgium's foreign policy". That being said, the Secretary of State for Foreign Trade exercises, according to the decisions of the Council of Ministers, concrete authority over the following bodies of the FPS Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation: 1. the Agency for Foreign Trade; 2. - service B2 with regard to the financing instruments of the holding: - the National Office of the Ducroire: joint supervision with the Ministers of Finance and Economy - Finexpo; 3. in addition, the following services of the Directorate-General for Bilateral Affairs: - service B3.1 as regards the problem of economic missions, in cooperation with the Agency for Foreign Trade and the Regions, - service B3.2, with the exception of the file relating to economic diplomacy advisers. In the course of my duties, in recent months I have carried out a series of missions that fall within the different formulas, i.e. royal visits or state visits with an economic component, the princely missions by Princess Astrid, who is the representative of her brother, King Philip, and the thematic or targeted missions. These thematic missions are organised at the request of companies and economic sectors and open doors to them abroad, mainly by offering them the opportunity to sit around the table with competent ministers abroad, thus enabling them to present their case in a direct and coherent way. To answer your question in practical terms, let me give you a detailed overview of the missions. There are royal visits with an economic component. As you know, last week, the King and Queen's State visit to China took place. There are principal missions such as those carried out in Peru and Colombia in December 2014, Malaysia and Singapore in November 2014, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates in March 2015. There are thematic and targeted missions such as those carried out in India on port activities, diamonds, infrastructure, ecology, and in Brazil on port activities, diamonds, agriculture, biopharmaceuticals, food, in March 2015. There were multi-sectoral missions to Russia and Azerbaijan in April 2014. There was a mission to the United States on technology, innovation and transportation in May 2015. There was the Agoria mission which took place in France with the European championship as its reference, more specifically as regards the positioning and the opportunity for our companies in terms of organisation, last June. Finally, there were also missions in June, Bulgaria and Hungary on food and technology. It is therefore impossible to translate the results of these economic missions into figures in order to have an immediate quantitative approach. The diplomatic reports of our ambassadors on the spot, however, are all very positive in terms of feedback from bilateral partners on the role of a federal State Secretariat and on companies that generate immediate return by entering into contracts or who receive direct access at the desired level. As an example, let me quote our Ambassador's report to Brazil after my visit to Brasilia and Sao Paulo: "The Secretary of State, Pieter De Crem, made a very successful working visit to Brasilia from 10 to 13 March. Through intense lobbying and targeted contacts, this position has resulted in the Secretary of State meeting with four federal ministers, a Deputy Minister and an Under-Secretary of State. This success is due to the relevance of the interviews requested with a list of discussion points, the joint organization of high-level events such as the Customs Congress and the Kimberley Process seminar, and the timing of the visit. The government was sworn in on January 1, 2015 and really started operating after mid-February. The Secretary of State was thus the first visitor of this level to meet, for example, the Minister of Ports, Agriculture, the Vice-President and many others." Of course, my work has not been limited to the many missions abroad. In Belgium, I have received foreign trade delegations, for example from Lebanon, Nicaragua, Kenya, New Zealand, Australia and many others. I have also had contacts with various sectors: diamond, ports, construction, FEB, Agoria and regional organisations. In addition, I am in active contact with the various chambers of commerce in Belgium and abroad. I have already made dozens of visits across Belgium. Within my office and within the framework of my expertise, I have also contributed to the following federal plans: the Federal Plan for SMEs and Independents, the National Plan of Action for Business and Human Rights, the Federal Plan to Combat Poverty, the Federal Plan for the Implementation of Gender Mainstreaming and the Implementation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Finally, with regard to your specific question on the External Trade Agency, I would like to point out that while the FPS Foreign Affairs was still taking half of the external trade agency's budget on its behalf in 2014, this share increased in 2015 to two thirds of the budget. Thanks to savings and the generation of a number of new revenues through the introduction of a new application, the Agency has been able to cope with this new reality. In addition, the Agency's new role in organising the enhanced economic aspect of State visits must naturally be mentioned. Last week in China, the Agency proved once again its performance and efficiency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic206x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you for the accuracy of your answer, which reassures me, and I invite you to send it to Bart De Wever since he was recently concerned about how you occupied your days. That would deserve him to know. Mr President, it would be interesting to have a debriefing of the missions. The Secretary of State outlined a series of missions. I know that it is difficult to obtain a costed balance sheet directly on the return of missions. Sometimes it takes a little time. Nevertheless, I think it would be appropriate to have the debriefings of the various missions carried out, of the various contacts established. It's about transparency. On the other hand, I would like to know on a regular basis the state of play, the state of relations with the federated entities. They are known to play an important role in foreign trade. There is therefore a need for coordination. Knowing what is being done, what could be done, what could be improved in contacts between the levels of power, I am asking for this kind of debate in our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic206x.u12	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for addressing this question separately because it has a different subject than the previous one. When discussing your policy statement, we had a brief exchange of views on the tasks of the External Trade Agency. We know that there is a reduced amount of money and that this should actually reopen the debate on the tasks. You referred very correctly to the government agreement on the supporting role and refinement of the federal level in consultation with the Länder. This must reflect the Belgian institutional reality. In that context, it was said that one would look at how to make savings and how to transfer certain tasks to the Länder. Mr. Secretary of State, is that conversation already ongoing? Have you discussed this with your colleagues at regional level? Can you give us any news on this committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic206x.u13	Mr Luykx, the tasks of the External Trade Agency are defined by the cooperation agreement of 24 May 2002. In carrying out the agreement, the Executive Board of the Agency shall make every effort to ensure the performance of all the tasks set out therein. For example, the Agency for Foreign Trade, in cooperation with the regional export promotion services and the FPS Foreign Affairs, organises the joint economic shipments. I should like to inform you that the business community is calling repeatedly and in ever clearer terms for more economic missions to be organised at federal level. That's a statement. The Board of Directors of the ABH agency is a management body in which both the federal government and the three Regions are represented. This Council has not taken any decision towards a reduction in tasks. I should say, quite the contrary. In December 2014, the Board unanimously entrusted the Agency ABH with a new mission, namely the logistical organisation and management of the economic and academic part of the state visit. The Council has thus not taken the path of a reduction in tasks, but perhaps a reorientation of tasks. However, the general management proposed to transfer the Overseas Business Opportunities service to the Regions. However, the three Regions have opposed this because they consider it essential or considered that the Agency should continue to ensure this service to the Regions. The other tasks are set out in the cooperation agreement and cannot be transferred to the regions. Over the last few years, the Agency's general management has taken numerous measures to save money. As a result, operating costs have decreased by 35% since 2010. The number of staff was also reduced from 48 at the time the ABH was established to 36 staff members at the moment. As further savings would jeopardise the implementation of the cooperation agreement, the general management does not see room for new substantial savings. An action plan to generate new revenues was therefore proposed to the Management Board. This plan was unanimously approved by the Council, i.e. by the representatives of the Regions and the federal government. An initial evaluation of this is foreseen for September. In this way, I think I have answered your three questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic206x.u14	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State. The fucking shit's gonna go to hell. You're looking for more revenue. Despite the reform or reduction of staff, the Agency's tasks remain very important. It is good to coordinate regional and federally with all the actors involved, together with the comments in the press that we all want and do not want the same thing. Idem velle atque idem nolle, fortiam amicitia est, to make a third statement in line with the amicitia.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic206x.u15	...sed veritas amicus magis est.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic206x.u16	I read it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic206x.u17	Plato's a friend, but the truth is a bigger friend.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic206x.u18	The truth does indeed have its rights and that is why we are here. We must be able to question you so that we can get true and good answers. Thank you very much for your answer. The cooperation agreement is indeed decisive, but it will have to be discussed in a number of areas, including external relations. A great deal remains to be done, including with regard to the revision of the cooperation agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic206x.u19	Mr Secretary of State, in April 2015, the Agency for Foreign Trade launched the Trade4U mobile application, where companies can find information on international public procurement, trade opportunities, etc. for a contribution of EUR 150 per year. I read that your colleague Minister Reynders was present at the UNITEE Business and Trade Fair on 16 June, where he was introduced to this application. This is in the European interest where we are looking for more employment and must ensure that we do not miss out on commercial opportunities. Mr Secretary of State, I have a number of specific questions about this project. Firstly, how did this initiative come about? Was that at the request of the companies or is it an initiative of the agency itself? Second of all, didn't this already exist? Is this unique or is it a copy fitting of a similar initiative, with improvements? Thirdly, the project was recently launched. Is it possible to get concrete figures on the number of companies that subscribed to them? Did an evaluation of the project take place yet? Fourthly, what is the role of a number of sponsors, such as Suez and ING in this project? Could you give us a little more explanation on that? Finally, I read that AWEX and FIT were also involved in the UNITEE Business and Trade Fair. What is the concrete situation for this project? Has that been discussed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic206x.u20	Mr Luyckx, the economic landscape in Belgium is made up of more than 90% SMEs. As we all know, they have neither the means nor the time to seek opportunities for international trade opportunities in the masses. The Agency for Foreign Trade consults more than 270 sites and makes international projects. It makes open calls for tenders which are of interest to businesses and, first of all, it also makes them known. They are very often not known by the potential interested. This is an important time-saving in itself. Offering the platform for mobile devices........................................................................................................................................................ Nowadays an email on two is read via a smartphone or tablet and no longer via a fixed computer. In addition to responding to a market demand, the development of this package was also seen as a new source of funding. There are private companies which distribute international trade opportunities, but their services differ fundamentally from Trade4U in the following points. I'd still like to shed some light on this. The quality of the offer is inferior to that of Trade4U. The ABH collects information on potential opportunities even before their official publication. This maximises the opportunities of Belgian companies and diplomatic posts. The commercial representatives of the Region contribute to the feeding of this information. The companies subscribed to Trade4U thus have privileged sources and not only opportunities that are made available on the Internet. Trade4U subscribers particularly appreciate the service to obtain textbooks. The Agency takes the necessary administrative steps abroad, which does not offer one private company. As far as we know, the platform for mobile devices is not offered by private companies and the price they demand is five to ten times higher than that for the Trade4U package, where two seminars are also offered annually. The latter is included in the price. The additional statistical subscription is not offered by any company on the private market. At present 250 companies have subscribed, which is significant given the recent launch of the application and the specificity of the Belgian market with many, small companies. The feedback received is extremely positive, both in terms of quality and quantity of information. The agency listens carefully to this feedback from the companies and also intends to further develop the service as it currently exists, but also to improve efficiency. The sponsorship you mentioned is necessary and was used to fund the organisation of the Trade4U opening seminar. I shall then come to your final question. The Management Board of the External Trade Agency in which the region's seat is situated approved the development of this offer. The project was developed in cooperation with the region's regions. The logos of the regions are used in all e-mails sent to the customers and they also appear in the app. The regions have published the offer on their website and complement the export sheets. I think this is also a good example of an inclusive approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic206x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. I have received sufficient answers to all my questions. I think that you can indeed use this funding well and determine your unique selling proposition of this agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic206x.u22	Mr Secretary of State, the leaders of several African countries have signed the Treaty on the Tripartite Free Trade Area in Cairo. They agree to unite three existing trading blocs into a single free trade area. This will bring together the Southern African Development Community, the East African Community and the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa, bringing together 26 African countries from Cape Town to Cairo. The aim is to simplify trade across Africa and thus improve trade between the various African states. The African continent faces huge challenges in terms of governance, among others. Corruption and various obstructive structures and barriers prevent more trade and cooperation. Despite these problems, the agreement could represent a step forward. Mr Secretary of State, do you think that the initiative will bring progress in African trade? Do you consider the agreement to be an improvement on the existing trading areas? Can you explain that in more detail? What do you think are the main challenges to achieve it? What can the consequences and opportunities be for Belgian traders operating in that part of the world?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic206x.u23	Mrs Lijnen, like all countries and continents in the world, Africa will have to work on sustainable development. Sometimes that happens, to a greater or lesser extent. After all, sustainable economy leads to fewer conflicts and possibly more democratisation. There is not necessarily a link between one continent and another on the African continent. Free trade is a good thing. I am in favour of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic206x.u24	So are we.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic206x.u25	Free trade is a good thing to the extent that it really contributes to sustainable development. The link can be determined, but is not always sufficient. Free trade must be subject to a number of conditions, in which the protection of local sustainable production and, above all, environmental and environmental factors play an important role. We shall be able to agree on that. The signing of the Convention on the Tripartite Free Trade Area of the EAC, SADC and COMESA was well received because a large market of 600 million users is served. In addition, cooperation between the three organisations will increase efficiency and coherence. We are also talking about a further more comprehensive project, in particular the creation of a continent free trade area at the initiative of the African Union, which we also support. What are the main challenges? The challenge is, of course, the effective implementation of the TFTA, as there are still many tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade. During the various princely economic missions and the thematic missions that I have undertaken over the last few months and which I referred to and explained at the start of the committee, contacts with companies also showed that, above all, tariff and non-tariff barriers also prevent our companies from investing and allowing these new consumers to enter the consumer market. There are also major economic differences between countries and regions, which are also very problematic for the functioning of a free trade area, in particular for the free trade area in question. However, this is not an exclusive African problem, as we can see in South America, Central America and Asia. The large differences between countries and regions remain problematic. Moreover, the main problem is that there is little or even no infrastructure and the lack of infrastructure projects, which also has to do with efficient communication. Finally, the positive impact of the new trading zone exists for Belgian economic operators in an increased attractiveness of a wider market. This market is clearly also a market for our products, which can also bring about Belgian growth in derived products. Goods will be able to circulate freely from northern Africa and the lighthouse from Alexandria to Cape Town, two more exceptionally good communication points once the TFTA has been introduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic206x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. I share your view that the TFTA also leads to better democracy and stability in the region in the best of the worlds. Let us see together what the future brings. We hope that the initiative will mean economic progress for the continent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic206x.u27	Mr Secretary of State, a few days ago the media reported that Belgium would have applied for the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. On the one hand, this membership would make it easier for Belgian companies to invest in China. On the other hand, the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank also intends to invest in the European economy. The Dutch candidacy was accepted earlier this year. In exchange for a capital injection of 1 billion dollars, the Netherlands has a voting weight of 1.16 %. In the article you speak of the advantage that it will give us much easier access to the Chinese economy. What benefits do you see compared to the current situation? Will these benefits be in proportion to the Belgian capital injection and voting weight in the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank? It is mentioned that the bank would focus mainly on infrastructure. How does this relate to the other sectors? Of course, membership offers the opportunity to invest in China. We are a little concerned about our Belgian companies, especially the manufacturing industry. What are the possible consequences for Belgian companies? What measures do you propose to make the transition as smooth as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic206x.u28	Mrs Bellens, on a proposal from the Minister for Finance, the Council of Ministers, in a large consensus of all the parties present, decided to accept the declaration of intent to apply for Belgian membership of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) The potential economic benefits of accession are twofold. On the one hand, there is access to Asian markets which are now experiencing significant growth. On the other hand, access to the Chinese capital market is in full expansion. In addition to the economic opportunities, accession also offers political advantages in view of the further development of our relations with Asia and China. Our membership will enable us, together with other partners, to resonate a series of important social and environmental concerns within the bank in the selection and approval of projects. One of the most important issues raised in our bilateral contacts is, of course, the major problem of environmental and environmental factors involved in Chinese economic development. This problem is not only in China itself, but also worldwide in the context of bringing certain standards into line, think of the Kyoto standard. The amount of the Belgian capital injection is not yet known. I suggest you ask Minister Van Overtveldt that question. I do not dismiss this question, but I do not know how much the capital injection is. I have an idea of this in general, but I do not know on which budget line it will be entered in concrete terms. This is a technical matter. It goes without saying that investment in infrastructure can benefit all sectors of the economy. Furthermore, we believe it is very important that the bank cooperates with the existing international financial institutions, including the Asian Development Bank, which, as you know, is also an important part of regional development. As regards mutual access to the European and Chinese markets, the European Union is engaged in a broad trade dialogue with China. For example, during Prime Minister Li Keqiang's visit to Brussels at the beginning of this week, it was agreed to strengthen the protection of intellectual property rights. Investment access is also the subject of negotiations between the European Union and China. In order to avoid unsustainable investment, Belgium is in favour of including a sustainable development chapter in this EU agreement. For more specific information, please question Mr Reynders. Consumer policy and the regions play an important role in industrial policy. It's a multifocal approach. I think it was time for Belgium to become part of the bank because a number of important neighbouring countries, with whom we have trade relations, have joined. I am not saying that we had the competitive disadvantage, but we wanted to avoid this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic206x.u29	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your detailed reply. I believe that there are indeed some very important aspects that we can take into account, as well as the cooperation with China and Asia in general, which is very important. It is perhaps interesting, since the Netherlands has already joined, to soon see what the advantage is for them and what we can possibly learn from it.
