ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u1	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my question concerns the settlement of the employment relationship. We know, of course, that the fight against bogus self-employment is a priority for every government and every minister for work. This is not only the case now, it was also the case in the previous government. This is a subject which has already been addressed in the legislation and the case-law. I remember that, at the beginning of the years 2000, it was assumed in the caselaw that the qualification given by the parties to a cooperation was not really relevant. It was ultimately up to the court to decide what the real nature of the cooperation was, of the employment relationship. Over time, this theme has experienced a lot of evolutions. In the end, the Court of Cassatie has said that there is something like qualification: the qualification given to cooperation is the starting point. This has also been the approach of the Programme Act of 27 December 2006, which has incorporated qualifications legally. It is based on the way in which the parties qualify a cooperation and only when there are conditions which are incompatible with it or which really exclude it will be requalified. Since then, the debate has become a little quieter, but it is becoming more and more topical. We just mentioned the construction sector. In the construction sector, the problem of social dumping is not only a problem of posting, but also a problem of false self-employment, as one sees the number of companies with a lot of working partners who are not employed at a hunger wage. That is pure, false competition against those who try to comply with the rules. In addition, for some time now it has been laid down that a ruling would be possible by submitting a prior cooperation to a ruling committee in order to obtain a qualification of a cooperation from a preventive approach. It took a while for the ruling committees to get to work effectively. It has been legally foreseen for several years, but they have only been compiled with two royal decrees dated 11 February 2013. They then had half a year of work in 2013 before the start of the ruling committee. She has also, I know, already issued an annual report. Meanwhile, 2014 is over. I am asking my question in response to the first annual report for those first months, which made it clear that the Dutch Chamber of the ruling committee would have dealt with only five dossiers and the French-speaking Chamber only one file, while it was considered as a means of getting rid of the discussion as to whether or not cooperation concerns an employment contract. It will then be seen that the system has only a very limited success or that it is not found its way there. Of course, we can also look at this in the short term, since it was only a limited part of the year, six months in 2013. I come to my questions. What is the Minister's view on the limited number of applications for social ruling at the Administrative Commission in 2013? Are there any figures for the year 2014, which is now over? Do you, as Minister, consider that the principle of that ruling and the setting up of the committee is likely to become an empty box if we obtain only such a number of dossiers in that committee? What is the Minister's view on the fact that parties could actually present an employment relationship already in existence on 1 January 2013 in 2013, when they only had six months to do so? Was that enough? Was that too little? Do we have to add to that if we want to? How does the Minister intend to create more legal certainty on determining the status of a person if the ruling board does not prove to be a sufficient means of dealing with the known problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u2	Mr President, I too would like to express my best wishes for 2015. Mes meilleurs voeux. I hope that we can work well together and that all your questions can also be answered, without excessive numbers. Mr Lachaert, the figures to which you refer and which are mentioned in the 2013 annual report relate to dossiers in which a decision was taken in 2013. In reality, 13 files were submitted in 2013: 6 to the French-speaking Chamber and 7 to the Dutch-speaking Chamber. Both the fact that the committee only became operational in August 2013 and the fact that a large number of files required additional information should be taken into account when assessing the limited number of files handled in 2013. You have actually referred to this yourself. In the course of 2014, 25 files were dealt with in both chambers: 16 French and 9 Dutch. I believe that the principle of the social ruling and the committee responsible are not empty boxes, nor are they likely to become empty boxes. In my view, it is far too early to draw any conclusions on this. Its existence may not yet be sufficiently known and its reputation must be given time to grow. The Act provided that the parties could jointly submit a request to the Committee within a period of 1 year from its entry into force, which is 31 December 2013. Therefore, the fact that the committee became operational in August 2013 did not prevent the parties from making a request within the time limit so as to obtain legal certainty about the statute. I'll come to the last element. The committee was given the social ruling. Parties acting in good faith and having doubts about the nature of their employment relationship may submit their situation in advance with a view to increasing legal certainty. The main objective of the committee is not to combat false self-employment, where the parties deliberately consider a social status which is not in line with reality and with the sole aim of achieving social benefit. The committee is an adequate means for the parties in need of legal certainty, so that they cannot get into trouble afterwards. However, the committee may only examine dossiers to the extent that they are submitted by the parties themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The committee was announced at the time as a rather good initiative to create legal certainty for existing and new situations. The number of files that have been dealt with may be slightly higher than that mentioned in the annual report, but it is still very limited. You think it is too early to draw conclusions, but we are now a year and a half further. I believe that in 2015 it will have to prove whether the committee is achieving its objective. On the ground, there is still a lot of reluctance to report a file to a ruling committee. There is a fear that the judgment may have negative consequences for the parties concerned. I will continue to follow up with you what 2015 brings, but so far I find the activities of the ruling committee very lean. We will probably have to look for other means to create more legal certainty when it comes to false self-employment and the various statutes that can be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u4	Mr Minister, my questions are not about the measures taken under the Di Rupo I government, but about the new measures, in particular the further reduction of benefits for young people under the age of 21 who do not have a diploma and for young people over the age of 25. My first question refers once again to a debate that we have had here for the most part. I note that the debate on minimum diploma requirements will also take place at another level, in the Flemish Government in the Flemish Parliament. I asked that question in this committee during the policy statement and also in connection with the discussions on the policy paper. At that time, Minister, you explained that the precise definition of minimum diploma requirements would be part of the social dialogue in December. From that December social consultation, the measure for persons under 21 years of age will be postponed until 1 September 2015. As far as I have heard from the media, there has been no real landing in relation to these diploma requirements and the government took the power forward and then said it was about the third degree. The research carried out by Professor Nicaise, among others, at the Center for Study and School Careers, shows that one third of the drop-out without qualification has also not obtained a diploma in primary education. It's about 2 500 kids a year. Ides Nicaise therefore calls for a change to a qualification rather than a compulsory education. Accordingly, Minister Crevits of the Flemish Government stated that serious consideration would be given to an integration allowance, even in the case of qualifications other than those mentioned at the outset. That is, of course, a good thing. I hope that I can conclude that it reflects a progressive understanding of the social dialogue that has taken place on this subject, in the light of the social pressure and the cries made by teachers, among other things, about the harshness or alienation of the measure that has been taken in this way and is strict, especially for those who come from extremely secondary education, but also in response to the questions raised by the committee. That definitely tastes like more. I was merely wondering why you did not mention earlier that a regulatory framework is indeed being imposed at federal level, but that the final implementation of these minimum diploma requirements belongs to Flanders and Wallonia. We are therefore looking forward to it. I hope that steps will be taken and that we will think more broadly of a tie-up. Despite this information, my question remains as to how this can be seen in practice. After all, the government claims that this measure should encourage young people to obtain a diploma or qualification, which in itself is a good thing. However, from the practical point of view, I am left with the question of how it will work, because it is very often about disadvantaged young people, young people who are having a very difficult time. I hope that much more can be put to work than just the question of diploma, because there is still a lot of work to be done in education itself. So I look forward to what Mrs Crevits will do. My next question concerns the number of young people involved. The measure is now due to expire on 1 September 2015 for the 21-year-olds. A few months ago, we ourselves calculated the number of young people to be taken by these two new measures and we reached 68 000 young people spread over the legislative period. That number will fall by several thousand, as the measure is rather late. When we came out with these figures, you said you wanted to wait and see the latest figures before you wanted to confirm our figures or not. That is why I have the very specific question of whether you can endorse our calculations. If not, how many young people do you think will be involved in the coming years? Do you have a better view of that? Finally, the government agreement states that if socio-economic reforms involve more people in the OMCW, the necessary budgets for the OMCW will be allocated. If more people are knocking on the door of the OCMW, that is, in my view, a sign that poverty is increasing and it is not merely a shift in the tables. Many of these young people will have to resort to the OMCW, both through the measures of Di Rupo I and through the new measures that are coming towards us, in order to still have a certain form of income. Is the necessary budget earmarked to deal with this? Let me give you an example. The Ghent OCMW has adjusted its multiannual budget because of the measures taken by Di Rupo. In Ghent, it is about a thousand young people younger than 21 every year who are outflowing unqualifiedly. Some of them will come to the OMCW. What is being proposed to strengthen the OCMWFs in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u5	Minister, my question will be simple. Maybe the answer will be just as complicated or more complicated. On 18 December, in plenary session, my colleague Raoul Hedebouw asked you a question about the exclusion of unemployment for the beneficiaries of the integration allowance. These measures have now entered into force. I estimate that between 16,000 and 32,000 people are excluded from unemployment. It's huge! What did you say to my colleague Hedebouw in plenary? You remember and we appreciated your answer. You said you wanted to do something about the social emergency. You said you wanted to avoid great social tragedies. What do we see today? That you proposed a two-month moratorium for 1,500 out of work. 1,500 people compared to the 32,000 excluded, representing 5% of the exclusions. You realize that this is far from the expectations of those defending a moratorium on these exclusions. This is all the more serious given that this measure affects the weakest, namely a series of single mothers between the ages of 30 and 40 who are hit with full whips. They will therefore end up at the CPAS with the problems that this can pose to the municipalities or for them. On the other hand, some people are not entitled to support from the CPAS. Among them, Marie-France, who bears witness in these words: "ONEM has meant the end of our integration allowance from 1 January 2015". She hasn't found a job since then. She explains to her children that after the New Year, she will have nothing, not even a penny. It will be excluded from the system in order not to meet the stipulated conditions. The unemployment rate will certainly fall, but it will not have any employment. Minister, what do you intend to do? You mentioned the avoidance of a social tragedy. How do you intend to meet this commitment?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u6	Mr President, my colleague Evita Willaerts has been interested in measures that are the responsibility of this government. Others are attributable to the previous government. The former Prime Minister saw their impact yesterday. We've been trying to explain it to him for three years, but in vain. Minister, the principle of the three-year limitation of the benefit of occupational integration allowances was decided by the previous government by a Royal Decree of 28 December 2011. It began to take effect on 1 January. The idea was to limit the allowance to three years. Beyond the iniquitous, inequitable and ineffective aspect of the measure, it is important to know how many people it will touch. It was on this point that I intended to question you. So far, we have been informed of projections of the unions and the ONEM. Now we are in the concrete. We can therefore measure precisely how many recipients have reached the end of the three-year period. I believe that this information should be forwarded to the committee. Hence my questions, which are of a statistical nature, but of major political importance. Minister, do you have precise figures on the number of people who are now affected by this loss of integration allowances and who will have to go knock on the door of the CPAS? How many women are involved? According to the ONEM's preliminary projections, more women would indeed be affected by this measure. I'm afraid so. What is the breakdown by Region? One of the arguments put forward was that it was necessary to have worked to create rights. However, we note that beneficiaries at the end of the law have worked, but insufficiently in the eyes of ONEM, particularly under interim contracts. How many of these people have worked part-time? I am thinking in particular of women who are forced to work under this regime. During the course of the year, will other people lose their allowances? Do you have up-to-date estimates? Can you also distribute them? Beyond the figures, I wanted to ask you a political question. Do you have the same remorse as the former Prime Minister or former partners of the previous majority? I am thinking in particular of cdH. Does the government wish to correct this measure, which we can strongly question the ability to insert the individuals concerned professionally? In fact, if there is to be occupational integration, employment is still to be made available.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time we have discussed this issue. It will probably not be the last time, certainly not in terms of the figures, on which I will return later. Mevrouw Willaert, Mr. Van Hees, to be clear... From 1 September 2015, for the new inflow below the age of 21, the entitlement to an integration allowance will be linked to a minimum diploma requirement. As a general rule, at least one diploma will have to be obtained from general secondary education, technical secondary education, vocational secondary education or special secondary education. In addition, there will also be the right to benefits if you have completed the training in an integral and successful manner. This additional condition applies as long as the person concerned has not reached the age of 21 years and applies to all young people applying for benefits after 1 September 2015. It is important that the new diploma requirements start from 1 September 2015. It is the explicit intention to consult before that date with the relevant Community Ministers of Education and others who can join it. I invited the Community Ministers of Education to a first working meeting on this subject. They have already indicated that they will draw up proposals in this framework which take account of the situation of these young people and particularly of young people in secondary vocational education and special secondary education. That consultation will certainly take place at the end of January. If we get out, we'll communicate very clearly about it. I repeat that this measure is intended to make it clear to young people that it is important to obtain a diploma or certificate and that this will significantly increase employment opportunities. I have explained this several times. That's the finality, the ratio legis. According to the RVA, the diploma requirement for young people under the age of 21 could have the effect that in 2015 3 140 young people do not fulfil this condition. That is, of course, very conditional. One cannot calculate that exactly. You asked me, and that is why I submitted it to the RVA. It is important to encourage young people to think and to encourage them to go to the labour market with a diploma or a certificate. That number would be at cruising speed........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The estimates have been made on the basis of a number of hypotheses, since obtaining a diploma, as I said, was not a condition for the benefit in the past. The number of young people who did meet the old conditions but did not meet the new conditions is therefore not really known. The OMCWs have an important role to play in this respect and should have the necessary tools to do so. Combating poverty is a priority task for local authorities and OMCWs. You know that. The government will continue to ensure the support of the OCMWFs. A possible increase in the number of living wage clients as a result of the new socio-economic reforms will lead, where appropriate, to discussions or additional compensation for the OMCWs. It should be stressed, inter alia, that the additional requirement for diploma requirements does not constitute a definitive withdrawal of an integration allowance. The condition shall apply as long as the person concerned has not reached the age of 21. From the age of 21 onwards, if he is still unemployed and meets all other conditions, the young person may be entitled to an early retirement allowance. Hopefully, this is an exceptional situation and most young people will already be at work and will not need an early retirement allowance. Mr Van Hees, I have understood very well, and as I said in plenary session, that the situation is delicate. I spoke with my colleague, Minister Gosuin, who is responsible in Brussels. I am very familiar with the situation and I am convinced that we must be very concerned about certain developments. What did I do? I went to the RVA pour and discusser. The ONEM, together with other institutions, has a responsibility to inform people. I've spoken with the people in charge of the ONEM. They told me that a letter would be sent to the people concerned. They've all been informed. The OCMWs have been informed. I don't feel like there's a big social problem right now, but I'm convinced that... We must continue to monitor and monitor this. I follow that very closely. We have done everything we can to inform everyone in good time about the measure which, moreover, is not ours. Mr Gilkinet is right. You are right, this is not a measure that has been taken by our government. It was approved by the government of Elio Di Rupo. You also asked for numbers. I will make the same point. It is not obvious to give exact figures. The number of persons in January 2015 was estimated at 16,900. Since this is an estimate, it has a margin of error. It is therefore not prudent to give figures for sub-categories. I hope, however, that the first figures on the actual impact of this measure will be available in February and that at that time I can also give you figures on sub-categories. On our decision on Mrs Milquet has already responded to the diploma. She asked to speak on this matter as soon as possible. As far as the royal decrees are concerned, I can only communicate definitively once they have been finally approved, which is not the case. I would like to underline the date of 1 September 2015. We therefore have some time to clarify this matter. Consultations on this matter are under way. I would just like to say that I am aware of the difficulties facing job seekers with acute or chronic, serious, medical, mental, mental or psychiatric problems. That's a specific case. A transitional measure has therefore been developed, granting an additional period of two months, giving those beneficiaries the opportunity to register in an accompanying course organized by the regional employment services in order to benefit from an extension of their entitlement to an integration allowance. This measure also gives regional employment services the opportunity to organise themselves optimally in order to cope with such influx of applications. I would like to stress once again that we are following the problem closely on the basis of figures. We will have more clarity on this in February 2015. The OCMW's and the people have been alerted. We shall therefore certainly come back to the matter, including in the Committee on Social Affairs. We can discuss the dossier further at that time, depending on the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u8	Mr President, Minister, we are very much looking forward to the consultations that will take place with the relevant ministers of the Communities. We shall therefore follow it closely. We believe that employment opportunities will increase if good consultation takes place and, apart from the general rule, further consideration is given to other ways in which young people can obtain a qualification to find a job. Nor should we forget that in today's economic times, jobs are not about to be lost. It will therefore become a benefit for some young people rather than a job until we can create more jobs. I assume that the figures you gave are about the 21-year-olds. However, there is also the group of +25-year-olds. I'm always curious about your figures on the latter group in the future. As far as the additional compensation for the OCMWFs is concerned, I have stated on several occasions that, on the one hand, it is about the part that the local government itself has to pay for the living wage. If the group of living-wage clients increases, the budget will also increase and the OCMW will have to adjust their multiannual budget. What is also often forgotten is that all young people involved are accompanied and that the OMCWs need to recruit more staff. In Ghent, for example, three extra people were recruited for those young people to take the measures of Di Rupo I. The budget of the Social Integration PPS for these dossiers I will ask this question to Minister Borsus at all is not enough to guide young people in a qualitative way towards activation, as the OCMWFs do. I'd like to give you that concern. It is not just about living wages, but also about the framework of young people, which we all believe should be given every opportunity to find the way to the labour market. I look forward to seeing that reflected in future budgets.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u9	Minister, thank you for this answer, which surprises me a little. You don't think it's a big social problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u10	I hope so!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u11	You hope. That's actually different. How can you hope that 16,900 exclusions,... if we stick to this number of the ONEM. The Forem, VDAB and Actiris have figures that are closer to those of the unions than those of the ONEM. Either, let's not discuss the number. Let us even admit this figure of 16,900 excluded. How can you hope that this is not a major social problem for those 16,900 people who are excluded from unemployment today? Some will not even be entitled to the CPAS. As we have seen, the president of the PS, former Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo, no longer sleeps and finds it awful. Minister, do you intend to wait until you are no longer in the government to be in the same situation as Mr Di Rupo?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u12	Minister, as well as your predecessors, you do not seem to be aware of the concrete consequences of these measures. The previous government has indeed decided. However, your party was in the majority. I'm telling you because you were in the Flemish government. That is, in any case, what I have observed since the opposition benches. I take note of your figures. I am surprised because the figures you sent us in December amounted to 31,000 excluded, of which two thirds were women. Today, you refer to the figure of 16,900 excluded.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u13	These are the numbers of the ONEM.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u14	It is still your political responsibility. You will have to re-examine you regularly – I have taken note of the February deadline – in order to have concrete statistics. Behind the statistics, there are cases of men and especially women who are in great distress. This government, rather than stepping up the measures – what you are going to do with the younger ones, as you explained to my colleague, Mrs Willaert – must rather undo what was done by the previous government because this measure is completely inoperative in terms of job creation. Employment must be created in a dialogue with businesses, with conditional and low-wage support. That's how we can do it. This is not the way that your government has chosen. We urge all members of this Parliament to reconsider this measure, which we will do on other occasions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u15	Mr President, I have a question about the 1.9 percent rule, which we know is very difficult to calculate. It is a rule that still dates from a law on the generation pact of 2005. The law stipulates that companies must devote 1.9 % of the wage mass to the training of employees. In practice, we see that de facto very little investment is made in the training of employees. Our employees do not receive enough training, although that rule exists. Furthermore, we see that a business sector that does not meet the 1.9 % rule risks being sanctioned. The individual companies which have complied with the 1.9 % and therefore follow the rule, but which happen to be covered by a sector which does not comply with that rule, are also sanctioned. It's a nevending story. I have been working on this file for four years, and your head of your cabinet followed up on the file with Minister Milquet at the time and knows it. I also warned at that time that this is not correct with regard to the individual companies that do comply with the rule. You can't just impose a sanction, but Milquet's cabinet knew better then. She's submitted a blacklist of companies. What did we see? Companies have effectively been fined. What does the arrest say now? The companies went to the Constitutional Court. The judgment of 23 October 2014 states that the principle of equality is indeed infringed when companies that invest sufficiently in the training of their employees are fined, while the sector of which they are part is failing. I have a very specific question, because there is a whole passage in the coalition agreement, so we will have to organise it in a different way. Will the government repay the fine for those individual companies that have complied with the rule, now that there is the judgment of the Constitutional Court? Will those individual companies who have had to pay the fine get the money back on the basis of this judgment?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u16	Mr President, I fully agree with Mrs Demir's point of view. Mr Minister, in 2011, your predecessor, Mrs Milquet, took the decision to collectively punish private sector employers whose overall training efforts did not together reach 1.9% of the total Belgian wage bill of these companies, with an additional employer contribution of 0.05% to the financing of the paid educational leave system. I also deplored this intolerable and discriminatory decision at the time, as it penalized both good and bad students. Thus, it was possible that an individual employer who made sufficient training efforts but was part of a sector that made too little effort in this area would have to pay the increased contribution, while an employer who had not made sufficient effort but belonged to a sector that provided sufficient effort would be exempt from the fine. Fortunately, the Constitutional Court recently (October 23, 2014) gave reason to this view, saying that section 30 of the 2005 Act was incompatible with the Constitution. Mr. Minister, it is clear that this widespread sector-based punishment system needs to be removed in favour of an analysis of efforts on a case-by-case basis, more in line with actual efforts. How do you intend to apply this royal decree? As for the percentage to be reached, i.e. 1.9%, this figure seems enormous to me in view of the current crisis. Couldn't we consider seeing him down again?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u17	A number of companies went to the Council of State, not to the Constitutional Court. However, by judgment of 23 October 2014, the Constitutional Court stated that there was a breach of Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution to the extent that the financial sanction mechanism established also applies to the employer who belongs to a sector where there is no collective agreement on additional training efforts and who has individually made sufficient training efforts. Since the legal basis of the Royal Decree of 11 October 2007 has been declared unconstitutional, the said Royal Decree also loses its legal basis, so that a change in the system of succession of sectoral training efforts will be required. So far it is clear and everyone agrees. The judgment is the result of a question referred by the Council of State for a preliminary ruling in an action brought against the Ministerial Decree that lists those sectors which have not made sufficient training efforts. The decision of the Constitutional Court has recently been transmitted to the Council of State so that it can take this into account in the case before it. The judgment has therefore been delivered to the Council of State by the Constitutional Court, so that the Council of State can now process it. No judgment is expected immediately, because the parties to the dispute will still have the opportunity to argue. The auditor's supplementary report will also follow. The different parties have the possibility of responding. The hearing officer will also examine this issue. The Council of State will then issue a judgment. It is therefore still too early to understand the possible repayment obligation to the undertakings concerned and its potential scope. The repayment of the sums paid in would therefore be very expeditious and not legally justified. The judgment of the Council of State must first give a definitive ruling on this matter. An expert working group has been set up, which also looks at sectoral training efforts in the context of lifelong learning. I hope that report won't be long. U hebt gevraagd what we were going to do with the conclusions. For the formulation of conclusions, therefore, I think we should also wait for the results of the group of experts. Mrs Demir, you referred to the coalition agreement. I have the text with me, so I can read it again with a soft voice. I see you have the coalition agreement with you yourself. Resumed, the judgment of the Constitutional Court is clear. It is concerned at the Council of State, where the parties still have the opportunity to respond, as is the hearing officer. In the meantime, so to speak, everything is frozen and I certainly cannot go back on the fine. A group of experts are currently working on this. The government agreement clearly states: "In this context, the existing training objective will be modernised in order to achieve an effective and enforceable increase in the training effort, for example through the formulation of a new objective to stimulate training in enterprises, with a shared and enforceable responsibility of employees and employers. To this end, it will be examined whether the training effort can be integrated into a career account for each employee." I hope that I have clarified the legal situation and the content of the various phases.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u18	Thank you for clarifying the legal situation. We will wait and see what the Council of State is doing, but it seems clear to me what direction the Council of State will take, given the judgment of the Constitutional Court. I believe, and you probably do, that the fine that individual companies have wrongly received should be corrected. You say it is premature now, but you have the judgment of the Constitutional Court. I cannot imagine that the Council of State would take a completely different view. From a legal point of view, it can only be that the individual companies which have effectively followed the rule but were wrongly penalised by Milquet's ridiculous measure simply get their money back.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u19	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his technical answers. As far as the future is concerned, I believe that you will have to be smarter – excuse me for the word – than your predecessor, who, despite all the information she had, did not want to take our point of view into account and ran his head against the wall on his own. So be careful how you draft the next royal decree. People who make efforts should not be punished. Maybe we should even reward those who make it. You will then show more intelligence than your predecessor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u20	I assume that the well-educated lawyers agree with me when I say that we must wait for the Council of State's ruling. I can't act sooner. I don't have to defend Mrs Milquet. She'll do it herself, if that's what it takes. Of course, it's up to the social partners...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u21	That's not always better.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u22	There is at least a shared responsibility, (Protests by Mrs Demir) In any case, we will be drafting the new decision this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u23	Since Parliament has the last word, Mr President, I would like to say the following very briefly. Minister, you note that the social partners are not always right. We must be careful with the advice of the social partners. It is true that we have to wait for the judgment of the Council of State, but I would advise you to be ready. The fine will in any case have to be paid back to those companies which have indeed followed the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u24	Mr President, I do not want to argue, but the social partners were not unanimous as to how this collective punishment would be applied. It should not be said that Ms. Milquet has no responsibility for this decision. She has to shoulder her responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u25	We are looking to the future in 2015, with the Deputy Prime Minister, and we even have new questions from Mrs Lanjri and Mr Lachaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u26	Minister, you know that, in the context of the free movement of workers in Europe, every citizen of the European Union is free to stay in another Member State, including our country, for more than three months, provided that one is an employee, self-employed or seeking employment. In the latter case, one must of course prove that one is looking for work or that the opportunity is real to be appointed. The Minister or the authorities under his authority always have the possibility of verifying compliance with the conditions for the exercise of the right of residence. For example, an EU citizen who is in a state of involuntary unemployment, after, for example, a temporary employment contract of less than one year, or who has become involuntaryly unemployed in the first 12 months and registered with the RVA, retains the status of employee for at least six months. After these six months, the Foreign Affairs Office can check whether the person concerned still has a real chance of employment. If this is not the case, the European may be ordered to leave the territory. In the previous legislature, the College of Attorneys-General indicated that this scheme, this European possibility, could be a possible source of abuse, because after one day's work in Belgium you can apply for unemployment benefit. However, the European Commission states that one day's work is not sufficient to be entitled to unemployment benefit. There must be some kind of reasonableness. Only those who have worked for a long time in another EU Member State as an employed person and who come immediately to Belgium and can prove work in a period of time should be entitled to unemployment benefit. In May 2013, the authorisation was granted to exchange data between the DVZ and the RVA. It was intended that I interviewed the previous Minister of Work on this issue to automatically systematise the data exchange from spring 2014. That was during the election period. In June 2013, DVZ's first databases were also provided, from which files were selected. At that time, however, the comparison still happened manually. They looked at whether some people were eligible and whether they were able to show that they had a sufficient chance of getting a job. If that was not the case, the DVZ could decide to withdraw the residence permit. I have the following questions, Minister. How many days of employment does an EU citizen have to prove in practice abroad, and how many days in Belgium, to get access to unemployment benefit? I know that there are differences, depending on age, but normally, if one has to perform for example 300 days, the periods completed in another European Member State are included. However, the previous Minister for Employment has stated that the right to unemployment benefit can only be opened in Belgium if the right to unemployment benefit exists in the country of origin. Is that right? I doubt that, and I will make that clear with an example. Suppose a person who has worked in another Member State, for example in Spain, and suppose that the entitlement to unemployment benefit has expired in that country, because unemployment benefit is limited there in time. If this Spaniard comes to Belgium, in view of the loss of unemployment benefit or because the unemployment benefit has already been effectively dropped, can he add the days worked in Spain to the necessary days worked in Belgium, in order to arrive at the necessary period in Belgium? Is it being checked whether the person concerned was still entitled to a benefit in Spain? Does the right to unemployment benefit lapse here because he was no longer entitled to it in Spain, because of its limitation over time? I doubt the latter, because it does not seem to me to be in line with the principle of non-discrimination. In this case, Europeans living here would be treated less favourably than the Belgians. Either the previous minister had it wrong in her answer, or my analysis is wrong, but I do not think it fits with the principle of non-discrimination. How many EU nationals who recently came to our country in the context of free movement are entitled to unemployment benefits? I would have liked to have gotten the most recent figures, if it could have been from 2013 or 2014. How many of those entitled have become unemployed within 12 months? How many of these unemployed EU citizens were eventually ordered by DVZ to leave the territory, because after an investigation by DVZ it was found that they no longer met the conditions for legally staying in Belgium, because they could no longer prove that they had a real chance of employment? How many EU citizens were refused unemployment benefits? How many EU citizens have stopped unemployment benefits? To what extent did the systematic data exchange between DVZ and the RVA, which was promised before spring 2014, already start? Are there any results yet? Will you take further measures to deal with the abuses yourself? I cannot ask you not to comply with European rules, nor do I wish to. We will respect these rules, but we still have the opportunity, including European rules, to expel people who do not have a view of work, or to tell them to provide their own livelihoods. What possible measures will you take to remove the abuses and to better detect such cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u27	Mr President, at the plenary session on 13 November, I had already asked the Minister a question. The reason was then the Dano judgment and I asked about its impact on unemployment benefits. Dano, however, was concerned with social assistance. I'd like to take a quick look at what my colleague Lanjri has said. You then told me in your reply, Minister, that in Belgium, some 600 applications for unemployment benefit are made every month by EU citizens at the RVA. Foreign periods are charged for these benefits. You said that this was a limited problem, but given the number, this is not so limited. The question is also what exactly happens to these applications. How many are ultimately entitled to benefits? I'll come to my questions. Can you give me more information on the nationality of these applicants? This is relevant because building rights in periods abroad in a context of equal socio-economic conditions and with a comparable standard of living is less of a problem in itself. At that point, it is simply about the exchange of rights between Member States within the EU. In new Member States, the standard of living is often even lower and the building up of rights presupposes that social contributions are paid much lower. In this context, moving to a country where prosperity is higher is a form of benefit tourism. Are they often citizens from EU countries where the standard of living and benefits are significantly lower than in Belgium? Are they regions with high unemployment rates? Can you specify this by country? You mentioned the applications, but it is important to know how many are actually receiving benefits. Do you have any figures on that? Are there any trends in the number of applicants and recipients of unemployment benefits based on foreign employment compared to previous years? Is a thorough check carried out on these applications as to the cause of unemployment and availability for the Belgian labour market? This is in line with what Mr Lanjri has just asked. Are there any abuses in the system? Do you foresee specific measures in this area? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with the figures. I mentioned the figure of 600 per month in the actual question put by Mr Lachaert in plenary. You must not multiply that by twelve, of course. That's a little short. Mr Lanjri is also asking for figures. The problem is, of course, that we need to go through all this manually and get the data from the 30 RVA offices. I have also submitted this in response to your question, but I have been told that I cannot be given that information for the time being. It is also necessary to consider how much manpower should be used to obtain all this data. I will look at it again, but at the end of the year the RVA also had more than enough hands, including the application of a number of new royal decrees. In reply to this question in plenary, I understood that there are a large number of Dutch people among those 600. When talking about abuse, people may think it is about other nationalities. A large part of that number is filled in by Dutch. Anyway, if you insist, I will ask you again to get the figures. However, I hope you will understand that it is not possible to get that out of the computer. We need to look at that file on a case-by-case basis, and that takes some time. That is why I am sorry to say that I cannot answer the pertinent questions about the figures at the moment. Secondly, it is a very technical fact, and one has to be careful not to send any misunderstandings into the world. I can also give you my preparation later, so that you can read it. Hopefully, then, a number of uncertainties will be eliminated. In order to qualify for unemployment benefit in Belgium, any unemployed person, regardless of his nationality, must fulfil three conditions. First, he must provide proof of the number of paid employment days and, second, this must be done during a certain reference period immediately prior to the claim for benefit. Thirdly, in order to be able to benefit from unemployment benefit, he must be independent of his will and without wages because of circumstances. An EU national may allow the days performed in any EU country to be taken into account. It must be a period of employment or an equivalent period which, if it had been completed in Belgium, would count towards the opening up of the right to unemployment benefit. Periods of self-employment therefore, for example, do not count as a valid period of employment. Another condition is that there was a period of employment in Belgium immediately before the benefit application, although it is sufficient that it should be possible to decide whether or not full-time employment is involved. I am not aware of the statements made by the previous Minister of Work. My predecessor's reply probably fits in with the EU's exports of unemployment benefits. An EU national may take his or her entitlement to unemployment benefit in his or her country for a number of months to another EU country where he or she is going to seek work. If I am unemployed in country A and go to country B in the European Union, then I can take my entitlement to unemployment benefit with me to that other country, as long as, of course, in the country from which I left, unemployment benefit is granted. In this system, of course, the rule is that one can only export one's right to another country as one has the right. In the case of unemployment benefits of limited duration in the country from which they left, this limited duration will continue to apply in the country to which they are going to seek employment. This scheme is based on a European regulation and reimbursement rules have been laid down between Member States. If he comes here, we'll pay and we'll recover it in the country he comes from. The period during which he can receive that benefit is the same as the period in the country from which he left. I hope it is clear now, didactically sound and legally correct. I have already replied to the question on the figures requested. Mr Lachaert, I come to your questions on control and abuse. The verification of the claim for benefits is the same for all applicants, whether they are Belgian or EU citizens or not. The RVA carries out several control tasks. For the unemployed from abroad, the RVA also controls not only the employment benefits and periods of insurance claimed, but also the cause of unemployment. Whose dismissal is the result of his own fault or who has left an appropriate employment for no legal reason may be excluded from the right to unemployment benefit. In addition, regional employment services control active and passive availability for the general labour market. The RVA is constantly on guard against abuse. Firstly, for the use of documents which are not authentic. When there is doubt about the authenticity of the document, the RVA makes enquiries at the foreign institution. The RVA also acts preventively. The information provided by the RSZ on the fictitious submission of benefits by certain employers allows the RVA to be stored on its own database in order to prevent employees from applying for fraudulent unemployment claims from the employers mentioned by the RSZ. In this context, not only is there close cooperation with the RSZ, but also with the Social Intelligence and Investigation Service. In addition to the loss of the right to benefits and the reimbursement of benefits unduly received, both the fraud-making unemployed and any employers involved may be sanctioned administratively or criminally. The Social Criminal Code provides for the highest level of sanctions, a level 4 sanction, for anyone who uses false documents or is guilty of fraud in social criminal law, but you know that. Abuse is well detected and the legal framework for their punishment is sufficient. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that I have shed some light where some confusion has arisen. I will insist once again on the figures, but I do not think that the figure of 600 here should be multiplied by twelve. That seems to me to be being taken too short. It is, of course, an important number. I do not want to minimize that, as I said in plenary. According to my information, it is about people from our neighbouring countries, to mention the Netherlands explicitly once again. To my mind, there is not really a serious problem of abuse, but I speak in two words and I will ask for the figures. I hope you understand that the figures cannot yet be provided, given the male or female strength that is supposed to be collected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Of course, I understand that you can only communicate what you know. If you do not have any data yet and we have to wait a little longer for it, then we will also wait a little longer for it. However, it was not entirely clear to me whether what was promised, in particular the systematic exchange of data between DVZ and the RVA, is currently also in progress. You didn't answer that. Hasn't that started yet, though it was promised?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u30	According to my information, that's not happening yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u31	That was agreed. I therefore ask you to make sure that this is done. You also confirmed what the previous minister said. The right to unemployment benefit can be taken to another country, that is obvious, but if the right to unemployment benefit is limited in another country, as is the case for example for the Dutch, we can no longer provide them with unemployment benefit after a while. I've never heard that before. Anyone who, for example, has stamped a year in the Netherlands and worked in Belgium for a few months would be here, because there is a limit in the Netherlands to two years, I say what else might be an unemployment benefit for a year; then the person concerned would be removed from the benefit list. That still seems discriminatory to me. However, if Europe allows it, then it may not be discrimination. However, I have never heard that. For example, how many Europeans, including the Dutch, have we removed from unemployment after a time because they were no longer eligible for unemployment compensation under the rules of their country?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u32	I may not have explained it that clearly. To quote your example: a Dutchman who is unemployed in the Netherlands and comes to Belgium to look for work here is still unemployed. We can pay that unemployment allowance, but of course within the period provided for by the Netherlands. That is the first case. An unemployed person who comes here to look for work and still doesn't have a job can receive unemployment benefits here for the duration determined by the Netherlands. There's a second possibility. A Dutchman comes here, finds work and works a few days. He will, of course, be covered by the Belgian unemployment benefit scheme. Then there's no time limit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u33	In other words, once he's worked here for a day...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u34	A few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u35	If he leaves the Netherlands just in time because there is a limitation and he comes here to work for a few days, then he is sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u36	You say it a little harshly, but if he is eligible for unemployment benefit under Belgian law, that will be unlimited in time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u37	Since we count everything, including the period in the country of origin, everything counts. Now I get it. In that case, we will not receive any refund from the Netherlands if we continue to pay after that period.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u38	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u39	We can get the benefit back for that period but not after that period.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u40	That is also the European rule. If we go to the Netherlands or elsewhere, we will find ourselves in such a situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u41	I understand. I think it makes sense, but I thought something else was suggested. I believe, Minister, that we should look at this matter again. Without touching on the European rules, which are indeed reciprocal, we must look at them carefully and detect the abuses. If there are abuses, I am thinking of people who do not find a job or who do not have a view of work, then they can be dealt with and asked to leave the country. That is also stated in the directive. I have no problem with people who do work or have a view of work. We can certainly continue to provide them with benefits here, but we can send back those who do not have sufficient effort or a view of employment. That has already happened in the past. For example, Italians have already been sent back. I think that's how we get the abuse out. I have no problem with the fact that those who do not abuse have the right, like the Belgians, to unemployment benefit, which is unlimited in time, Mrs Demir.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The figures are not available. That way, it's hard to argue. We may have the impression that the problem is not that big, but we are not really sure. I will therefore perhaps put a written question to you in the near future. The discussion with Mr Lanjri was interesting. We need to divide the different categories well, get the right figures from the RVA and give them the necessary time so that we can quantify whether or not it is a problem that needs to be addressed further.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u43	Thank you for the fascinating conversation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u44	Minister, you are aware of the problem of the employment of foreigners, especially those from non-EU countries. A month ago, the OECD referred once again to Belgium's poor position. Belgium scores very badly in terms of employment of those people. It is even dramatic, because we are in the back of the peloton, together with Greece, Turkey and Spain. I don't think this is a compliment. This problem has existed for a long time. We all know that it is a complex problem. It has several causes. I think it's a shared responsibility of the federal government and the regional government. Minister, are you planning specific measures under your federal authority to solve the problem a little bit? Will you sit with your colleagues from the regional governments in order to arrive at a comprehensive approach to the problem? If you want to obtain a higher employment rate, you should put that group which is not currently working to work as a priority. This is a task for both the federal and Flemish governments. Are you planning consultations on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Demir, the OECD story is not new. In 2013, the Employment Office, together with the Centre for Equality of Opportunities and the fight against Racism, published the first report on socio-economic monitoring. It contained a very detailed analysis of the labour market in our country in terms of origin. The report also immediately indicates that the causes of the very poor position of people of foreign origin in our country are very diverse, which is also repeated by the OECD. The report will be updated in the course of 2015. As far as my powers are concerned, particularly in my capacity as Minister of Labour, I am convinced that, first of all, greater accessibility and better functioning of our labour market in general will benefit the position of people of foreign origin. This includes the importance of all the measures that the current government intends to take in this area, ranging from the reduction of wage burdens to the modernisation of labour law and the effective use of resources for the risk groups. However, as you rightly point out, the problem goes far beyond my powers. I therefore intend to do what you have suggested, namely, together with the relevant Secretary of State for Migration and Equal Opportunities, to initiate consultations on the issue with the regional and community ministers responsible for Education, Employment and Equal Opportunities. I will take that initiative together with my fellow Members at the right time. You may insist on taking it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u46	Mr President, Minister, that is very good.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u47	Mr Minister, my question concerns the 2014 wage gap report of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. That report draws attention to the fact that in 2011 the average hourly wage of a woman was 10% lower than that of a man. This means a status quo compared to the year before, and it is of course a pity that no progress has been made. Meanwhile, a law has entered into force to combat the gender pay gap. This law aims to provide a number of guarantees for the attention to be paid to equal pay for men and women. Of course, these guarantees are intended to have some impact. For example, negotiations are required at interprofessional level and consultation in companies must also be organised. At sector level, collective agreements should make the job and classification scales gender neutral. This means, in concrete terms, that a woman should not be less appreciated because the work is carried out by a woman. Both the profession of cleaning woman and truck driver is heavy. Cleaning is usually done by women and the occupation of truck driver usually by men, but the men get a higher reward. This example is completely fictional, but it indicates the importance of gender neutrality in the function and classification systems. The law lays down time limits at sector level to deliver the collective agreements to the department analysis and evaluation of collective agreements at the FOD WASO. The deadline for submission shall be 18 months for the existing agreements and 17 months for the agreements entered into after the entry into force of the law. Mr Minister, how many job rating and classification scales have already entered the FOD WASO today? How many advices have been given and in what direction? That is also what I am asking for for the documents that arrived later than the planned seventeen months, assuming they are there. Were the opinions given within the specified six-month period? How many documents are we talking about? In which direction do these opinions go? Was the work carried out securely or did no progress have been made since the legislation came into force? Another element of the legislation stipulates that the social balance should split the wage data between men and women in order to also assess the impact of the wage gap law. The fact that the pay gap becomes visible in the social balance also sensitises people to do something about it. The law also prescribes certain consultation procedures. To what extent do we see that laws such as the wage gap law that we have adopted here have any impact?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u48	For the job classifications already in place on the date of entry into force of the Law of 22 April 2012 on combating the gender pay gap, the FOD WASO has a period of 18 months to exercise control. In view of the entry into force of the Act on 1 July 2013, this deadline expired on 31 December 2014. These are about 140 files. A large number do not meet the required gender neutrality of the job titles. The submitted job classifications at the Registry of the FOD WASO after 1 July 2013 also had to be verified before 31 December 2014 if they were submitted before 31 November 2014. These are about 80 files. The FOD WASO has advocated an extension of the audit period by three months. I will shortly submit a bill to the government to obtain it. For the development of a measuring instrument that can determine the gender-neutral nature of a job classification, the FOD WASO has called on external specialists. The budgetary blocking of the resources of the FPS has delayed the control procedure. In order to ensure quality control, the government will submit a draft law to extend the audit periods until 30 April 2015. A six-month check period for the job classifications submitted after 30 November 2014 remains unchanged. The deadline of 17 months expired on 31 November 2014. It is therefore impossible to answer your question at this stage. The measures to combat the gender pay gap provided for in the Law of 22 April 2012 also addressed the issue of social dialogue at company level. You've already referred to it. On the one hand, the social balance was adjusted by different headings, which make a division according to the sex of the worker. On the other hand, there is an analysis report on the remuneration structure of employees for internal use. The works council shall be responsible for receiving the report which the employer shall draw up every two years. The aim is to assess whether remuneration policy is gender-neutral at company level. I'll come to one last element. The social balance and the analysis report of the pay structure are therefore internal business documents, which should allow consultation on the pay gap between employers and employees to be initiated. I hope that information has given you an answer to your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u49	(...) the opinions are negative. This is a confirmation of what the Institute's wage gap report says, namely that little progress is being made on the subject. The report therefore calls for vigilance in the evaluation of opinions. The law is complied with, but then the sectors must also be informed about what needs to be done. I hope that this follow-up will also be effective, otherwise the legislation will not make any sense. The Committee may have fulfilled its obligations, but without a satisfactory answer, the law makes no sense. I hope that there will be good advice from the FOD WASO, so that one of the greatest injustices raised by many women's movements every year can also be eliminated. Equal pay for equal work may seem so obvious, but it is still nonexistent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u50	Mr President, the opinions are supposed to be good and something is going to happen to them. I have said that a large number of these 140 opinions were not satisfactory, but they are also positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u51	Mr President, Minister, the government agreement talks about the introduction of a career account. It defines it as an account to enable employees to accumulate time and/or a wage. This time or salary can then be used to temporarily interrupt the career, to bridge the transition between two jobs, as a possible supplement to their unemployment benefit or to supplement their statutory pension. This savings account can integrate time credits, career breaks and all similar schemes. There is therefore a clear intention, but furthermore it remains a very vague concept that hardly indicates what such a career account will entail in concrete terms. I had three questions about this. Firstly, you set out the intention to include time credit in this system, but I assume that you agree with me that motivated time credit in this case is a right for everyone and that the career account will not replace the system. In other words, the right to time credit will not be made dependent on overtime or spared holidays. After all, I do not think it would be desirable to have to double work for a few years before one can start a child and have the right to take up time credits for that. Or suppose one wants to take care of a sick person, but one cannot do so anymore because one has not yet built up enough overtime for this. That's my first question. Secondly, can you say a little more about the practical implementation of the career account? Which way is it going? Thirdly, we believe that a career account could be an interesting instrument depending on its implementation, and that is very important. However, I am somewhat concerned about a possible gender aspect, or something for which we will have to be very attentive. A holiday savings scheme rewards those who can make a lot of overtime, but not those who take a lot of care. I would not want this to become a system especially for men who can pay off their early retirement. Your colleague Mr Sleurs recently confirmed to me that the government will take gender into account in every aspect of policy. How are you going to prevent a possible imbalance between men and women?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Willaert, you are trying to hunt me down by asking me why this career account has not yet been realized. However, we still have a few years to implement the entire coalition agreement. It is not a new debate either, but this government has the ambition to introduce the career account that enables employees to accumulate time and/or pay. The concept of career account has not yet been defined. There are several possibilities in this respect. Discussions on this subject still need to be started. It is therefore too early to make any statements about this. There will be consultations with the social partners in this dossier. They have already thought about a system of individual career accounts in the past. I can refer, for example, to Opinion No. 1862 of 16 July 2013 of the National Labour Council and to the hearing held on 4 June 2013 in the Social Affairs Committee, on the concept of career account and its implications for career planning, on the different types of leave and on the balance between work and private life. So there is a lot of material on this, but it is good that you should remind me of that. We will pay due attention to the gender dimension. Women cannot be the victims of this new system.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u53	Mr Minister, I was particularly curious, rather than rushing you on that. I think it is important to do this very well and to take the necessary time. I wanted to express some concerns on our part and I am pleased that we share the same view on the gender aspect. However, certain consequences of certain choices can be hidden in a small corner. I will continue to follow this theme.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u54	Debates of the European Parliament The text of Mrs Willaert's 590 is hereby withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u55	Debates of the European Parliament 591 by Mrs Willaert is also withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u56	Mr President, Minister, the government agreement states that motivated time credits, career breaks and thematic leave are fully equal to the last wage earned. The equivalence for unmotivated time credit and career break is abolished. On the other hand, equivalence and the right to the justified time-credit is extended by 12 months if it is taken up to take care of his child up to the age of eight, to provide palliative care or to assist or care for a severely ill or disabled family member. I have a few questions for you on this. It is an extension that everyone can enjoy. Does this mean that people who have used up their time credits in the past, both motivated and possibly unmotivated, are entitled to that additional year anyway, insofar as they meet the criteria, so when they ask for an additional year for one of the motives? Are the general provisions also applicable to career breaks in general for civil servants and more specifically for persons working in education? At present they still have the opportunity to take five full-time years for their 55th anniversary and five more part-time career breaks. What possible impact of the reforms of the government agreement is there for other preferential systems in the time-credit and career break?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I may take a short run. The government is committed to maintaining the existing thematic leave, the motivated time credit and career break. The right to motivated time-credit and career break will be extended by a maximum of 12 months, as you said, if the employee takes care of his child up to the age of eight years, for the provision of palliative care or for the provision of assistance or care of a severely ill family or family member. In the case of previous reasons, entitlement to an interruption allowance shall be increased from 36 months to 48 months. For the time-credit or the career break with training as motive, the current 36-month loan will be retained. The additional 12 months cannot therefore be included for motivation training. Persons who have been admitted for more than 36, 46 or 48 months shall not be entitled to an additional period of 12 months. The aim of the career break is to harmonise with the time-credit. The draft Royal Decree, which will shortly be submitted to the A Committee, provides for a right to 36 to 48 months' full-time career break and a right to 36 to 48 months' part-time career break in accordance with the same principles as for the time-credit. As regards the regions and the Communities, and therefore education, they are themselves responsible for the career break of their staff, but until they have developed their own system, they will continue to follow the federal system.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u58	Minister, the Royal Decree of 29 October 1997 on the introduction of a right to parental leave in the context of career interruption was amended by six royal decrees, the last of which was dated 31 May 2012. Each worker has the right to take parental leave to care for his or her child under the age of 12. In order to do so, he may benefit from one of the different forms of parental leave - full-time, half-time or a fifth time - over more or less long periods. In principle, during parental leave, the worker is entitled to an interruption allowance from the National Employment Office. Moreover, this advantage cannot be obtained in the event of an employed or self-employed activity, the accumulation of which is prohibited with the interruption allowances. In October 2013, my colleague Valérie Caverenne asked your predecessor, Mrs De Coninck, about this. The latter had indicated that it found this restriction penalizing courageous and voluntary persons who, in order to supplement their paid work, had settled as self-employed persons. Ms De Coninck had then indicated in her reply that her services were preparing a draft royal decree providing for the cumulation of an ancillary self-employment with a partial allowance under parental leave. It had specified that, in the draft royal decree, such accumulation with a partial allowance was provided for a maximum period of 12 months, provided that the self-employed activity had been carried out for at least 12 months before the interruption, a condition designed to avoid the risk of abuse. Minister, can you tell me if this royal decree has been issued? If so, can you tell me if it is in the government's intention to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u59	Mr. Clarinval, I have good news. My services have prepared a draft royal decree which provides for the accumulation of an ancillary self-employment with a partial allowance under parental leave. In this draft royal decree, this accumulation with partial allowance is provided for provided that the independent activity was carried out for at least 12 months before the interruption. This draft has yet to be submitted to the Council of Ministers. We hope that this will be a mere formality. The latter condition is intended to avoid the risk of abuse. Parental leave is intended to improve the relationship between working time and leisure time. In this context, it is important that parental leave be used for the care of the child and not for the purpose of self-employment or expansion of such an activity which has recently begun. I hope that this is a good measure and that we can implement it after it has been approved by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u60	Minister, that is indeed very good news. Benchmarks should also be set in order to avoid possible abuses. You can count on the support of the MR Group in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u61	Mrs Smaers is not present for her question No. 669. I look around very carefully. She's not here. Her question will be converted into a written question. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, the mandate or power of attorney states that the question shall be converted into a written question. Now there's an interplay on the agenda. Interpreting can take longer. It is an interplay of Mr Gilkinet on the consequences for the Tandem plan or the Tandem plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u62	Mr. Chair, Minister, I have chosen the path of an inquiry to try to explain the problem to you precisely if you do not know it. It is a de facto French-speaking system but could exist in Flanders. For budgetary reasons, the government has decided to raise the age of access to end-of-care credit to 60 years. This decision is likely to have a very serious impact on all workers but particularly – and this is the subject of my inquiry – on an end-of-career arrangement that has existed in Wallonia and the Wallonia-Brussels Federation since 2003, which is working very well and which is called the Tandem Plan. This plan was the subject of a collective agreement of the Joint Sub-Committee of Educational and Housing Institutions of the French Community, the Walloon Region and the German-speaking Community, as well as a collective agreement on the creation of a life security fund called the Old Timer Social Fund. Sectors covered by the Tandem Plan are, more specifically, services for persons with disabilities in the Reception and Housing sector of the Walloon Region, the Youth Assistance sector and specialized early childhood support services and the reception centre for adults in difficulty. To sum up, it is assistance to people, which is a very important mission but has a psychological and sometimes heavy physical burden. The principle is that a worker over 50 years of age, who has been employed for at least 20 years, who has been employed by the institution for at least 5 years and has been employed in a three-quarter-time scheme for at least 12 months at the time of application, may spend half-time and receive until retirement half of his salary, the time-credit allowance paid by the ONEM under the end-of-career credit, the allowance paid from the Sector Life Security Fund, while maintaining full social coverage, in particular for the calculation of his pension. At the same time – and this is important in terms of job creation, the fight against youth unemployment – a young worker is engaged in proportion to the working time reduced by the older worker and can thus benefit from initial work experience and education by the older worker. Overall, the operation is budget neutral thanks, on the one hand, to the wage gap between the beginning and end-of-career salaries and, on the other hand, to the social security economy achieved by the activation of a job seeker who leaves his status as a compensated job seeker. To give precise figures, at present 3,444 people (half of workers over 50 years of age and half of young people) benefit from this measure in the sectors concerned, which can objectively be regarded as heavy sectors in terms of psychological or physical burden or in terms of atypical hours (cut or night). This explains why more than 90% of the older workers involved enter the system before the age of 60, hence the problem. De facto, the federal government's decision could undermine a functioning system and increase further difficulties. One problem leads to another: absenteeism, the number of sick workers. This was the case with the first tightening of access to time credits or access to pensions. There is a shift from the pension budget to the sickness-disability budget. Moreover, this is a possibility for young workers to be included in the labour market, which would be eliminated. I am sure that the government has not measured the effect of this measure on the Tandem plan. That's why I'm asking you. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u63	We've already discussed it, but I'm still not convinced. Perhaps you could re-explain to us what justifies this decision to raise the age of access to the end-of-career credit-time again. Have all the consequences of this decision been considered? My impression is that I don't. Have there been or are there any planned consultations with the federated entities on the impact of this decision on the sectors dependent on it, in particular the sectors of personal assistance, regardless of the Community concerned, in particular for the French-speaking Tandem Plan? Is there an exception scheme for heavy-duty occupational sectors or in the case of compensatory employment, such as the mechanism set up under the Tandem Plan? Time credit is often presented as a cost, but once there is a sharing of working time, it is also an economy for social security. Could such exceptions be considered? More generally, it is our conviction, and it is also the purpose of the priority bill that we would like the Social Affairs Committee to study: rather than restricting access to time credit, would it not be appropriate to consider the generalisation of this Tandem plan to all economic sectors with the aim of improving the career and promoting the integration of young workers into the labour market? I'll give you the floor, but it's an inquiry and I'm entitled to a little more time. I think the point here is that it's not a theoretical idea, it's a concept that ecologists are able to produce sometimes. Sometimes we can surprise and innovate socially, and we are proud of it. The concept was tested. It's working. All stakeholders in the area of assistance to Francophones, be it the organizing authorities, the workers represented by the unions or the beneficiaries, are very satisfied with this system. They reacted strongly to the idea that it could no longer work. I think there is really an opportunity to study, which would allow us to break the logic of sanctioning workers that are proposed by the government in various matters. We have already detailed this in the context of the discussion of your policy note. I am quite confident, minister, in your ability to listen and adjust following this inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gilkinet. I know that you are a strong supporter of the Tandem Plan: you have already asked questions several times to get information about it. First of all, I would like to point out that the previous government has already changed the conditions for access to the end-of-career credit: the age of access to this scheme has increased from 50 to 55 years and the required career duration has increased from 20 to 25 years. You know that. These amendments were made by Royal Decree of 25 August 2012 and by Collective Labour Agreement No.103 of 27 June 2012 and entered into force on 1 September 2012. The further increase in the age of access to end-of-career credit, decided by the government agreement, is justified by the overall desire to keep workers longer at work. Secondly, consultations on a range of topics have already taken place with the federated entities. The most important thing is that the Tandem Plan was concluded in the Joint Sub-Committee 399.02. The exception measures contained therein are therefore binding only on the social partners which form part of them. The continuation of this plan will always be possible as a replacement for part-time credits for workers over 60 years of age or voluntary reductions in working time for workers in the sector. For certain categories, such as workers with a 35-year-old career or a heavy occupation, the minimum age may remain 55 years, if the social partners conclude a framework agreement. This decision was taken at the end of 2014. As you point out, the Tandem Plan currently exists only in Wallonia and the French Community. It is absolutely not within my competence to consider the generalization of the Tandem Plan to all economic sectors. Such a decision falls within the competence of the ministers of the federated entities. In the past, I have already said that I found the Tandem plan very interesting. An important element may be the cost of this measure. The discussion with the social partners in the Joint Sub-Committee was instructive. I hope that the elements I have provided will allow us to discuss with the ministers of the federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u65	Minister, I am disappointed by your answer. I had the weakness to believe that you would have shown more listening, but I'll come back to the charge. Of course, you had an open attitude. Nevertheless, you refuse to consider certain elements. First of all, this is the question of cost. Your firm should examine how this measure has worked in force in the French Community since 2003. It is not expensive if the scale differs according to the age of the worker, in particular when it enables the activation of a young person who previously received unemployment benefits. Ultimately, this system allows more people to work. Some older workers who, in other circumstances, would fall ill or take an early pension, thus remain longer active – moreover, with more pleasure. In addition, they serve as a guardian and guide to the young worker. This is the first aspect of the system that you do not understand. Secondly, with regard to extending the scheme to all economic sectors, I do not think that time credit is a matter of social security – as is unemployment benefits – and that the Minister for Pensions is talking about part-time retirement, that this is not a matter for the federal government and that it would therefore be the exclusive responsibility of regional entities. That is why we drafted the bill. It is, of course, innovative, but above all it allows us to open up other perspectives than the ideas put forward by your government. This corresponds to a real concern expressed in particular by the report of the Pension Reform Commission. In other words, how can people stay active longer? They must be helped to adapt their careers to their physical abilities. You say that the collective agreement, within the framework of Joint Sub-Committee 399.02, can continue to operate. The difficulty, on the one hand, is that the age of 55 – and before the age of 50 – is now 60 and that there is a difficulty: 90% of older workers ask to have access to the Tandem plan before the age of 60; on the other hand, lowering the limit to 55 is dependent on an agreement by the social partners on the definition of heavy trades. However, this agreement has been sought for many years through social dialogue. It is a perspective that is both interesting and difficult to achieve. Under the exceptions already set by the government – and too rare compared to this age of 60 for access to end-of-career credit – one could have considered recognizing sectors of assistance to people as automatically allowing access to the system at age 55. You say that there have been consultations with the federated entities on the subject. It may be necessary to ask the ministers in charge of these matters at the level of the Walloon Region and the French Community, what fellow Members of the Green House will be able to do, but perhaps they will then misrepresent the interests of your sector. There is a great deal of concern among the workers today about the future of the Tandem Plan, which is why I decided to question you in an attempt to raise your awareness of this issue. I hope that dialogue and reflection can continue. I am personally at your disposal to try to explain things even better, if I did it wrong here in session. I am tabling a motion for a recommendation to allow you to reconsider these decisions to restrict access to end-of-career credit and to find solutions so that these sectors can continue to look at career in a modern way, or even expand this system, as we wish, to all economic sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u66	Mr President, I may be misinformed. But, Mr Gilkinet, with regard to the cost debate, we can discuss at a later stage how to calculate and estimate the total cost of this system. I said that the minimum age could remain at 55 if the social partners conclude a framework agreement. For the rest, the debate is not closed. We can always discuss, inform, etc. You know that I am an open man and that my interests are different, especially for the Tandem plan. I hope I have given some elements that are also interesting to discuss later and inform the ministers of the federated entities and to continue the discussion on costs, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u67	Minister, thank you for your concern to continue the dialogue. With respect to the calculation of costs in the bill we drafted, we made our own estimate. This can be a basis for work and discussion. I am not saying that it is perfect, but we will have made this intellectual effort to try to assess what allows me to assert, according to the assumptions we put forward, that the system is not expensive. I invite you to read it. It appears on the House's website in any case as it was tabled under the previous legislature. We need to put it back in place for this Parliament in the near future. With regard to the definition of a heavy occupation, the problem is that it is not done in a sectoral way, except in the Joint Committee 399.02, an agreement would be reached very quickly on this subject. The debate on the definition of a heavy occupation has been ongoing for a very long time within the National Labour Council and has not been successful so far. I hope that it will succeed: the impact on pensions will be very important. We have already held this debate with Mr Bacquelaine in various sectors. I fully respect the social dialogue, but it is enough for the minister to say that, if a framework agreement is reached, access to the system will be possible from the age of 55; we must be aware that reaching this agreement is currently very difficult. I'm sorry. I hope that the social partners will be able to define the heavy work. This applies as much to the non-market sectors concerned here as to the more physical sectors, such as construction or external trades. My wish is to arrive at a definition, but I see that in recent years this has not been the case. I also note that exceptional principles are possible, regardless of the definition of these heavy occupations, in the context of amendments to the legislation on end-of-career credit. This was done in particular for the accompaniment of a family member in the stage of illness. Why should this not apply to specific areas of initiative? That is my suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u68	Mr President, perhaps there is a slight misunderstanding between us. This is not a discussion about heavy trades, but it would be possible for the National Labour Council (CNT) to decide to organise a debate and to conclude a framework agreement to endorse the 55-year limit. I hope we can clarify this misunderstanding. It is simple: it is necessary to organise a debate and conclude a framework agreement to keep the level of 55 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u69	All right. I hope that the NTC will soon reach an agreement on this matter. I cannot decide in the place of the social partners: this is not the tradition in this country. As an observer and parliamentarian, I simply note that, in Belgium's social history, there is not yet, to my knowledge, an agreement on the definition of a heavy profession. This matter is particularly delicate and difficult. If it opens up at the level of social dialogue, I welcome it; according to my information, this is not the case. We will continue the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u70	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Georges Gilkinet and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Georges Gilkinet and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Employment, Economy and Consumer Affairs, responsible for external trade, asks the government - to reconsider its decisions to restrict access to end-of-career credit; - to contact the social partners in the French-speaking non-market sector involved in the Tandem plan in order to study with them the consequences of federal measures concerning access to time credit and the possibilities of adapting them; - provide for an emergency scheme allowing for early access to end-of-career credit for heavy physical or psychological jobs and occupations; - to explore the possibility of extending the Tandem Plan to all sectors of the economy, with a view to improving the careers of older workers, facilitating the occupational integration of young workers, encouraging the transfer of experience between workers and developing a dynamic of sharing of intergenerational working time. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Georges Gilkinet and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Georges Gilkinet and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Employment, Economy and Consumers, responsible for Foreign Trade, calls on the Government - to take account of decisions on more limited access to end-of-life credit; - contact the social partners of the French-speaking non-profit sector as a stakeholder of the Tandem Plan with a view to jointly studying the effects of the federal measures on access to time credit and the possible adjustments to these measures; - to establish an exception for early access to end-of-life credit for bodily or psychologically burdensome functions and professions; - examine the possibility of extending the Tandem plan to all economic sectors in order to better organise the career of older workers, facilitate the entry of young workers into the labour market, promote the transfer of experience between workers and improve the distribution of working time between generations.' A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Jan Spooren, David Clarinval, Stefaan Vercamer et Vincent Van Quickenborne. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Jan Spooren, Mr David Clarinval, Mr Stefaan Vercamer and Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u71	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, my question is indeed about the recruitment of young people. The problem of youth unemployment appears a few times in the coalition agreement. We've talked about it a few times. Integration benefits have just been dealt with. The National Labour Council recently published a report on the evaluation of the employment contracts. This was actually a disappointing report, in the sense that employers employing at least 50 employees must ensure that at least 3% of the full-time equivalent workforce is made up of young people under the age of 26. For services and institutions which depend on the federal state there is also such an obligation of 3%. For the rest of the public sector and social-profit sector, that is 1.5 %. Over the last ten years, there has been a declining trend in all regions of companies and institutions meeting these obligations: 81.3% of private companies met their obligations in 2013. This is a decrease of 9% compared to 2004. One in five of the companies doesn't meet that requirement. The federal government, which should serve as an example, is doing much worse. It goes from 87.8 % in 2004 to 51.9 % in 2013. Half of our federal institutions and services do not meet these obligations. That's basically punished. There is a compensatory allowance to the RSZ Global Management and the loss of the right to contribution reductions for young workers for the quarter in which that condition is not met. There were checks in the past, but they were rather irregular. Afterwards, the theme was given a lower priority. There would now be no controls on the regionalisation of target groups' policies. That is why I would like to have a better view of this problem. Therefore, I wonder how many companies and institutions have been effectively sanctioned since 2004 as a result of non-achievement of that obligation? How much is the compensatory allowance to be paid for this and how many reductions did the companies fail to make? Can we detect a number of things from the available data? Are there any elements that allow us to decide in which companies, sectors or combinations of sectors and groups the greatest risk is that the objectives will not be met? What are we going to do about the runway agreements, which are an important tool for guiding young people to work? If there are no more controls and sanctions, they are just threatening to become a dead letter for the future. What actions and consultations with the Länder will you take in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u72	Mr Vercamer, first of all, the runway system remains a federal matter for the sake of clarity under the sixth state reform. Therefore, the State reform has no impact on this measure in itself. The federal government and its services retain their full authority over it. Secondly, the Monitoring of Social Laws inspection examined 267 files between 2004 and 2013. In 66 cases, a pro-justitia was drawn up for non-compliance. In 15 cases a warning was given, followed by a correction and in 9 cases the situation was immediately voluntarily regularised. Fifty companies or institutions received an effective penalty in the form of a compensatory payment, for a total effective payment of 107 235.57 euros. In addition to these effective penalties, a considerable number of sentences were issued with delay. The total amount of compensatory payments imposed so far is therefore much higher. Technically, however, it was not possible to calculate this total amount within the time period in which we had to formulate the answer. In addition, from 2004 to 2012, RSZ cancelled contributions for some EUR 420 000. The corresponding amounts were still claimed from the employers concerned. The average was 86 employers per year. The audit procedure for the quarters of 2013 is still ongoing. Data on risk businesses, sectors, large categories or regions to which they belong are unfortunately not available in the competent services. Existing control procedures are simply being continued. Additional efforts are not planned. The accompanying financial support measures, including the reduction of target groups for young workers and Assets Start, were regionalised, but you know that. If the regions wish to consult on this issue with a view to promoting youth employment through better coordination of measures at the various levels of policy, I will of course give them my full cooperation. I can get you all those numbers, broken down, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u73	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. On the 267 dossiers 66 projusti lations were drawn up. So that means one in four isn't okay. You say that we will continue the normal controls. The question arises as to whether it is not worth putting more effort into this, as the start-up contracts are just a step up for young people to gain a first work experience. The federal government scores the worst, with one out of two that doesn't. My call is for a directive to be adopted to monitor this more closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u74	I got it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u75	The question is a little dated. At the beginning of December 2014, it was an actual question. In view of the current situation, could you briefly explain whether there is any news about the consultation with the social partners on measures to combat unemployment?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u76	Mr President, Mr Vercamer, there will also be questions about social dialogue. I might be able to give you something of that by now. At the end of the year, the Group of Ten reached agreement on the royal decisions we have already discussed. The federal government has honored that agreement. That is an important step, because it also has budgetary implications. On 15 January, the Group of Ten will be invited to the federal government. We will then be able to make or make a number of agreements. Youth unemployment is, of course, a concern, not only at the federal level, but also at the regional level, which must be taken very seriously. There are also other issues, such as wealth development, wage bargaining, competitiveness, the modernisation of the labour market, pensions and so on. So there is a lot on the table, but it is important to see what agreements and reactions there are on 15 January, at the meeting with the Group of Ten.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u77	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u78	Minister, the government agreement provides that in the event of an employee's illness, the employer will now pay 100% of the salary during the first two months of illness. Until now, when a worker is ill, the employer only takes care of the first month of illness. Secondly, social security takes over, providing the worker with 60% of his regular income. As for the workers, the employer pays 100% of the wage in the first week and 85.88% in the second week. The following two weeks are paid by both the employer and INAMI, which in this case pays 60% of the gross salary capped. In the government agreement, however, it is expected that entrepreneurs will now take over the two months of illness at 100%. This reform would reflect the idea that the employer would be more responsible for preventing absenteeism for illness. It should therefore ensure that workers are absent for a shorter period of time and possibly offer them suitable work. This vision of things seems to me to be completely unaware of the reality experienced within companies. It is in fact very difficult for employers to be able to combat absenteeism at work and the abuse of medical certificates, as the means of control are weak and ineffective. Moreover, the increase in the cost to employers is a very important attack on the competitiveness of our companies, and may hinder employers in their willingness to recruit for an indefinite period of time. Minister, the questions I have about the merits of such a measure are as follows. Is it not a great risk that in the future, with the increase of the guaranteed wage to two months, workers will not simply be sick longer than before? Because, indeed, why would a worker come back to work faster when he is still paid at 100%? On the other hand, the loss of competitiveness caused by this new policy is obvious. Therefore, will you abandon this bad idea, which is particularly destructive in terms of employment? Do you intend to review this project in the near future, on the understanding that 2015 is postponed and will eventually allow us to find alternatives to this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Clarinval, you know very well that this is a very delicate matter. We had the opportunity to discuss in the past, in 2014, all the elements. But the most important thing, and I can be brief, is to say very clearly that the government decided not to implement the measure in 2015 in order to have time to realize all these conditions and also to organise the social dialogue. It's the most important thing. All the other elements are delicate, that's right, but we have to find a solution in 2016. We have noted 354 million euros. I am convinced that this is not at all obvious and that we must find an intelligent solution. But with all the partners, also here, Mr President, I remain convinced that we will find a solution acceptable to all of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u80	Thank you for your answer. I know that this is a very delicate subject and I hope that we can find an intelligent solution, as you say, in the context of negotiations with the social partners and that this smart solution will be found in a way other than by undermining the competitiveness of our companies through this. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u81	Mr. Chair, Minister, time credit and career interruption systems are devices that allow workers to partially reduce or completely suspend their careers for a period of time. The time credit scheme concerns workers in the private sector, while the career interruption scheme is a similar scheme for the public sector. I would like to address the issue of the inclusion of persons with mixed careers, including in an independent status. The two structures collecting social security contributions for employees and for the self-employed are separate. However, given the increasing number of people engaged in a mixed career, it would probably be appropriate to consider greater coordination and flexibility between these two institutions. I take a very specific example: a 60-year-old woman, who has been employed for 25 years, has the possibility to reduce her working time to a 4/5th time. On the other hand, his colleague, who has a career of twenty-two years as an independent and fifteen years as an employee in the same firm, cannot. How can we explain to her that at the age of sixty, having contributed for 37 years, she will not be able to benefit from this advantage because the legislation does not allow her to do so? Can we not consider specific measures for mixed careers, if we can prove a number of years for which the person or his employer has contributed? My colleague, Valérie Caverenne, had asked your predecessor, Mrs De Coninck, in January 2014 about this issue. Ms De Coninck had then indicated that the main concern was to create a single, total status, as more and more people were changing status or employment. She stated that she was convinced that the rules needed to be adapted to the increase in the number of mixed careers. As your predecessor suggested then, I also think that it would be necessary - perhaps not through a single statute - for all workers to have the same rights, at least when they come under the same conditions, whether they are contractual or not. I think there is a need for reflection, particularly on the conditions for granting this end-of-care leave, in the light of the development of mixed careers. Minister, can you tell me if there is an amendment to this in the government agreement? What is your opinion on this matter? What is the status of negotiations on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u82	Mr Clarinval, I fully agree with your view that a uniform system of time credit and career interruption is necessary. Several steps in this direction have already been taken by the previous government and I intend to continue with the necessary adaptation for the most complete harmonisation of the two regimes. I will shortly present to the Council of Ministers a first part of the adjustment of the royal decrees on time credit and career interruption. In addition, an inventory will be drawn up of the remaining differences between the private and public sector regimes, which will form the basis for the harmonisation of these two regimes by 2020. It should be borne in mind that fundamental differences still exist with regard to the conditions for granting and the amounts of allowances in particular. It is up to the Minister of the Public Service to take initiatives to adjust the right to career interruption.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u83	Minister, thank you for your answer and I encourage you to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u84	Mr President, this question dates back to mid-December. So I'll update them a little bit. At that time, the technical report on the maximum margins available for labour cost development was not yet available. This is the case today. As a result of this report, Minister, you indicated in plenary that the procedure laid down in the 1996 law will be applied. This means that the social partners can first reach a consensus on the possible wage margin. In the absence of consensus, the government is proposing a compromise. If no agreement is reached between the government and the social partners, the government will ultimately take a decision. Firstly, I think it would be useful to hear from the Minister what his expectations and conclusions are about the evolution of the wage gap between Belgium and the neighbouring countries. Secondly, what are the estimates of the future impact of the index jump on the evolution in the wage gap now that we have learned today that the index jump will not be discussed until 2016? Finally, how will you promote social dialogue on wage margins? Within what time limit do you consider it possible to reach an agreement on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u85	Mr President, I will also update my question, which dates from 12 December, so on the eve of the 15th national strike. A national strike, of course, is not trivial. There was one in January 2012 since, let us recall, the measures of the Di Rupo government were not much more sympathetic than those you took. But we must note the exceptional nature of this movement, which is a demonstration of the concern of the citizens of our country, in relation to the measures decided by your Government and, more generally, the deterioration of the social climate in our country. Since its inception, we have called for the government to take this concern into account and to be able to provide answers through a relaunch of social dialogue. In the meantime, various elements have taken place. There was an agreement by the Group of Ten before the Christmas truce. It was important, in principle, that there should be an agreement, but it should also not be overvalued in relation to its content. I've heard a little triumphant messages from you and the Prime Minister. But on the content, they were technical agreements. Let us be glad that the social partners are still able to agree on something, but let us be aware that the essential thing still remains to be done. In particular, a challenge to the various measures that have been taken or announced by your Government, to previous measures, whether they are index jumps or to the measures relating to integration allowances that have already been discussed. So I just wanted to know the state of affairs that concerns you, regarding the report of the Central Economic Council, the new stages of social dialogue and the positive measures – once it is not customary – that the government could put on the table to revive social dialogue, rather than blowing on embers that are still ardent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 17 December the Group of Ten reached an agreement on two elements. The first element is the R &amp; D funds that we have talked about several times, in relation to SWTs, time credits and so on. The second element is an agreement on the loose ends of the first phase of the unitary statute for workers and servants. You're right, Mr. Gilkinet. This is not a big deal with huge content. But the most important – and that is why I was very positive – is that, for the first time, the members of the Group of Ten have managed to reach an agreement between them. We hope, of course, that this is not the last one. It was a first in a very delicate situation. There is a second element, namely that the Central Business Council sent the technical report to the government. This is a second positive element that the debate on a technical report has been closed in the Central Economic Council. This agreement has also been given the necessary publicity. According to the report, the labour cost handicap amounted to 2.9 % in 2014, including the index jump, starting on 1 February. You are all aware of the procedure provided for in the 1996 law. That procedure provides for two months for the Group of Ten to reach an agreement on the wage standard, in this case for the period 2015-2016. The Prime Minister and I wrote a letter to the social partners on 23 December to announce the beginning of those two months from that date. On 23 February, therefore, the two-month deadline is in principle over. At the latest at the end of February, the Group of Ten could reach an agreement on the wage standard for the period 2015-2016. You also know that if the social partners fail to do so, the law will allow the government to come up with a compromise proposal within one month in order to get out. So that is what we are now in the concept of concentric circles. The first concentric circle is closed and the second one now begins with wage bargaining, the welfare envelope and a number of other things. I have just referred to 15 January, when the contact between the Group of Ten and the Federal Government will take place in order to make agreements. I am convinced that social dialogue is very important. We are all convinced of that. But doing it in practice is another thing. I remain positive about the fact that a solution was found in the first concentric circle. We will see with the second and third circles. It is true that there is still a lot of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u87	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We can only ensure that we do everything we can to facilitate social dialogue so that the social partners can reach an agreement. Social peace is essential in these difficult times.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u88	Minister, social peace depends not only on dialogue but also on the means that are put on the table. It is known that the right agreements are obtained when there are margins and when the principle of interprofessional agreement is respected, rather than referring the negotiations to the different sectors. This creates inequalities between sectors that have means and others that have less. I am thinking in particular of the non-market sector, which does not have the same negotiating capacity. However, I do not understand in your speech that you intend to put more resources than what is contained in the welfare envelope provided for by the law. We, too, are committed to social peace. But we know that the condition of this social peace is for the government to put its own, and more so than what it has done so far. We will see whether this theory of concentric circles will have its effects and whether, after this first small agreement, a slightly greater agreement will be possible and then a means and finally a great agreement. I still have doubts, but I'm a fundamentally optimistic person.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u89	Mr President, Minister, the Major Act of 1972 obliges employers to carry out port work in port areas by authorized port workers. In Spain there is a similar law, but at the beginning of December the European Court of Justice condemned Spain for this. According to the European Court of Justice, the Spanish law on port labour, whereby port workers must be elected from the local pool, is contrary to European directives and, more specifically, to freedom of establishment. The European Commission has also opened an investigation into the Major Act and stated in March last year that there may be a problem with freedom of establishment. Meanwhile, the CEO of the Port of Ghent, Daan Schalck, pleads not for abolition but for a relaxation of the Major law. He felt that this would be a step forward for inland waterway transport, as it would make it possible for inland waterway vessels to be unloaded more flexibly and cheaply. This could give a new boost to inland waterway transport. He also argued that distribution companies should be excluded from port work, which could attract new distribution activities. So, Minister, I think it is useful to know how you assess the impact of the ruling of the European Court of Justice on the Belgian Major Act. We have heard that you have been in contact with the European Commission on this matter. Is that so? What's come up? What further steps will you take in this dossier? What is your response to the proposal of the CEO of the Port of Ghent?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u90	Mr President, Minister, Mr Vercamer referred to the ruling of the European Court of Justice on Spain. Our law dates back to 1972. We also know that port work was organized in a very different way at that time. We are now in 2015. Mr Marc Van Peel once again pointed out today the strong competition from Rotterdam and Vlissingen. The port of Antwerp, I speak as Antwerp's Member of Parliament, who must compete against those two ports. Mr Van Peel rightly refers to this concern, because the fact that 170 000 tonnes of Chiquita bananas are moving from Antwerp to Vlissingen is a result of a lack of flexibility in the organisation of port labour. I think he's more than right. It is not the first time that companies have left the port of Antwerp. The port of Ghent will probably also have to do with competition. No one is arguing against the protection of port workers either. Two years ago I myself walked with the dock workers for ten days when loading and unloading. It is logical that there should be protection of the profession in terms of safety and professional qualifications. However, especially as regards logistics, we must consider how they are organised and how they still fit under the port labour law. The law of 1972 is not so much the big problem. It has only five articles. It's mostly the codex that needs to be viewed. The social partners have made all kinds of decisions in this context, and the codex is now a half-meter long. We must therefore consider how to organise port labour in a more flexible way, so that the port remains competitive, without compromising security. As I have been involved in the work myself, I am convinced that we need to take into account the safety aspect and the professional qualification. After all, it is not just "a profession." It's also in the coalition agreement. We must not modernise to modernise. It is necessary to consider how port labour can be organised in 2014 in view of, first and foremost, employment, competition with other ports, the safety of port workers and ensuring professional qualifications. I don't see any contradiction in it. I want to ask you about a state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u91	Minister, my question also deals with the condemnation by the European Court of Justice. There has been some commotion from the condemnation by the European Court of the Spanish port labour regime. Some concluded that the Belgian scheme, better known as the Major Act, would also have the same fate in the relatively short term. In its letter of formal notice of 28 March 2014, the European Commission already considered that the current regulation of port work in Belgium is contrary to the freedom of establishment in a number of areas, as guaranteed by Article 49 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. If I have been informed correctly, Minister, the administration has already answered a number of questions which have already been clarified and refuted in advance by the European authorities. The then Minister of Work had asked the Chairman of the Joint Committee to set up a working group with the social partners concerned and the administration in order to examine possible remedies for the remaining questions and potential bottlenecks. In substance, the Belgian legislation on port work did not constitute an unjustified restriction on freedom of establishment. On this basis, during the period of ongoing business, through permanent representation, a number of potential remedial efforts were tested, in order to make our arrangements even more consistent with European rules, to the extent that it would be perceived as not fully compliant by the European Commission for a number of aspects. My questions are therefore the following, Minister. Have there been or planned further contacts with the services of the European Commission to further refine or clarify these slopes? Has the working group, led by the chairman of the Joint Committee, come back together to examine with the social partners concerned a feedback of the reactions of the European bodies? Are there any additional conversations with these agencies? Can you tell us what other aspects might be called for further clarification by the government? Thank you for your answer!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u92	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if I am not mistaken, I have already received an actual question on this at the end of last year. What's the status? The administration, the FOD WASO, and my cabinet met the European Commission, in particular DG Employment and DG MOVE, on Wednesday 17 December. At that meeting, the Commission explained the judgment condemning the Spanish port labour system. The Commission maintains its position in its letter of formal notice of 28 March 2014 that the Belgian port labour system is contrary to the freedom of establishment. Moreover, this opinion concerns not just the so-called Major Act, which merely sets out the framework, but the whole set of arrangements, which are often also established in collective agreements. So it's bigger than the Major Act. The Commission representatives also provided indicative chalk lines on a Belgian response to the letter of formal notice of March 2004. I shall come back to that later on, and I shall shortly be organising the social dialogue, to hear from the social partners how they react to it. I think it is right and proper to give the social dialogue a chance first and then, of course, to give it a text and explanation here in committee. Moreover, the European Commission is aware of our demand to be able to settle the matter in the social dialogue and to allow social dialogue to develop appropriate solutions. This is also in line with Europe's opportunities for sectoral social dialogue at European level. On 12 December, the European social partners in the port sector adopted a declaration which clearly states that the social partners should initially be given the opportunity to develop their sector's work organisation model. They must, of course, respect the legislation in force, both national and European. For Belgium there is also the letter of formal notice, which cannot remain without a satisfactory reply. Our objective remains to ensure maximum protection for the organisation of Belgian port work, in cooperation with the sectoral social partners and in constructive consultation with the European institutions. At the same time, it is our concern to maintain social peace in the sector. During the next few days or weeks, the social partners will therefore be informed in detail about the discussion with the Commission. We assume that we will then continue to look together at how we will deal with the issue and how the social partners react to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u93	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. That is to say, and that is also our plea that something must be done and that the social partners will have the first chance to settle this between themselves, albeit within European and Belgian legislation and within the sector. We hope that social peace can be preserved by giving these social partners their responsibility to come up with appropriate proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u94	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. Of course, I agree with you that the social partners should be given the opportunity to offer a solution. This is also a file that doesn't date from yesterday. I know that Minister Monica De Coninck also tried very hard at the time to get those social partners to move and make them understand that something must be done. I understand, of course, that you're giving them another chance. The solution must come from them. If it does not come and there is a letter of formal notice, I do think that if they do not accept their responsibility, this government should do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u95	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased to hear that you want to give the social dialogue every opportunity. After all, I believe that it is indeed a complex issue and that the social partners are the appropriate people to help us find a solution. I will ask you again at a later date in the hope that you will then come to a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u96	Minister, at the end of the past legislature, our Parliament passed an important act, creating a specific statute for close caregivers, those people who decide to reduce or sacrifice their professional activity in order to take care of a family member, sick or disabled. The initiative was quite positive. Real resources were to be given to these people. On the other hand - and this is deeply concerned by the organisations representing these close caregivers - the measures provided for in your general policy note may have a dramatic impact on these families: the measures taken with regard to the end of their careers, the limitation of the time credit without reason, the cancellation of the exemption for social and family reasons, the reduction of the income guarantee allowance, the condition of the diploma for access to the integration allowances. Indeed, since they do not take into account the particular situations, all these measures will affect a large number of close caregivers, young, adult, of the "sandwich" generation, caregivers of all ages, and especially close female caregivers, who are the majority in this social group. All these legal arrangements were used by close caregivers in order to perform their duties in the best interests of the parent or relative they accompany for months, years, ensuring that a minimum of social and vocational integration was maintained. In recent weeks, there have been some striking examples in the media of families, including a woman with a child with disabilities of about 20 years of age, who had used the credit-time mechanism to continue to care for her child while keeping a restricted professional activity and who had to give up in view of the new measures. Minister, can you tell me if you have an assessment or an estimate of the number of close caregivers who will be affected by the time credit and end-of-care measures decided by the government? To what extent have the consequences for close caregivers been taken into account by the government? Are you in contact with associations representing close caregivers on this subject? They exist on both the French and Flemish sides. Have you met or intend to meet them? This may be the best way to create expertise on the issue as long as they know the field very well. To what extent do you intend to take into account the status of close caregiver as defined by law, in order to introduce an exception scheme for the persons concerned? It would be good if this law, which we have also welcomed, were used in practice to grant rights to those people who are in need of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u97	Mr Gilkinet, as far as your first question is concerned, the number of close caregivers affected by the time credit or unemployment measures is not known. There are no administrative data on this group. As far as your second question is concerned, we have taken into account close helpers in the implementation of the budgetary measures. Thus, the time credit for care was extended by 12 months. The possibility of maintaining the minimum age for end-of-career time credits at 55 years for workers who are victims of restructuring or workers who work in a heavy occupation or who have a 35 year career, provided that they have a senior CLC, is another measure which targets, among other things, close caregivers. I would point out to you that the thematic holidays, which are very explicitly concerned with close caregivers, are not affected by economic measures. As far as your third question is concerned, I have not yet met with the associations of close caregivers, but I am obviously ready to receive them and listen to their requests. With regard to your last question, we have not taken any exceptional measures based on the legal status of close caregivers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u98	I confirm my diagnosis that the inclusion of this specific category, now recognized by law, is not sufficient at this stage. The 12-month extension of the possibility of credit-time does not correspond to the situation of a mother or father with a disabled child; her situation, physical or mental condition, her disability unfortunately persists well beyond this 12-month period. You received, at the end of December, an open letter from the ASBL Helpers close to you; I had a copy of it. As you are open to dialogue, I invite you to respond and to meet with representatives of this ASBL who will be able to explain to you in concrete terms the consequences of the measures you have taken for these families who are obliged to use all the legal mechanisms available. As the number of legal arrangements available has been severely restricted for budgetary reasons, and in a linear way, they are now in great concern and difficulty. We believe it is interesting to use the current definition to adapt legal frameworks and allow for exceptional schemes for the persons concerned. The fact that at this stage you do not have statistics on the number of close caregivers involved in these career adjustment schemes is symptomatic because they are too little taken into account in employment policies. The legislation is relatively recent; you have five years before you to change the system. I encourage you to start with a meeting with those concerned. That's why I'm going to give you a copy of the letter I received.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u99	Mr President, Minister, the government agreement states that the budgets for the structural reduction of low wages will be maintained. The reason for this question was the survey of SD Worx among SMEs. This shows that SMEs expect a direct reduction in charges. Previous studies, from both the National Bank, the Federal Planning Bureau and professors of the UCL, show that a reduction in charges effectively leads to more employment, especially if it is waged on low wages. In the previous legislature, we requested information on the evolution of the reduction in wages on low wages. In 2006, this was EUR 293 million for the low-wage component and EUR 322 million for the high-wage component. At the end of 2010, it was found that the wage reduction for the low-wage component had fallen to 239 million euros, or a 20% reduction, and that it had increased to 431 million euros for the high-wage component, or an increase of 33%. This was therefore a shift of EUR 150 million from the low-wage component to the high-wage component, while we should maintain at least the same level, given that a reduction in the burden on low-wages leads to more effective employment. Can you give me an update on the evolution of the effective amounts of the wage cuts for the low and high wages between 2006 and 2013, as well as the methodology for reaching those amounts? In recent years, which sectors have received the most reductions in charges on low wages? What amounts are we talking about? What is the trend in employment in these sectors? How do you interpret this evolution? What decisions do you take to make the commitment in the coalition agreement concrete? How will you do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the good news, I understand, is that question No. 1090 on the meal cheques is a question for my colleague, Minister De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u101	Is Mrs. De Block authorized to do that? So that's not a question for Minister Peeters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u102	That's what we were told.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u103	Is that good news or bad news?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u104	Mr President, I believe that this is good news, because it concerns the last question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u105	That used to be a question for Mrs. De Coninck.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u106	I'll take another look at it, but given the advanced hour, it's fine. Less good news is that I have a very comprehensive answer ready. We take every question very much to heart, especially when it comes from Mr Stefaan Vercamer. In the first quarter of 2006, 575 000 employees benefited from the low wage reduction. The total reduction for that quarter was 82 million euros. For the same quarter in 2012, the number of low-wage workers had fallen to 348 000. The total contribution reductions for low wages had fallen to more than half compared to 2006, i.e. to EUR 40 million. This sharp downward trend is mainly due to the fact that the wage threshold used to define low wages has remained unchanged over a very long period of time, i.e. EUR 5 870.71 gross per quarter, while actual wages increase annually. More recently, there has been a further sharp decrease in the number of low-wage workers as a result of the amended regulation from the second quarter of 2013. From then on, the previous government decided to increase the basic rate of structural reduction by EUR 52.5 per quarter for all. For low-wage workers, it compensated for this additional reduction by reducing the low-wage component. The wage limit applied has since been reduced to EUR 5 560.49 per quarter, resulting in only 222 000 employees in the second quarter of 2013. The reverse effect is evident in the reduction at high wages. In the first quarter of 2006, employers received this reduction for 185 000 employees. The total reduction was EUR 79 million. In the first quarter of 2012, the number of high-wage workers had increased to 282 000. The total contribution reduction for high wages had risen to 120 million euros. The explanation is the same as for low wages, but the effect is reversed. Blocking the wage limit applied for many years at 12 000 euros gross per quarter led to a new inflow into high wages, because real wages were, of course, rising. The ratio of the budget for reduced contributions to low wages, on the one hand, and to high wages, on the other, has changed overall over the years. So you were right to see that. In the meantime, however, wage limits are adapted to the index evolution, so that this will not be repeated in the future. I note with you that there is a great consensus on the high wage burden in this country. The decline is, as you know, one of the top priorities of this government, which uses different techniques for this purpose. For example, the index jump and the moderate evolution of wages under the 1996 Law will also make an important contribution. Any reduction in wage costs will ultimately lead to higher employment on balance. We know that, in the short term, the greatest employment effect will certainly be a reduction in the burden on low wages. Everyone knows that. The low-wage component included in the structural burden reduction is therefore essential. The government will therefore implement its reinforcement, which was agreed by the previous government. What was planned for 2017 will be speeded up in 2016. This is important, because, as I have already mentioned, the importance of the low-wage component has fallen significantly. This is obviously not the right way to go. You also know that the government is ultimately seeking to reduce the basic rate for social security contributions. Now the rate is high and everyone gets a reduction. This creates a wrong picture of the real level of our wage burden, which has a negative impact on potential foreign investors, among other things. This basic rate will include the additional reduction of charges and the additional reduction for higher wages. In this way, we will achieve a coherent system at federal level, a reduced general rate, and on top of that, only a reduction for lower wages. I would also like to point out that the government agreement explicitly states that the rates which today are de facto less than 25% will be maintained and that this will be objectively legally anchored. Unfortunately, on the basis of the information available at the RSZ, I cannot answer your question about those sectors that make the most use of the low-wage reduction. In fact, less use can be made of it both as an indicator of falling employment and of rising wages as a result of improved performance. We must therefore be careful to draw conclusions from this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u107	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Your answer surprises me a little, in the sense that the evolution of low wages is falling seriously and is rising enormously for high wages. So we are actually doing the wrong move, if I may put it that way. You say that we will change the wage limits, but we should actually make a catch-up. Not only must this be adapted, there must also be a catch-up movement, so that low wages can enjoy much more of the reduction than high wages. I believe that we need to think carefully about this and that we need to make serious adjustments. After all, this is the opposite of what everyone recommends.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u108	Mr Vercamer, there will be a catch-up movement. Now that we are in the driving seat, we can work it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic048x.u109	Debates of the European Parliament 1090 by Mr Vercamer will be answered by Minister De Block.
