ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u1	Mr President, Minister, the debate on the guarantee of return for supplementary pensions remains under-explained, in particular the extent to which insurers and other providers of the so-called second pillar pensions are objectively unable to achieve the guarantee of return in the long term. According to the expert committee's report, there is a need for an objective measuring instrument that maps the costs of the various providers uniformly, according to the Dutch model. This is worth an important discussion, because in the end this is at the heart of the matter, knowing whether insurers are now able to guarantee the guarantee of return in the long term. Minister, with what proposal on the adjustment of the guarantee of return did you go to the NAR for advice? What steps will you take to achieve an objective measuring tool to identify costs for second pillar pension providers? What is the government's view on the chronology of the decisions to be taken? Do you agree with what was written by the Commission's Expert Group on Pension Reform 2020-2040, namely that there is an urgent need for an objective measuring tool for determining the costs and thus the efficiency of second pillar pension providers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u2	Mr President, Minister, some time ago you said that, with regard to the legally guaranteed minimum interest rate of 3,25 %, you want to keep existing contracts at 3,25 % and work with variable rates in new contracts in group insurance. In the meantime, we have been able to read many different interpretations about this. Some had understood that new deposits in old contracts would also be subject to variable interest rates, while others did not understand it that way. We therefore need some clarification. Firstly, do you confirm the view that the government must react quickly on this issue? My question was put two months ago. This issue was raised in the Chamber three or four years ago and your predecessors, including the Liberals, did not want to intervene. At that time, the insurers' proposal was to lower the minimum interest rate to 2.25 %. In other words, do the successive governments have no butter on their heads by not reacting for years? Secondly, where are the consultations with the insurance companies? Assuralia says that 3,25 % cannot be guaranteed, your predecessor said in 2013 that the low interest rate does not pose a problem for the current liabilities of insurance companies. I quote: 'The insurers have covered themselves so that they can fulfil these obligations.' What is it, anyway? When are we going to get a ruling on this? Thirdly, what happens if insurance companies cannot maintain the interest rate of 3,25 %, even for existing contracts? A widely heard argument is that in this case employers must adjust the rest of the additional pension contracted out themselves. Will the government make a financial contribution to this scenario, in order to avoid that either the employers or the employees have to pay for that breach of contract? Fourthly, do existing group insurance contracts remain unchanged in your plans, i.e. with a minimum interest rate of 3.25 %? In other words, new deposits in existing contracts are also subject to the minimum interest rate of 3.25 % or will all deposits, including deposits in new contracts or new deposits in earlier contracts, be subject to the variable interest rate? I come to my final question. There's a big problem. In Belgium, some 2.4 million employees have joined the group insurance scheme. That's not negative. The question arises in what way you will assume your financial liability. You know that group insurance is concluded between the insurance company and the employer, and not between the insurance company and the employee. For the employee, the group insurance and the minimum statutory interest are part of the contract of employment. Moreover, in your measures and in the proposals contained in the memorandum you submitted to the social partners, I wonder whether you have already received an answer to your questions in the meantime. In that case, the employee could rely on that contract of employment to require the employer to cover the difference if the interest rate in practice goes down. In view of the fact that 2.4 million workers are connected to that system, there is therefore an immense problem where appropriate. I would have liked some clarification on this too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u3	Mr President, Minister, the debate on the guarantee of return on supplementary pensions has been going on for many years. At the last meeting of the Social Affairs Committee at the beginning of March, I also asked you a question about this. As you know, the insurance sector is asking for this system to be revised. Are we going towards a complete abolition of the guarantee of return? Are we going towards a link with the interest rate on government bonds? What about the current contracts? Is there a distinction between current and new contributions to existing contracts? In reply to my previous question, you said that you had delivered a note to the NAR and that it is now ultimately up to the social partners in the NAR to discuss this further. You replied at the beginning of March. This question is a follow-up question. What's the status at the NAR? What was the response of the NAR to your note? I would also like to receive a copy of that note, because a few days after our committee meeting, it was published in the press. It seemed to me to be an interesting note. What questions did you put to the NAR? What are the next steps? In the meantime, we're a few months away. Perhaps now you can clarify your vision and the government's vision? Will the guaranteed return be abolished? Will it be replaced by a new system? If so, what will this look like?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u4	Mr President, Minister, on 12 February last, on the occasion of a topical question, I expressed my concern at the uncertainty surrounding the maintenance of statutory rates of return for group insurance recipients. You replied that you would formally invite the National Labour Council (NTC) to resume its discussions on the subject and to consider a number of hypotheses. You expected an agreement before the end of the first half of 2015. From what I was able to read later in the press, in case of a lack of agreement within the NTC by June, you will take responsibility for imposing a solution. You would in fact be in favour of a variable rate of return that should keep pace with market developments but remain high enough to maintain insurance interest. I am concerned about this, because the creation of a supplementary pension is a long-term saving that feeds throughout the career. We need to be able to trust the system. The introduction of a system of variable rates seems to me to destabilise the second pillar of pension. The principle of a guaranteed technical rate in life insurance is precisely a means of avoiding the impact of cyclical variations on long-term objectives. Variable beneficiary participations may be added depending on the circumstances and the results of the investments, but there is a guaranteed basis. How could your government envisage a generalisation of the second pillar of the pension with a compulsory levy on wages, even though the main interested parties would not even have in return a promise of a minimum pension clearly guaranteed in relation to the investment made? This would mean making one type of savings compulsory at the expense of other investments that offer no more or less stability for retirement. Minister, this situation leads us to ask you again not only about the state of progress and the opinion of the NTC and the agreed timetable, but also about the implications of moving towards variable rates. Are options other than variable rates currently under consideration? Should variable rates or other new formulas be adopted, would this reform apply to new contracts or insurance premiums paid in existing contracts? What experts would be responsible for setting variable rates, with what frequency and on what basis? Would such a course call into question the government's agreements with regard to the generalization of the second pension pillar? What about the existing pension promises, for which insurers already practice in practice lower rates than those provided for by law? Will employers have to replace this loss of earnings for the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the risk of disappointing you a little, you are lending me positions which I have never taken and which I do not intend to take today. Since the meeting of 17 March 2015 of the National Labour Council, following my letter of 24 February 2015, I have presented to the social partners of the CNT a working document describing the framework of the problem on the guarantee of performance and I do not take position in this note, contrary to what I hear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u6	We read it in the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u7	That's not my problem! The press is independent. She writes what she wants to write. I did not take a position on that note. On the other hand, I have asked a number of questions which seem to me to sum up all the questions that can be asked on the subject. I asked nine questions. Is there a need for performance assurance? For what types of pension plans is a performance guarantee required? What method is used to determine the level of performance assurance? Should the calculation of the performance guarantee for personal contributions and employer contributions be differentiated? If the rate of return is changed, what contribution does the new rate apply to? When can an affiliate benefit from the performance guarantee? Should the performance guarantee be the same for all affiliates? Should the performance guarantee be funded at any time or only when it is due? Should the performance guarantee be borne by the organizers or by the pension agencies? In this document, I also ask the social partners whether they wish to see further amendments to the Supplementary Pensions Act. Mrs Kitir, with regard to the Commission's proposal for pension reform 2020-2040 to develop an instrument for comparing costs, I have also asked the social partners whether there should be no transparency in costs. In this way, we will be able to reflect the part of the gross financial return used up by the management of pension commitments. On the basis of the outcome of their discussions, I will do what is necessary. Discussions with the social partners have begun. Several meetings are scheduled. In addition, I have committed myself to the social partners within the National Labour Council to refrain from expressing my views on this issue until the end of June in order to respect the discussions held there. I would like to give social consultation every opportunity to succeed. I will advise depending on the outcome of these discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u8	Minister, I am pleased to hear that you have also asked the question about the proportion of costs to the NAR so that there can be more transparency. That is the essence of the current debate and of my question whether it is true that this can no longer be guaranteed in the longer term. Mr President, I am addressing you now. When the NAR's advice comes in, I hope that we can discuss it with the members of the Social Affairs Committee and that we will not be faced with a royal decision or communication from the Council of Ministers. It is an important discussion that we should be able to have in this committee. The situation has evolved over 15 years. Fifteen years ago, one in three was a member of a supplementary pension and now three in four is a member of the second pillar. This is an important part of the debate on the share of pensions. We are far from there, because not all workers have joined a second pillar yet. It is an essential part of the pension and of the contract with employees. That is why I hope that we in this committee will be able to hold the debate on the basis of the NAR's opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u9	Minister, you are right to say that the press writes what it wants, but at the beginning of March you yourself pointed out that it was for the government to take action in this matter. In view of what we have all heard in the meantime, my questions seemed logical to me. I understand that you do not want to make any statements until the end of June, because you want to wait until the consultation. Nevertheless, I expected a more reassuring answer from you. You could have indicated a direction by saying what the government absolutely cannot do. There is absolutely no way that 2.4 million people connected to that system would be put in the cold in one way or another. With this second pension pillar, they have created a hard-earned thirst apple and, with all the proposals on variable interest rates and interest rates, it is likely to become a core. I would have expected a more reassuring answer from you, and you would accept your financial liability if it were to go that way. I am holding back until the end of June, but from 1 July I will again put forward a question on the state of play.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u10	We're looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u11	Mr. Secretary, you were right. You said at the beginning that you would disappoint us with your answer. That's right. It bothers me that you make substantive statements in the press, but always avoids that in committee. In the press, you have said that you want to make a clear distinction between the contributions so far and the future contributions that might be covered by another system. That makes sense. I think we share this view, but it is a clear statement of substance. You do not succeed in expressing that here in Parliament, but in the press. You say that the NAR will hopefully come up with an opinion by June. I agree with Mrs Kitir's request that this opinion be discussed here before decisions are taken at government level. What if the NAR doesn't come to a consensus, Minister? This is not the only thing that is being passed on by the government to the social partners. You will also pass on another difficult discussion about the heavy-duty professions. Those are very delicate issues. The social partners have not succeeded in reaching a list of heavy-duty occupations in the past. I believe that the government must also make decisions in this regard. That's not happening yet. It's being shifted to June. You cannot, of course, keep postponing this. You know our position. We must ensure that we do not make pensions too often dependent on the performance of the market and on our economy. That guarantee of return is a protection, a buffer against it. I would warn against giving up too quickly. As far as the revision of the return is concerned, this product must of course remain sufficiently attractive to the employee who decides to give up part of his salary monthly in order to benefit from it only twenty or thirty years later. The long-term return must therefore remain attractive enough. Otherwise we will no longer want to know about this system. Pensions increasingly depend on supplementary pensions. Well, then you've got a problem there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u12	Minister, thank you for your answer. I agree with Mrs Kitir when she says that it is essential to be able to discuss it in committee. Of course, our wish is not to go towards variable rates. A more comfortable pension must be guaranteed. It's important for people. The legal pension in the first pillar is precarious for many. This supplementary pension must therefore be guaranteed, which is important for a large number of citizens who have subscribed to these insurances. We will await your answers, the discussions in committee and the opinion of the NTC, which will also be important.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u13	I gave the note to the National Labour Council. And deux langues.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u14	The note will be distributed to the members of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u15	Mr Minister, can we know your opinion on the question of discussing it in the Committee on Social Affairs? You'll decide that as a minister yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u16	We're autonomous.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u17	You can decide together, as long as we get an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u18	Frank Vandenbroucke asked if he could come. We will organise this if you want a debate on this in the Committee on Social Affairs. Minister, can that be organized?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u19	I am open to the organisation of a debate. There's no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u20	Mr President, if the NAR's opinion on the questions asked is in place, can we discuss it in committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u21	Mr President, as far as the Commission for Pension Reform is concerned, it will soon be transformed into an academic council within the framework of the project which has been adapted within our committee. At that time, it will be recognized by Parliament. It is therefore normal for the latter to ask its members to come and speak before the committee. Nevertheless, I would prefer that the draft institution of the academic council be voted first in plenary session before organising this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u22	If the text has already been adopted, why is it still necessary to debate it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u23	The National Pension Committee has nothing to do with this. This is the law on (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u24	Then it's okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u25	Mr President, I think there is some confusion. Mrs Kitir's question, which is supported by the committee, is to discuss the NAR's opinion on this guarantee of return here, independently of the Vandenbroucke pension committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u26	I am open to a debate on this subject. One might even consider inviting all interested parties: insurers, pension funds, companies, social partners. But I suggest that you let the National Labour Council work on this issue until July, before considering starting this debate. The work of the NTC cannot be short-circuited.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u27	Minister, we are not asking to work side by side. We're asking for a follow-up. You have now requested the advice of the NAR. We give all the time and respect for that. As soon as that opinion is available, we would like to have the discussion on this in committee. We note that you agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u28	We will organise it in this way. That's noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u29	Mr President, Minister, this question, which dates back to the beginning of March, has given me some clarification on the decision to increase the lowest pensions by 2%, in line with the welfare envelope. Which pensions are we talking about exactly? What is the relationship to the index jump, which will also apply to pensions? Which pensions will be affected and which will not? What additional increases in pensions is the government planning?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u30	Mr President, Mr De Vriendt, for pensions, the government, in the context of the welfare envelope, plans the following increases: the increase of the low guaranteed minimum pension for employees to the minimum pension level for employees from 1 June 2015, the increase of the minimum pension level for employees and self-employed persons by 2% from 1 September 2015, the increase of all minimum pension rates for employees by 2% from 1 September 2015, the increase of the minimum duty rate per career year by 2% from 1 September 2015, the increase of the minimum duty ceiling per career year by 2% from 1 January 2015 and the increase of the holiday fee by 15% from 2012. Pensioners for whom the amount is lower than the amount of the holiday allowance will receive the same increase. The amount of the holiday allowance will thus not be limited to the amount of the pension for employees received by the persons concerned in May. The pensions applied for 1995 will be increased by 1% from 1 September 2015. Five-year-old pensions will be increased by 2% on 1 September 2015 and 1 January 2016. Although it does not really concern global management, for the sake of completeness, from 1 September 2015, the basic amount of the income guarantee for the elderly will also be increased by 2%, as well as the amounts paid out of the guaranteed income for the elderly. In the context of the index jump, an additional envelope of €127 million is foreseen for pensions, which will partially compensate for the index gap. The specific provisions of the envelope have not yet been decided. The index jump will also take place at the earliest in 2016, perhaps in 2017. No further increases are currently planned. Let us not forget that the increases mentioned already represent a budget of almost half a billion euros spread over 2015 and 2016, which is double the amount reserved for pensions in the period 2013-2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your clear and complete answer. You confirm that the index jump will also apply to pensions. You say that there is a budget of EUR 127 million to partially compensate for this, but you do not, of course, mention the pensions for which this will apply. Where's the border? I hope that you will safeguard the lowest pensions from the index jump. I hope the limit isn't on the minimums. You list the increases as part of the welfare envelope and they tend to focus heavily on minimum pensions. We must not underestimate the global poverty and financial problems of our senior citizens. Each year, the published yearbooks on poverty account for between 20% and 25% of pensioners. So you still have a lot of work to do. Unfortunately, the government has decided on an antisocial measure, the index jump. Even the most vulnerable among us, pensioners, with statutory pensions, which are already low in our country, are not fully protected from this. That is absolutely regrettable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u32	Minister, I have already asked this question to the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. In the previous legislature, he himself asked the question to his predecessor, so I thought I should be with the person responsible for Asylum and Migration for my question. However, now that he himself is a State Secretary, he passes on the question to you. Article 24 (2) of the General Convention of 24 June 1968 between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Kingdom of Morocco on social security provides that the widow's pension is to be distributed equally among those women if the beneficiary is married to several women. Since Belgian legislation does not recognise polygamy, that provision is contrary to it. A painful consequence of this is that widows who have lived in Belgium all their lives must share their pensions with women living in Morocco. A few years ago, such a case occurred. At that time, the response of the Pension Service was that according to the Convention he must acknowledge the second marriages, that the person concerned is legally married to two women under Moroccan family law and that Belgium must respect that. Belgium must therefore obviously ignore its own legislation in order to comply with foreign law. I think that's a really crazy situation. Are you aware of the situation, Minister? Have any steps been taken to eliminate this injustice? Is the government prepared to take an initiative to revise the general agreement between Belgium and Morocco on this point? Today, something that Belgian legislation does not recognise, is being maintained by the Treaty, against our legislation. I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u33	Mrs Pas, polygamy is indeed a criminal offence under Belgian law. The General Convention on social security between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Kingdom of Morocco, approved by law of 20 July 1970, is by no means intended to support polygamy. The aim of the Convention is, inter alia, to lay down the rules for the granting of benefits for which Moroccan workers had paid social security contributions in Belgium. Article 24 of the Convention took into account, on the one hand, the hypothesis whereby, on the basis of the Moroccan nationality of the insured person and the possibility of polygamy in Moroccan law, several widows could be entitled simultaneously to a survivor's pension and, on the other hand, to avoid that hypothesis giving rise to an integral pension payment to more than one person. An adaptation of Article 24 of the General Convention is only possible after a re-negotiation of the Convention with Morocco. I do not think it is appropriate to re-negotiate such a highly lengthy process because of the problem of polygamy, since it is an extinct phenomenon. After all, on 5 February 2004, the new Moroccan family legislation came into force which makes polygamous marriages virtually impossible. Moreover, that legislation also provides that the first wife's consent is now required.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You say it is a deafening phenomenon, Minister, but that does not, of course, solve the problem today. Extinguishing scenarios are still dragging on in practice for a long time. Besides, the first wife won't always decide for herself without any outside pressure, I guess. Minister, I had asked the question to Secretary of State Francken before he left for Morocco to tell him that this had to be negotiated. I would have expected you to act more decisively, because now, with Article 24 (2) of the Treaty, you are maintaining an infringement of our legislation. I am of the same opinion as Zuhal Demir, who wrote a long opinion piece on this last year in Knack. We must not compromise on our basic rights. The government has to take action in the matter. I'll let her know that you're not. Hopefully your coalition partners will.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u35	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Catherine Fonck's 3257 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u36	Minister, I tabled this question during the Easter recess, because it was announced by our river pilots that they might take action again as a result of the reform of their pension status. When the river sheds announce something like this, I always get a bit scared as a Fleming and as an Antwerpian in particular. After all, we remember that their actions weighed heavily on our economy two years ago. Fortunately, and I must congratulate you on that, you have been alert and you have sat around the table with some of them. If I give you that compliment from my angle and from the opposition, you may assume it is serious. Today, I can only ask you for an update on this dossier. What pension reforms were you thinking? What were you up to? What is the state of the negotiations you are currently conducting with the river sheds in this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u37	In reply to his questions, I can inform Mr Penris that I have met the pilots. In the context of our discussions, I was able to reassure them. As long as the debate on the heavy professions has not been held within the National Pension Committee, they will be able to retain their preferential tantième. Moreover, I have committed myself to seeking a solution with them to a specific technical problem arising from the application of a pension law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u38	Mr President, I believe that the Minister has given the essentials. This concerns the concept of "heavy occupation'. Is the pilotage profession a heavy occupation? For those of you who may not experience this as such, it is a physical and mental occupation. The pilots have a very great responsibility on our Scheldt. It's also a physically difficult occupation. A few months ago, I had the honour of crawling down from such a stormy ladder. If we have to do this on a daily basis, ladies and gentlemen, we will know that it is a difficult profession. Minister, I hope you will continue to support our pilots, as you have done so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u39	Questions Nos 3707 by Mrs Fonck and 3816 and 3823 by Mrs Ben Hamou will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u40	We do not see Mr Daerden appearing on the horizon, because he is not here, but Mr De Vriendt.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u41	Today is a fast day, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u42	It's always fast with me. Kwik en monter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u43	Minister, I have some questions about the new report by the Committee on Pension Reform, which also appeared in the press two weeks ago. The new report, and indeed Frank Vandenbroucke's comment, speaks quite harsh, direct and clear language. He says, among other things, that we, I quote, are at risk of going into a bricolage with the major pension reform." However, this pension reform is one of the pillars of your government policy when it comes to pensions. The Commission on Pension Reform is "greatly concerned." There is a lack of coherence and 'there must be a social contract in which a certain pension is promised'. How do you respond to those comments and comments? Can you explain to us the trajectory and timing of the pension reform and assure us that the "brilliant' is stopped and that the overall picture is once again being kept in mind? Is it logical not to introduce the part-time pension and the point system simultaneously, as you said in a comment in the press? When should the social partners decide on the definition of "heavy professions"? We have already discussed this in the context of another oral question. You're transferring that hot potato to the social partners. This is not the first attempt, but it is once again uncertain whether these social partners will come to a clear definition. What will you do or what will the government do if it doesn't? What are the tasks of the Commission on Pension Reform at the moment? The additional new report was recently proposed, but what further opinions are expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u44	Recently, it was reported that there were differences of opinion with the experts of the Committee on Pension Reform 2020-2040. Nothing could be further from the truth. The government has largely been inspired by that committee's report to outline the broad lines of pension reform. There is no doubt that not all the recommendations have been followed, but that was never the intention. The task of an expert is to contextualise, evaluate and formulate proposals. The task of a political officer is to take decisions and take responsibility for one's own choices. Whatever they may say and whatever they may say, I can assure you that the will is there to cooperate intelligently and in a good understanding with the experts of the aforementioned committee. As you yourself say, this committee has recently, at my request, given an additional opinion on the problems of the heavy professions and part-time pensions. At the moment I have not made any other requests to the committee. I have taken note of the Commission's position, which suggests that part-time pensions should be introduced simultaneously with the entry into force of the point system. Secondly, the route and timing of reforms are clearly defined. The consultation takes place with the social partners on raising the legal age of the pension, adapting the conditions for access to the early pension and raising the minimum age to benefit from the survivor's pension in the framework of the consultation committees - ONP Management Committee, General Management Committee for the Social Status of Self-Employed Workers, Negotiating Committee and Committee A. The draft law on the establishment of the National Pensions Committee, the Centre of Expertise and the Academic Council was approved on 29 April in the Social Affairs Committee. The National Pension Committee should therefore be operational in June. As I have said on several occasions, I will give priority to the National Pension Committee to consider the gravity of the professions and the possibility of taking part-time pensions. Before and before the start of the debate on the heavy professions in the National Pension Committee, I will present to the Committee the results of the consultation and negotiation rounds on increasing the statutory retirement age. Furthermore, in line with my commitment to the social partners, I will provide the Committee with all the views expressed during the consultation and negotiation rounds. As far as the discussion of the heavy-duty professions is concerned, it is difficult for me to impose timing on the social partners. The National Pension Committee will also be charged with the following dossiers: the points system, the modernisation of the family dimension of our pension systems and the harmonisation within our three pension systems of taking the diploma into account for the calculation of the statutory pension. In view of what I have just outlined, the programme is clear. It was recently stated in the discussion of the National Pensions Committee. With regard to raising the legal age, the objective to be achieved has been defined. This is a decision that falls within the scope of the policy and it is still necessary to specify the modalities for doing so, which fall within the competence of the consultation and negotiation bodies in place. For longer-term reforms, such as taking into account the length of work and introducing a point system, this is very clearly a matter of social consultation within the National Pensions Committee. Some blame the fact that the consultation within the National Pension Committee is tripartite (vakbonden, werknemers en regering), which they believe would distort it. I do not share this view because I believe that the involvement of the federal authority from the outset of discussions with the social partners is, on the contrary, a guarantee of efficiency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u45	Minister, you have begun to explain that there is no disagreement between the government and the Pension Commission. It almost seems like you're living in another world. The judgments of the members of the Pension Commission were different. They were really critical of the government's work. That is a pity, the pension report of the Pension Committee is a piece of work which can count on broad support. So if there is a gap, Mr President, I am also addressing you between what the government is doing and the opinion of the Pension Commission, then we have a problem. Minister, you note that it has never been agreed that the government should take over the full work of the Pension Commission. That's right. The Pension Commission itself, however, points to the risks posed by cherry picking, because the balance is mixed up if necessary and the overall picture disappears. That remark of bricolage by Frank Vandenbroucke is a total comment. It is not so much a criticism of one of your measures as of your method. Mr President, I would like to address my question to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u46	A hearing with Mr Vandenbroucke is already planned. That was decided at the last committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u47	However, Mr President, my question is different. Could we not introduce a three-monthly, four-monthly or six-monthly route check in committee, drawing up a calendar and getting an overview of what the government has decided in the context of the pension reform? In this way, the committee could watch over the overall picture. A few weeks ago, Frank Vandenbroucke talked about bricolage. Parliament has the task of avoiding this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u48	We can do that. We can take stock of the measures adopted in Parliament. The points approved in the government are, of course, a matter for the government. I and the committee have no control over the royal decrees. Minister, what do you think?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u49	Mr President, the policy note is clear. It was approved by Parliament. It provides for all stages of pension reform. I don't see what's really back in relation to that. The projects come successively before the committee and the parliament. There is no novelty with regard to the programme as it was established in November. We strictly fit into the line that was announced.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u50	A number of parliamentary questions concern the state of play. Just now we were talking about supplementary pensions, the guarantee of return and so on. In this way, we are getting very fragmentary answers to these parliamentary questions. Is it not more useful to review the elements of your pension reform every few months, so that we do not have to ask fragmentary parliamentary questions each time?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u51	Mr De Vriendt, I do not see the added value very well. Every time we come with a project, we re-integrate it into the logic of reform. I do not see why the usual procedures for the operation of commissions would be bypassed. There's no reason. A second Social Affairs Committee is not going to be set up in order, at the same time, to repeat the debates which take place in the official committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u52	Mr Minister, we can deal with this as follows. The draft laws approved in Parliament and the royal decrees issued by the government, of which we are given an overview, can be listed. Then we have a perfect overview of everything that has been approved. Then it is up to the members to check whether this is in accordance with your policy paper and whether everything is being implemented. I understand what you are saying, in the sense that there should be no duplication of effort. The work in our committee is transparent enough to see what is and what is not being done. Mr De Vriendt, if you find deficits, you can ask questions or interpret them. Then you can tell us which promises have not been fulfilled or what is missing. I suggest we act that way. Maybe you see it differently?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u53	Mr President, that could be useful. Perhaps an overview of the issues under discussion with the social partners could be added. At the moment I am thinking of the minimum guarantee of return for supplementary pensions and the heavy professions. The government has passed these matters on to the social partners. Perhaps it would be useful to list these issues as well, with a timing, so that we know by what time the government expects an opinion from the social partners on these delicate issues that are currently being discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u54	Okay. I ask our committee secretary to contact the minister's cabinet so that we can draw up a transparent overview of these three areas, namely draft laws, royal decisions and matters pending at the NAR.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u55	Thank you for that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u56	Mr President, Minister, I am trying to break the record of lack of originality. If plagiarism is a reason to force politicians to resign, then my parliamentary mandate ends here, because I will be playing huge loan to the Ombudsman for pensions, with the sole intention of supporting him in his work. I should also like to congratulate you, Minister, because you seem to have a very good working relationship with the Ombudsman for Pensions. That is the right thing to do, and we certainly want to encourage you to do so. My first question concerns the cumbersome procedures that many pensioners have to struggle through in order to get their pension. This has been demonstrated by the annual report of the Pension Office. The problem of the mixed career, which causes pain points at different times, also reappears here. One has to turn to the various institutions of the respective systems in which one works and apparently no institution can give an overall picture. It is reported that the retired person himself should ensure that information from one institution gets to another. Not only according to the Ombudsman, but also for us, in these times of digitisation, this is a very difficult point that causes frustration and time loss for those involved, as well as delays in the processing of files. It seems obvious that simplified procedures, where the pensioner should only provide information once, can provide quick solutions. Here, of course, the responsibility of the government comes around the corner. Minister, are you planning measures to improve the provision of services, to improve the efficiency of pension records and so on? If so, when will they lead to results?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u57	It is correct that there is currently no unique pension institution where citizens can obtain all the information on their pensions. Wherever possible, pension institutions already use the electronic exchange of data, both among themselves and with other public administrations, for example the FPS Finance. The Crossroads Bank of Social Security plays a key role in this. The first steps for a joint front office were also already taken with common information moments. These are the so-called Pension Points of the RVP, the PDOS and the RSVZ. In order to improve the exchange of data between pension institutions and to meet the only once principle, the three major pension institutions start developing a common pension engine. One of the components of that pension engine is a common database containing all interpreted career data relating to the pension. In addition, in the light of this project, a unique form will be developed for the transmission of the first information after the pension application. Moreover, the merger between the RVP and PDOS, scheduled for 1 January 2016, aims to maximise the pooling of pension competences within an institution that will continue to work together with the RSVZ on common front and back office applications. Finally, the pension institutions are also focusing on the electronic exchange of information with our neighbouring countries with a view to abolishing paper procedures, such as proof of life for pensioners who receive their pensions abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u58	Mr Minister, I hear that a battery of measures is squandering on the stove. I hope it's going to speed up a bit. The announced merger is something that our group is very pleased to hear. It can certainly boost the efficiency of services. We will continue to follow you and give you a round of applause when you are successful.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u59	Minister, this question is a little more specific about the mixed career. The Pensions Ombudsdienst points to a fundamental dishonesty. The evaluation of the years carried out is based on the number of years per system. If you do not meet the conditions of one of the schemes, 30 years for employees and self-employed persons or 20 years for civil servants, you risk falling out of business. That could lead to absurd situations. For example, a person may have worked for eleven years as an official and then for twenty-four years as a self-employed person. Although he has had a career of thirty-five years, he does not qualify for the minimum pension. The Pensions Ombudsdienst therefore proposes to add the years spent from different schemes when determining whether someone is entitled to the minimum pension. This corresponds to the wording of the government agreement, which states: "To increase access to the minimum pension, the government will ensure that, in future, all working or treated days, regardless of the scheme in which they are performed, will give entitlement to a minimum pension, provided that at least a certain number of days are worked or treated throughout the career. The difference between the systems may well raise some technical problems, but what is the timetable within which you intend to implement this passage of the coalition agreement? What would be the minimum for obtaining a minimum pension in the event of a mixed career?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u60	Mr De Roover, in your question you cite an old one with regard to the guaranteed minimum pension. The career conditions linked to the minimum pension do not always take into account any other scheme. I can confirm that it is intended that the thorough reform of the minimum pension mentioned in the government agreement should address the problematic elements of the current minimum pension. During the second half of this year, I will present a proposal on this subject to the government and the social partners. The career condition for entitlement to the minimum pension will be expressed in days and will be the same for all, regardless of whether one has a mixed career or a career in only one system. The careers of all systems will be counted. How many days the career condition will be, is currently the subject of an in-depth study.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u61	Minister, your answer includes all the elements of a good solution. I'm waiting in suspense for what's coming in the second half of this year. We will undoubtedly meet again on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u62	Mr Minister, it seems that civil servants' pensions have not arrived in all areas in the 21st century. The Ombudsdienst gets quite a few complaints that, for example, have to do with the payout of retired officials. In principle, this is done by means of a cheque, although there is a possibility of requesting it by transfer. This seems to be preceded by a very complex procedure, and of course the principle of payment by cheque can be described as completely obsolete today. It would also increase the impression that our pension system is modernising and that payments are also being made in a contemporary way. For employees and self-employed persons it is already done by transfer, so that is where the step has already been taken. Here again it is a synchronization of the various systems. Not only does it have an advantage for the person concerned, it also facilitates subsequent steps in the development of the systems. Do you foresee a change to payout by bank transfer? What time frame is there for that? To what extent will this step benefit the synchronisation of systems?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u63	As you will be aware, the Belgian pension landscape currently has two main players in the payment of pensions, the National Pensions Service and the Public Pensions Service. The RVP manages the payout of wage-earners and the pensions of the self-employed, while the PDOS is responsible for the payment of the majority of public sector pensions. The payout procedures differ due to historical reasons related to the differences in legislation applicable to these payout procedures. I plan a merger between the RVP and PDOS and in 2018-2019 I plan to integrate the payout of pensions in the public sector into the unique payment that already exists for wage-earners and the self-employed. The unique payment will eliminate all the differences between the methods of payment that still exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u64	Mr Minister, also with a view to the merger, I think it would be helpful for the new institution if it did not have to follow a different pay-out regime according to the previous system that applied to a rightholder before. You indicate 2018 as the time horizon. If there is still any possibility of doing the part a little faster, I do not think that you should let go of that effort. It seems to me that it can be done even faster for that little part.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u65	Mr President, I had introduced questions for both Mr Bacquelaine as Minister of Pensions and Mrs De Block, Minister of Health, since their powers are interspersed. If I understand correctly, you will answer for both, minister. This will ensure consistency of responses. It is not as a Member of Parliament to follow the Defence files assiduously that I question you, but rather as a Member concerned with the health and compensation of workers. In this case, they are members with physical or mental health problems related to the exercise of their profession. I was thus called upon by many military personnel who complained of certain malfunctions in contradiction with the intentions contained in the texts regulating several procedures. That's why I'm asking you. The PSSS Military Reparation Pension Board is approached by a member who wishes to raise health concerns arising from the exercise of his profession. He then submits his file via a medical expert of his choice to this Commission. Secondly, the question is on what basis and in what way the Commissioner-Rapporteur in charge of this case will identify the pathologies which he will consider to be to be assessed by the Medical Legal Office (OML) of the Medex. Let's note he's not a doctor. Minister, would you like to answer all my questions at one time?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u66	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u67	In this way, I will be able to bring together the various elements. I come back to the Commissioner-Rapporteur. He then sends the field to the LMO which will be able to be examined. If I understand correctly, when the expert examines the member, he will not be able to leave this demarcated field. In other words, if the patient complains about several pathologies, but the Commissioner-Rapporteur has selected only one and the expert notes other problems, the latter will not be able to take them into account. As a result, the member will have to file several files. This seems disturbing since it is not on the basis of medical examinations that this field prescription is made. I would therefore like to know how this requirement could be explained. Furthermore, doctors approved by the OML must normally be included in a list published in the Monitor. This list is apparently not up-to-date, and doctors would exercise without being mentioned. Is it legal? Why is this list not up to date? These doctors are receiving the military. I am told that, in practice, the consultation takes fifteen minutes, regardless of the number of pathologies. The expert doctor will have to determine, based on the famous BOBI scale, the pathologies and the disability rate that corresponds to the pathologies chosen, by eliminating the pathologies that may be linked to elements outside the service. Fifteen minutes doesn't seem like much. Is this rule established? If so, where is it defined? Is that a habit? If so, what is the reason? The results and the disability rate reached by the doctor must of course be scientifically motivated. In the documents I had the opportunity to read, these motivations were not really present. Secondly, the expertise is sent to the Commission of First Instance, which then reports to the member the recognized pathologies and the disability rate granted. What disturbed me in the examination of the files that I was able to consult, except for the medical elements, was that, within the Forensic Office, the Director or Deputy Head, Mr. Van Roy, must sign and validate all decisions. He has the authority to delegate the signature and file review to a director physician. However, in the first instance, it is systematically the Dutch-speaking official physician, Mr.Huyghebaert, who affixes his signature and, on appeal, it is systematically the French-speaking supervisor physician, Mr.Pironet. On what basis has this distribution been made? Does it have a legal basis? More surprisingly, some appeal decisions are signed by delegation. However, the signature is not identifiable. Again, is it legal? Is it normal that there is no more involvement in the lead in the follow-up of cases? On the other hand, it appears that the member does not have access to the elements of his file, nor does his general practitioner. When the Commissioner-Rapporteur receives the medical expertise file, he shall define the scope to be examined by the Forensic Office. Once the file is processed, these elements are destroyed. Are they really destroyed or are they told to the doctor or member that we don't have them? This will determine the further processing of the file. It appears that the Medical Legal Office retains the medical data and the examination and expertise of the member. However, neither the member nor the general practitioner is informed of the contents of the data. Is it not contrary to the right of patients to have access to their personal data and, above all, to those which will justify a decision concerning them as to the disability rate and the pathologies which are taken into account? In some cases that I have seen, the negotiation between the member and the forensic expert leading to a recognized disability rate is changed when this file is forwarded to the reparation board. On occasion, I found that this rate had been changed without any reasoned written explanation and without any information being provided to the members. Minister, is such a practice legal? If so, on what basis? I come to another particularly challenging point. Where there is disagreement between the member's expert physician and the medical expert of the Forensic Office, it is possible to use the sapitators. These should be included in an approved list, which is not the case. One of the reasons put forward, to which Mrs Onkelinx referred when she was a minister, in connection with a question put to her two or three years ago, is that the scales for medical examinations range from 70 to 75 euros, if I understand correctly. Doctors consider that these amounts are insufficient, and visits which should normally be carried out by sapitators – who are normally approved doctors and who, in doing so, apply the legal scale – are actually carried out by voluntary doctors who apply free scales involving fees of up to €2,000, or even €2,500, charged by the member. It should be noted that the intervention of the sapitator doctor avoids recourse to an appeal procedure. In the current situation, the situation is particularly challenging as the costs of visiting the physician are borne by the member. As I have told you, decisions have been changed without any reasons. However, they are obliged to appeal or to pay 2,000 or even 2,500 euros for the processing of their files, while a procedure has been put in place to ensure that their rights are respected. In view of the above, would it not be necessary to enforce the devices and, where appropriate, to adapt them if they proved impossible to apply? Is it for budgetary reasons? I have consulted the budget adjustment and have seen a decrease in the budget allocated to repair pensions between 2014 and 2015. If that is the reason, we must be able to assume that the rights of certain individuals are no longer respected. A final question concerns the application of the Act of 16 June 1998 which is intended to replace the Royal Decree of 1992, which was repealed. This law of 16 June 1998 is normally more advantageous for the reimbursement of medical care by the National Institute of War Invalids (INIG) for disabled military personnel in peacetime as wartime. However, the 1998 Act is not applied to all. What are the reasons for this? I also put a written question to you to get figures on the number of people, the budgets and the time frame within which the files are processed. It is important to realize what this really represents. My concern is whether there is a way of working that would not comply with the established provisions or that would show faults or failures. If so, how can things be improved so that they have what they are entitled to? This also applies to military personnel who are now deployed in operations in Iraq, Afghanistan or Libya where they may be exposed to new pathologies or accidents. The mechanism in place does not seem to me to be effective in ensuring the monitoring and compensation of these military personnel.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u68	Mr. Chairman, this question came to my office at the end of the day on Monday. I'm going to answer that with respect to the PPSIS. For the rest, it would require a long debate, perhaps a day or two! We will probably be able to schedule this soon. This is essentially within the competence of the Office of Forensics.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u69	That's why I had divided the questions between the Minister of Health and you, knowing that the Minister of Health would have time to prepare her answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u70	In my view, it would be more effective to respond in writing given the number of questions and clarifications requested. I do not see how these questions can be fully answered within a reasonable time. Having said that, I agree with you that there are problems and procedures could be improved overall. The procedure initiated by the SdPSP begins with the examination of the admissibility of the claim for compensation. This is provided for by the legal provisions, namely article 19 of the decree of the Regent of 5 October 1948 approving the text of the coordinated laws on reparation pensions. If the application is admissible, the SdPSP then initiates the medical procedure with the OML and the duration of the medical examination is in fact the exclusive competence of the Office. The expert doctor is obliged to stick to the mission drawn up by the Commissioner-Rapporteur, who does not have any medical expertise. However, in view of the legal provisions currently in force, it is the Commissioner-Rapporteur who is responsible for determining, on the basis of the elements of the file, whether a condition has occurred during and by virtue of the service. The expert doctor cannot therefore take the initiative to propose a disability for a condition which would not have been recognised by the Commissioner-Rapporteur as occurring during and by virtue of the service. Each applicant has the right to consult his/her file with the PPSSO. This may be done within 30 days before the person concerned's appearance before the Commission, in accordance with Article 3(2) of the Regent's Order of 15 June 1949 determining the procedure before the Reparation Pension Board. All elements of the file are, in all cases, retained and each applicant may, if he or she so wishes, obtain a copy of the medical expert's report on request from the LMO. The LMO also maintains all reports of medical expertise. Each applicant may at any time submit an application for revision for aggravation of a pathology which has already been recognized pursuant to Article 37 of the Regent's Order of 5 October 1948 approving the text of the coordinated laws on reparation pensions. Reparation pensions are not covered by the Social Insurance Charter. Nevertheless, the PPSSO follows as closely as possible the time limits set out in the Charter, as soon as it is in possession of all the elements necessary for decision-making. The Royal Decree of 7 July 1992 was repealed by Article 7 of the Act of 16 June 1998. It shall, however, remain applicable to injurious acts which occurred before 1 August 1998. In fact, the provisions of the Royal Decree of 7 July 1992 are slightly more advantageous than those of the Act of 16 June 1998. However, they were applicable only to members of a Belgian contingent participating in operations necessary for the maintenance or restoration of international peace and security, in accordance with a United Nations resolution and following a decision of the Belgian Government. The scope of the Act of 16 June 1998 is more general in the sense that it also applies to military personnel who have suffered physical harm during an action outside the national territory. The other questions you ask fall within the competence of the LMO. You need to ask the question, written or oral, to the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health to have a more precise answer than the elements I have been able to give you today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u71	Minister, I also introduced them to the Minister of Health. Should I reintroduce them or will the services transfer them? I'm going to examine this with them. These responses will not necessarily require detailed research. The type of response you give me, even if it may be more specific on some points, meets my concern: the mechanism put in place may experience unforeseen failures or consequences. I'm not sure it's necessary to go through a written question. If there are any elements in the answer you want to go through, I can write a written question again so that you can go further. However, with regard to the information you have provided, I find it disturbing that the Commissioner-Rapporteur has the capacity to limit the scope of investigation, and that it is not possible for the medical expert to go beyond this, even if he finds other pathologies. This is prohibited and the member is obliged to re-introduce another file. I can understand that there is a will to separate the nature of the experts but I find that the exclusive limitation of the field is a real problem. It does appear that the Medical Legal Office keeps the medical records. According to my information, the element that limits the scope of investigation is not accessible to the military via the repair commission. I therefore invite you to carry out checks because malfunctions may exist. You say that a review is still possible, of course, but it requires a new file to be re-introduced at a time when if the entire system worked well, especially with the sapitators, it would be possible to shorten the procedures, to put the people concerned around the table and to achieve compensation. Minister, I invite you to pay attention to this matter. I will introduce new written questions in the event that certain elements are not included in your or Mrs De Block's answer. I have also sent you a written question for the purpose of obtaining encrypted data.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u72	Minister, the survivor's pension can be combined with different forms of social benefits for 12 months, such as unemployment benefits. In 2013, the list of benefits that can be combined was extended to benefits for career breaks, time credits and reduced benefits. However, I have been informed that there is a different timing for the entry into force of the RVA and the RVP. The RVP takes 2013 and the RVA takes 2014 as its starting point. Does that have any consequences? Or is it wrong information? What are the respective timings? What timing are people under? How many people were eligible for the cumulation in 2013 and 2014? Do you have eyes on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u73	I'll answer that. It's not easy. Anyone who has been receiving a benefit for career breaks, time credits or reduced benefits since 1 January 2013 and who wants to combine them with a survivor's pension for a maximum period of 12 months can only do so since 1 July 2014. After all, it is only from that date that the RVA regulation permits it. It's not possible to figure out how many people we're talking about. The RVP cannot know from each recipient of a survivor's pension whether a payment for time credit is intended to be combined with the survivor's pension. Although this information may be found in a number of files, it is not recorded in the RVP databases. The same applies to the RVA. It is therefore not possible to calculate a budgetary impact for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u74	Minister, the answer surprises me somewhat. According to one law, one is entitled to a lump sum with a benefit from 1 January 2013, but because the government that has decided to do so fails, one cannot get that benefit. So we must now launch a major appeal to the people who had expected that accumulation to subpoena the State, because their own regulations were not applied because of lateness at the RVA. Is that what I'm supposed to distract from?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u75	I have no control over the regulation of the ONEM, but it has been somewhat delayed from the passing of the law. At least that's what I'm deducing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u76	I thought the government was one and indivisible in its decisions, like a ship's college. How can that be remediated? I can't just shake that out of my sleeve. I was hoping you'd say it was an oblivion that has been corrected in the meantime. I would therefore like to ask you how this can be corrected, possibly with retroactive effect. It is totally unacceptable if the cause lies in another administration, which is failing. It is important to keep a close eye on the coordination of administrations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u77	Mr. President, may I respond?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u78	I would like to reach a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u79	That's the point. I do think we need to find a solution. I will discuss with my colleague Kris Peeters how we can, together, find a solution to this problem. I may return live to you on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u80	Your vous and remerce.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u81	Mr President, Minister, my first question on frontier work relates to the transitional or transitional arrangements affecting frontier workers. One of the pension supplement measures approved in the Chamber is that they can be paid from the Belgian pension system only if the foreign statutory pension can actually be granted for the same activity. Let me illustrate this as follows. If a frontier worker is dismissed abroad at the age of 60 but the statutory pension is only possible from 66 years old, as in the Netherlands, the person concerned will therefore end up in a vacuum between 65 and 66th. If necessary, he could receive unemployment benefit during the period during which he could still be employed here, but not after that. Minister, what happens when someone is faced with an age limit for pensions higher than the age limit in our country? What income can the persons concerned count on in the period between the Belgian and Dutch retirement ages? What if the person becomes disabled or disabled? Are there any other countries besides the Netherlands with which this problem arises? Can you make an estimate on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u82	Mr President, Mrs Becq, one of the main objectives of the various reforms of the pension complement for frontier work was that Belgium would no longer pay for foreign pension reforms. The raising of the retirement age in the Netherlands is an example of this. When the person in your example reaches the statutory retirement age of 65 years, he will first and foremost be entitled to the pension rights he has acquired in Belgium. In addition, the National Pensions Office will check for him whether he is entitled to an income guarantee for the elderly, taking into account all pensions and livelihoods. A person who becomes disabled or disabled before the age of 65 receives a benefit which, as in the case of unemployment, can be paid up to the age of 65. When the person concerned becomes 65 years of age, it will also be checked whether he/she is entitled to an IGO, or, for example, to a grant for assistance to the elderly. The latter has been a regional competence since 1 July 2014. The situation described by you mainly occurs in the case of a significantly longer employment in a neighbouring country where the retirement age is higher than in Belgium. Given the number of frontier workers in the Netherlands, most of the files will be those with employment in the Netherlands. This situation may also arise with Germany. I confirm that your interpretation of Amendment No. 28 of the Programme Act of 19 December 2014 is correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u83	So, Minister, we can only fall back on the IGO between 65 and the age of the pension. Mr President, as far as my second question is concerned, I would like it to be dealt with separately in the report because there is some confusion in this area. I am receiving telephone calls from frontier workers who are faced with the problem of the new regulation. According to the amendment we have adopted to the legislation on frontier work, those who reach the age of 65 before 1 December 2015 can benefit from a transitional measure. However, there is mainly confusion as to whether or not the persons concerned should apply for their pension. I am told by frontier workers that they would like to work a little longer, until after 1 December 2015. However, they wonder whether they will lose all their rights. I understood that we had just tabled this amendment, firstly, to provide for the possibility that those people would have had that transitional period and, secondly, to provide some sort of click system to give those who could have retired but did not, that possibility. It is mainly that interpretation on which questions have been asked. Yesterday or the day before yesterday I received an e-mail from someone who says he does not understand the RVP and that he finds different information on different websites. The Minister's word is very important in this matter and, if necessary, there should be a directive on this matter. Could you perhaps repeat that my interpretation is the right one?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u84	I think your interpretation is correct. I will ask the experts in my office to repeat this point and to contact you on this matter. Secondly, I will send a further reply to the secretariat of the committee so that it can be sent to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u85	Mr Minister, my questions may be a bit technical, but apparently there are sometimes difficulties in interpretation. A while ago, I asked a question about the termination, farewell and dismissal allowances that the Royal Decree of 28 May 2013 regards as remuneration, starting this year. As a result, these allowances would be evenly spread over the duration of the notice period, which could lead to the issue of exceeding the income limits for the accumulated authorised work at the time of retirement. Apparently, there is still discussion as to whether a voluntary departure fee without notice, a golden handshake, may or may not be included. One would like an explicit clarification of the interpretation. In fact, the RVP would interpret it in such a way that a golden handshake is covered by that regime of distribution. Is that right? To what extent is that interpretation currently practicable? Is there still a need for technical regulation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u86	According to the Royal Decree of 28 May 2013, the cancellation, farewell and dismissal allowances and any benefit as such are part of the concept of professional income. That arrangement shall apply from 1 January 2015. Such fees shall be deemed to be evenly spread over the duration of the notice period. According to the Royal Decree, therefore, the administrative practice of the RVP is terminated in which farewells, dismissals or any benefit in force as such could be combined with an unlimited pension. The golden handshake is also covered by this arrangement. If, in practice, the RVP finds that the employer pays additional fees in addition to the minimum notice period or termination fee, e.g. a golden handshake or a pre-departure premium, these additional allowances are taken into account as a professional income. These fees shall be spread over the minimum notice period. If such a spread is not possible, e.g. in the event of termination of a contract of employment by mutual agreement and without notice, the premium is not taken into account as a professional income.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u87	I believe that this is a clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic160x.u88	An interesting clarification.
