ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u1	As agreed earlier, the next item is questions Nos 7258 by Mrs Lalieux, 7896 by Mr De Vriendt and 7929 by Mrs Monica De Coninck.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u2	Mr President, we decided that we would have a debate. The Secretary of State comes to committee to make a statement outside the agenda! We have the right to react. You are playing the watch and you are not giving the floor to Parliament!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u3	No, not at all!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u4	So we should've interrupted Mr. Franken! You must give the floor to parliamentarians. The minister spoke on a matter that is not on the agenda. You must give parliamentarians the right to speak! That's not right!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u5	Mr President, the rules for a topical and urgent debate are laid down in our Rules of Procedure and imply that those who have actually tabled questions on the subject, such as Mr. De Vriendt or Mrs De Coninck, may be speakers and each political group may also intervene within a given time limit. That's the way you imagine it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u6	That's my goal. We can indeed bring them together in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that we can have a topical debate because questions are being asked on the same subject as the topical debate. I didn't mean to separate the questions, but also the questions on the same subject...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u7	There's no question of getting angry. It is simply a matter of respect for both parties. The government is coming to make a communication on a topical issue. I am sorry, but all groups in Parliament must have the opportunity to react and ask questions to the members of the government. It was not on the agenda. The Secretary of State made a communication on his own initiative. It is quite normal, if we accept this communication, that parliamentarians should be able to speak to him in turn. It is the rules that must prevail in the House.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u8	Mr Kir, I refer to Rules 125 and 128 of the Rules of Procedure, which provide that a supplement can be made and that you can respond to the questions because it was decided here to have a topical debate. The rules are laid down in the Rules of Procedure. The debate is therefore without object for me, it is only a procedure to initiate the topical and urgent debate. By the way, the questions were put by members of the opposition. I am sure they will take advantage of the current situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u9	Mr Kir, I think the arrangements are very clear. You say the government gave a press conference. I came to this committee and, following a draft law on accelerated asylum procedures, I said something about reception and topicality. I believe that it is still my right, as Secretary of State, to say what I want as a result of a draft law. That's okay, right? By the way, you also have your right to speak. There hasn't been a press conference. I believe that I always treat Parliament very correctly, or at least I try to do so. I am always on time, I am always at Parliament's disposal and will remain so. I'll tell you why. I always had a very strong parliamentary reflex myself when I was a Member of Parliament. I don't know what you're getting at. There has been no press conference and no secret agreements have been made in back rooms; that is not the case. I come to Parliament and, following a draft law on the asylum procedure, I have given a statement on topicality, which is still my right, I think. There will now be a topical debate in which your group will also be able to give its opinion. I honestly don't see what the problem is. My experience is that parliamentary democracy has so far been handled very correctly in this committee. I hope to be able to keep it that way, and I will see to it that I can speak to you on behalf of the government if you have any questions. So I don't really understand the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u10	I would like to respond briefly to Mr Franken's remarks. The first item on the agenda was the amendment of the draft law on access, residence and removal of aliens from the territory. You have decided on your own initiative to make a communication on a topical issue. Parliament holds debates on topical issues on Thursday afternoon. You have decided on your own initiative to raise this issue. It is therefore quite normal that if we, members of this Committee on the Interior, agree to listen to you, we can also speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u11	Mrs Lalieux is not present to ask her question No 7258. Mr De Vriendt, I am the first to give you the floor. Mrs De Coninck will then be given the floor. I refer once again to the Rules of Procedure which state that speaking time for each questioner in the topical and urgent debate shall not be two minutes, after which the Government shall have five minutes to reply. One speaker per group is allowed, in addition to your possible explanations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u12	Mr President, the procedure is a mess. Mr Secretary of State, of course you have the right to raise all kinds of issues. Perhaps you should have reserved that for your answer to the questions on the subject. However, that is a detail. The most important thing is that we can talk about the content. My question is more general about the registration problems at the Foreign Affairs Office. I submitted that question last week. My final question was about the possibility of the Belgian State being subpoenaed. After all, that subpoena was on its way. We rose this morning with the effective news that the subpoena has become reality. This is a minor refugee from Afghanistan, who was obliged by the Foreign Office to wander around Brussels for more than two weeks because he was refused a place to sleep. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a minor. In the beginning, there were the statements by Theo Francken, who indicated that it was not about vulnerable refugees or about minors. However, this is about children. Mr Secretary of State, I have just heard you say something that I have also read in the press, namely that you still have to take note of the judgment. I trust you will do so very soon. For us, the judgment is very clear. The judgment is not about the right of asylum for everyone. The judgment does not stipulate that every refugee who is due to be here should be able to stay here. Colleagues, the judgment simply states that anyone who is a refugee is entitled to a place of rest during his procedure. It doesn't determine more or less than that. If, at the end of the procedure, the verdict falls and the person concerned has to leave our country, then so be it. We have no problem with that fact in itself. The rules are the rules. However, the subpoena was on its way. Fortunately, justice and justice are doing their job, which we cannot say about the government. The court guards the line of basic humanity, namely that every refugee from the conflict zone is entitled to bed, bath and bread. It has come a long way that a war fugitive in this country apparently has to go to court to get a place to sleep, but that is the reality we are seeing today. The government reaps what it has sown. You're trying to hold on to the idea that this government is doing so much better than any of the previous ones. You yourself said that you could be tested on the question of whether refugees should sleep on the streets in Brussels. Well, that is the case. It's been the case for a long time. It's been going on for weeks, even months. What are you waiting for? Are you really waiting for these periodic penalty payments? Do you really want to pay money? Your answer to that is no, but it will be the result, of course, if you continue to fail and continue to refuse to give those people a place to sleep. In all these months, during the search for new office buildings, why did you not ensure that sleep containers were placed in Brussels to expand pre-care? I also realize it's not that easy, but months ago there was a tent camp in the Maximilian Park. Why weren't sleep containers put there to expand pre-care and give everyone a basic human shelter? The situation has been getting out of hand for weeks and I fear, ladies and gentlemen, that the government is using the lack of sleeping accommodation as a deterrent. It's a deliberate policy. One does not give every refugee a place to sleep, because one hopes to scare refugees to come to Belgium. That's what's going on. I refer to the letter to the Iraqis and the story about the Afghan minor, who is not advised to come to our country. That's what's going on. It has been for months, but now the Justice Department intervenes. Rightly so, because it is more than necessary. Tomorrow is Human Rights Day. Today we stand up with the news that our country is failing to meet the basic duty to give refugees a place to sleep. Tomorrow is Human Rights Day. I hope, Mr Secretary of State, that you will come forward with an urgent emergency plan by tomorrow, so that we do not have to pay periodic penalty payments effectively and have everyone's right to a place on top of a roof.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u13	Mr Secretary of State, last week I asked you a question about queues and, above all, about the treatment of the people in those queues. I do not stand there every day, just to be clear, but I get reports that people there have to wait 17 days before being heard. I also get reports of improper behaviour by the police towards those people. I also receive reports from Albanian families with small children who are no longer even given priority. I also get messages from potential recruiters, people with bad intentions who approach the waiters in that row, and they are recruiters for prostitution, homemeling and undeclared work. I propose that an audit be carried out around that, that there should be some sort of control. My proposal is to call in the federal ombud service on this. I come to a second element. You say that there is a humanitarian crisis and that we have never seen anything like it. I would like to remind you that during the years 2000 and 2001, we were faced with 2 000 recognised refugees. I do not want to minimize today's situation with that comparison. I have also said a few times to the public and also in this committee that a lot of work has already been done. We have indeed reported that the last few weeks have been problematic and that bed, bath and bread could no longer be guaranteed. Now we are faced with that conviction. In this context, I would like to say that on 4 May 2011, MP Sarah Smeyers sent a press article to report that a penalty payment was scandalous, could not be accepted and that it created a suction effect. I suspect you haven't changed your mind, but you're in the same boat today. You say that we can solve the crisis only if all the governments, but also all the people of good will in this country, put their shoulder to it together. I agree with that. The distribution plan was approved by the government a week and a half ago. I'm okay with that. At the last committee meeting, I called for this to be carried out as quickly as possible and to communicate and consult with local authorities in an open and transparent manner. Many local authorities are asking for this. Like me, you have heard that certain local authorities have information and others do not. You plan to implement the distribution plan only by 1 April 2016, if you implement it more quickly, you will have more capacity to solve problems in those queues and avoid having to pay 125 euros a day. I'm gonna make a call to get it done. Creating delays is either bad governance, or it's even worse. In this way people are consciously given the impression that in Belgium people are not being treated properly at all and therefore they should not come here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u14	All political groups are now given the floor in the usual order, starting with Mrs Smeyers. Each group shall have a maximum of two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u15	Mr De Vriendt, I really do not understand your statement that the government will fall apart. I believe that the government has made every effort to avoid this situation. We've known the situation very well since 2010. At that time, periodic penalty payments were also paid. At that time Belgium was also sentenced to periodic penalty payments, but the situation was quite different. There was no pre-care then, and there was no worldwide refugee crisis. The influx was not of that nature that is now known. I therefore believe that you are wrongly accusing this federal government of negligence. Pre-conception is unseen. It is the first time that a State Secretary decides on pre-care, precisely in order to avoid that financial support in this case should be paid to an asylum seeker in the form of a periodic penalty payment. This, of course, creates a suction effect. It not only creates a suction effect, it also undermines public support for asylum seekers. That's what we've had so far. I believe that there was still social support for the provision of bed, bath and bread, material reception for asylum seekers. I believe that the majority of political parties and public opinion still supported this. Mr De Vriendt, a long time ago, when your party was in the government, financial aid was paid to asylum seekers. That is something that is rightly being avoided. Mr Secretary of State, the separation of powers does not allow us to intervene in that judgment. Of course, you have all the legal remedies at your disposal, and I believe that you may be able to make a third-party appeal against that decision. You will not let that happen, just because this correct and correct policy on the asylum crisis must not be undermined by the penalty payment. We have to respect that statement, but that does not mean that we have to understand that strange attitude to the geopolitical situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u16	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the decision just taken reflects the failure of your current policy. It reminds you of your primary mission, which is to protect asylum seekers, moreover when they are minors. The policy you have been pursuing since the beginning of the legislature is clear. First, you have closed down structural squares. In a second phase, you have multiplied communications to countries of origin. Recently, you spoke to the Iraqis: "Above all, don't come to Belgium!" Previously, it was the Albanians, Kosovars, Moroccans and others. You've cut budgets. And then, today, you take measures. You gave us an explanation earlier. It was pretty funny. You gave the impression that you were a victim of Belgian justice as you were doing a comprehensive job, responding to all the requests, that all the measures had been taken and that the 30,000 places were open. That's not true. These seats are not open. They are under construction. They will be open by 2016. What I would like to say here too, Mr Secretary of State, is: at what cost are seats opened? It is not an initiative that Mr Franken opens the doors. That's because there was Maximilian Park. There was a mobilization of the Belgian people, who were tired of seeing people on the street. This has changed public opinion on the issue. People asked the government to move. You're saying you've taken steps. No. It was because there was a catastrophic picture of Belgium, for the Belgians first, but also abroad, which provoked reactions. I welcome these measures. You have asked all the municipalities (there are 589) to help. Being a mayor, I will. Because solidarity, in this case, must be a matter for everyone. Everyone must contribute to the protection of those living in war and distress. The decision taken by the Labour Court devotes one thing. It makes it very clear that you have an obligation to house people, even if they have not previously applied to the Foreign Office. Of course, some, and you first, are trying to limit the entry of the Foreign Office. But justice today reminds you of your responsibility as protector of asylum seekers. You are not there to make communications so that people do not come to Belgium, but you have a responsibility to help, to protect people in difficulty. Mr Secretary of State, what measures are you going to take for all those who are in the same situation as this young Afghan, for asylum seekers who are in the same situation, who have not been able to move to the Foreign Office since you have limited the daily reception to 250, and who are going to bring appeals before our courts and tribunals?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u17	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, we do not yet know the arrangements for the judgment of the Labour Court. It would be interesting to know the substance of the case before taking further action and to give an opinion on this particular case. Since he is a minor, the status of the person concerned may have influenced the arrangements of this decision. In any event, I cannot agree with some of the interventions regarding the government's lack of responsibilities. On the contrary, Mr. Kir! Do not redo the history of reception policies in our country! I would just say that this government has taken all the necessary steps: I would remind you that we have increased from 17 000 to 31 000, and that new arrangements are still going to be put in place. You talked about Maximilian Park and citizen engagement. In this area, public opinion is often changing according to current events. Unfortunately, the commitment that had been made at the outset has been volatile for many of the participants. The government said there would be no penalty payments to pay. And I think it's an excellent thing. We must ensure that these people's demands are met within a certain framework, with concrete measures, and that we do not return to the situation we have experienced in the past, where the former Government has been forced to pay many periodic payments without ever settling the situation of migrants coming to our country for political reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u18	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, you know that we not only have a moral duty to welcome people fleeing war and violence; we also have a legal duty to do so through the Geneva Convention and through the Reception Directive, which oblige us to take asylum seekers. That convention and that directive, as well as the judgment that has now been delivered, confirm that people who say they will apply for asylum are considered asylum seekers. It is not up to the asylum seekers whether or not they are registered for this purpose, especially if it is established that they cannot be registered, for example, because DVZ itself indicates that it is not able to register. They have indicated that they are applying for asylum. It is also true that we are dealing with an exceptional situation. There are exceptionally many asylum seekers. The situation for 2015 is that there are so far 31 000 asylum seekers. By the end of 2015, we may reach some 40 000 asylum applications. However, has such a situation never occurred in our history? No, Mr Secretary of State, we also knew this situation in the year 2000. At that time we had 43 000 people to receive. However, I would like to point out that we have to note that the number is more than double in 2014. However, compare it with the situation in other countries. Sweden, for example, now has about 190 000 refugees. Sweden is a country of the same size in terms of population as our country. However, it has 190 000 refugees. So I do understand the exceptional situation. We are lucky, however, that we are not yet talking about figures of the same order of magnitude as the figures for Sweden or Germany. Those are different numbers. What are we supposed to do now? Of course, more staff should be provided and DVZ should be given the opportunity to make more registrations. For the sake of clarity, I would point out that the government has never decided to impose a limit of 250 registrations. That has been your decision and not a government decision. You've been given everything you've asked the government to do. You asked for more staff and a plan for more places. You got them. I am also convinced that if you go to the government on Friday or at any other time, to ask for additional resources for shelter and staff, in order to effectively address the problem, the government will support you. It has to be done. In fact, we would prefer to see pre-care become redundant in the long term. However, I realise that it will still be necessary in the short term. There are now 1 120 places in the pre-care centre. This number may be increased to 1 300 places in the short term. It's already been decided. However, we will need more places in pre-care in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u19	Mrs. Lanjri, would you please finish?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u20	You have just said that you will provide 3 000 places. Okay, will they also serve for pre-care? Finally, it is important that you take care of the distribution plan so that the municipal authorities know as soon as possible what they are up to. Why hasn't the letter been sent yet? I welcome your saying: I want to pay zero euro fines. But let it also be your objective, Mr Secretary of State, to get zero convictions from now on. I haven't heard you say that. It would be wrong to act alone whenever there is a conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u21	Mrs. Lanjri, would you like to end your speech?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u22	Mr Secretary of State, it is important to take this warning seriously and now to try not to get a conviction but to provide shelter to everyone, and to examine as soon as possible whether a person is allowed to stay in the country or not, because he is not an asylum seeker. Then so do we.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u23	Mr Secretary of State, for our group, I can only say in this debate that we support the principles that you put forward this morning. We rely on the principle that we confine ourselves to bed-bath bread. You also said this morning that no penalty payment will be paid in this particular case, but that you choose to take care of the person concerned effectively. We will not comment on this at the moment. We agree with that principle. As the MR has already reported, we want to look at the court ruling first. We live here in the rule of law, with the separation of powers. Parliament or the government will have to consider whether further initiatives are needed after this ruling in order to avoid a snowball effect. However, as far as your principles are concerned, we can only say that we support them. The government is indeed doing what it has to do. The situation is very exceptional, not just in our country, by the way. Everyone must take responsibility for this. That's been said. Firstly, people in the field assume the greatest responsibility. All due respect for the hard work they do every day. They do almost the impossible, you know better than we do. The center cities have now sent a press release which clearly shows that everyone is willing to contribute to this dossier. We are absolutely in favour of burden-sharing. You have obtained from the government that the distribution plan has been effectively approved. In this sense, we can fully support your policy in this area. Do you know of any other ongoing procedures? I understand that you do not want to go into this procedure because you have not yet been officially informed, but can you tell us if there are any procedures still in place?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u24	Secretary of State, from the beginning, we say that the government is dragging its feet on the pre-reception file. It took the intervention of the Prime Minister to finally, a few months ago, be created in the WTC, at first, a few hundred pre-reception places, the situation having become purely unsustainable. It took many actors to mobilize to finally find it appropriate for the government to create a few places. You have always considered, as you said in committee, that it was basically a favor to these "pre-applicants" of asylum. You do not do them a favor, because they have the right to live in dignified conditions when they come to our territory to seek asylum. You have always wanted to consider 250 requests a day to be sufficient and not more acceptable. Why? While several other European countries are experiencing the same influx as we do and sometimes have several thousand daily demands. It would be enough to increase the means. Decentralisation has often been mentioned by setting up branches in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels. From now on, a stop puts you at the foot of the wall. You say you won't pay. But you'll have to do it. Either you pay or you create seats. There is no intermediate solution. It is true that the judgment is special but it gives a guideline by stipulating that Belgium is under an obligation to organise a dignified pre-reception. It's not a favor on your part!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u25	Mr President, honourable Members, we are currently facing the biggest refugee crisis since the Second World War. It is important to keep an adequate eye on the context. Fortunately, a number of Members have mentioned this. There are currently over 60 million refugees worldwide and that is the highest number since the Second World War. This refugee crisis is not a Belgian or European problem, but a global problem. That is my first point. Secondly, many countries face reception challenges: Germany, Sweden, the Netherlands, France, Austria and Belgium. This government spends a lot of energy, time, resources and investment in creating extra places. From a network of 17 000 reception points in July, we are going to a network with more than 30 000 places at the moment, Mr Kir. Those are not announced places, but places where people are currently staying and have a bed. More than 30 000 people currently have a bed. Not next year, but right now. That is a very strong increase in a few months' time. We're gonna keep up the momentum. We will continue to create shelters; we will continue to do so. On Friday, I will present to the Council of Ministers a new package with additional reception places in the country, about 3 000. The government has decided to recruit additional personnel to transfer the files. More than 120 employees were recruited for the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. This is a very substantial increase if it is known that in July it still had about 300 employees. An increase of 120 persons is therefore substantial. A total of some 80 people have been added to the DVZ to strengthen asylum services. Meanwhile hundreds of people have been recruited by NGOs like Croix Rouge/Red Cross and also by Fedasil. Every day, as you know, people are recruited, either at the headquarters in Brussels or in the asylum centres, to try to guide those arriving here properly. I think I can say that we are doing this in a good way. I can also say that I am very determined to continue on that momentum. Once again, we will only be able to tackle this biggest humanitarian crisis since the Second World War if we all do it together, if we put our hands on it together. Is everything going perfectly? No. Has a wheel ever run off? Yeah, I admit it. Are we doing everything in our power to take steps forward? Absolutely! That's my commitment. That's the Prime Minister's commitment. That is also the commitment of this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u26	Mr Secretary of State, you gave a nice general statement, but you did not answer the precise questions that were asked. It looked more like a press conference than a parliamentary debate. In the meantime, Mr Francken, I read on the social media that you say that the Afghan in question will receive reception and that you are not prepared to pay periodic penalty payments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u27	I did say this in Parliament and not in the social media!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u28	Yeah, but it's displayed on social media.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u29	I said that here this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u30	Your statement will be brought up on the social media. However, I would like to ask you whether a refugee should really go to court before receiving shelter? There is one Afghan now, but what about all the other refugees who have not been given shelter and who sometimes have to wander around Brussels for more than two weeks. What about them? What if they go to court, too? Will you then grant à la tête du client sleeping accommodations? Where is your commitment to expanding pre-care and to register immediately everyone who is due here? We put on the table three months ago a proposal for a basic registration. In fact, many experts have supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u31	Mr De Vriendt, you are asking where that commitment is. Well, that commitment is there; pre-care is being expanded and there is an agreement to create three floors. That will be on Friday at the Council of Ministers and those floors will be created in the next few days. However, you must understand that it was not obvious to obtain those three floors from the owner. We do not own that building, but there are three floors empty there and we have been trying for weeks to get it. This has now finally been achieved, with an agreement from the insurer, which was not evident either. You ask where that commitment is. That commitment is there. If additional pre-reception sites can be created, we will do so. You're saying I'm not answering and it's like I'm having a press conference. I'll give you some answers to your questions. You have been in the opposition for a long time, but let me begin by setting out a historical framework for the reception crises in this country. There's been three big ones. The first was in 2000, which was a long time ago, but your party was in the government at the time, and then you were in charge of government. In 2000, there was no global refugee crisis. In 2000, there was a Belgian refugee problem, organised itself, because among other things your party, Mr De Vriendt, chose to give people money, about EUR 1 000 per person per month. If I choose to provide financial support tomorrow, my problem will be solved because I will no longer have to create shelter. If I give everyone EUR 1 000, there should be no more beds. But if I do, we will not receive 30 000 asylum seekers but 300 000. That creates a suction effect, as you know, because your party also caused it in 2000. That's a lot in your memory, but for me, that's pretty recent. This creates a huge suction effect and only makes the problem bigger. With regard to the procedure, I have not yet been served on the judgment, I hear statements from people who have already read that judgment. Apparently, everyone's read that but me. Yesterday afternoon, an e-mail was sent by the lawyer of the person concerned. The person concerned claims to be 17 years old, so he's a minor, and we'll examine that according to standard procedure. I'm looking forward to the results of the victim's bone scan. Mrs Gabriels, you also asked a question about the procedures, and that was a very good question. I am not a lawyer and will try to show how things were explained to me. If one goes to the labour court, it is by means of a unilateral petition and we are not informed of it until the ruling. The verdict was yesterday and I'm referring to the lawyer's e-mail. We did not therefore know that this was the subject of proceedings before the labour court, because it was a unilateral application. Apparently, that's how the procedure works. What are we gonna do? Mrs Smeyers, we will be making third-party protests anyway. I would also like to say that the case was first dismissed by the labour court. It is on appeal that the person concerned has been able to enforce the judgment of the courts. I must first read the judgment again and see what the motivation of the judges is. That is what the labour court is about. In addition, there are proceedings before the civil court. I need to look at my magazine so I don't make mistakes. Procedures have been initiated which are currently out of the question, as they have now received reception. They were not plucked out of it, but were summoned and submitted. If someone has shelter, the court of course says that the case is without object and does not give a ruling. There was another procedure from someone from Afghanistan who says he's a minor. That procedure was declared unobjected on Monday because he also received shelter. Otherwise, we have no knowledge of civil proceedings, because we are informed of them and then we can also go to court with a lawyer to defend ourselves. However, the labour court is a one-sided petition, so we have to look at that. The group of asylum seekers entitled to pre-care is decreasing day after day. The figure was about 2 400 people, but today it is less than 2 000 people. The influx is greatly reducing over the last few days. If we can go to 1 000, 1 300 or 1 400 reception places and the influx continues to fall over the next few days, we are almost 10 days ahead of the convocation period, and I hope that the problem will be resolved in a week and a half. Finally, some say that we should do more registrations, with a basic registration, up to more than 250 registrations a day. If we were to do that, we would have to give these people a place to stay. Fedasil can place no more than 250 beds a day. It hasn't even worked out in the last few days. It can be said that this cannot be done and that it has to be done. Everything has been viewed, from the Heizel Palaces to Opel Antwerpen and Ford Genk. All options have been reviewed. However, I am always open to suggestions from you, honourable Members of the Chamber, in the context of additional reception. If it is suggested at some point that I, or the government, would stop shelters, it is intellectually unfair. Whoever's suggesting that knows better.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u32	Mr Secretary of State, the question of whether this Afghan is a minor or not is not relevant. You cannot deny that in recent weeks minors have been denied the right to register. Even minors have not been able to register and have not been given a place to sleep in this country. That's a fact. You focus on avoiding periodic penalty payments, however, which is understandable. You're making that a matter of honor. However, I would ask you to focus on creating additional places in pre-care so that fewer people have to wander around the streets. This has been dragging on for months. Sleep containers, basic registration, you didn't need to know about any of it. You deliberately used the lack of sleeping accommodations to scare people to come to our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u33	That's not right!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u34	Then why aren't they here? Then why isn't the Maximilian park full of sleeping containers? Can you answer that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u35	Mr De Vriendt, your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u36	Mr Secretary of State, you yourself have admitted that now and then a wheel is turning off. That's obvious. That's what happens in all cases. If you want to do something, it could go wrong. With that determination, I can live. Nevertheless, I would like to make a call to check where the wheel turns off and then to steer. We are getting signals that there are problems with registration and with its speed and transparency. So my question really is to get the federal ombudsmen or any other agency to look into and adjust to these problems. That could be good ideas. Furthermore, I would particularly like to point out that the thirteen city centres in Flanders are asking this question to consult the local authorities as soon as possible. After all, they can ensure that the flow of refugees who can start an asylum procedure is much faster. I'm trying to be honest. Certain mayors appeal to me and say they haven't heard anything yet. Those thirteen center cities of all kinds of colors and affections are sending that message to you, so something is going on. They're not of bad will. So try to communicate transparently about the file. They are your supporters, if you handle things properly. That's all I want to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u37	Thank you, Mrs De Coninck. I believe that we can conclude the answers to the topical and urgent debate here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u38	We have just skipped Mrs Caprasse's question in order to deal first with the complex questions. As a courtesy, Mrs Caprasse, we shall now deal with your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u39	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, my question is already a few months old, but it is still very important. It is clear from the Luxembourg press in August that a cultural exchange project between young members of the Maison de jeunes de Marche-en-Famenne and young Senegalese people was not possible because of the lack of timely response regarding the visas required for young Senegalese people. The Maison de jeunes taught me that two other associations had to cancel their cultural exchange project for the same reason: the Maison de jeunes CEDAS ASBL in Schaerbeek (project with young Burkinabés) and the Maison de jeunes de Couvin (project with young Moroccans). With regard to the project with the young Senegalese, the project partner in Senegal had submitted the file to the Belgian Embassy in Dakar, which transferred it to the Office des Etrangers pending an opinion, which was not delivered until after the planned date for the project. When the visa refusal was confirmed, the Maison de jeunes de Marche-en-Famenne turned to the travel agency, which asked for a certificate to be issued by the Belgian Embassy in Dakar. After exchanges of more than a month with the project manager, the Commission never wanted to issue the certificate, nor did it intend to give the reasons for the refusal. With regard to this last point, the Embassy invokes respect for privacy. For their part, the fifteen members of the Senegalese delegation had each received a document indicating that they had refused a visa. This situation, Mr Secretary of State, is all the more incomprehensible because this project was supervised by the International Youth Bureau of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. Mr Secretary of State, why did visa applications receive such a late and, moreover, negative response when it was a project supported by the public authorities, namely the city of Marche-en-Famenne, the province of Luxembourg and the Wallonia-Brussels Federation via the International Youth Bureau? What are you proposing in such cases where costs have been incurred and reimbursement of these costs is in principle impossible in that the answer to the visa has not been known until after the planned trip and is therefore due to a delay in the procedure? Why did the Belgian Embassy in Dakar refuse to issue the visa refusal certificate? Finally, what measures are being implemented by your department to comply with your general guidance note, in which you are committed to taking the necessary steps to ensure that your administration issues temporary residence visas in a timely manner?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u40	Ms. Caprasse, the Office of Foreigners made its decision when the date of the event had passed. This situation is regrettable, but can be explained by the summer period during which these visa applications were submitted. The summer is traditionally a difficult time in diplomatic and consular posts or at the Agency, and the influx of migrants during the same period has failed to strengthen the service, as has been the case in recent years. In any case, even during periods of high activity, persons applying for a visa to attend an event, a conference, a cultural exchange, in short, those expected in Belgium on a specific date usually receive a response before the date of the intended stay. If choices are to be made, the Agency will focus on those files that can lead to a positive decision. It should also be noted that the application arrived very late, to the extent that it was impossible for the Agency to examine it thoroughly before the expiry of the time limit. The Office did indeed refuse to issue the visas requested, notwithstanding the support for public authority projects in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, as it considered that the conditions for access to Schengen territory were not met. Each applicant has been notified of this decision, which is set out in law and in fact. Each applicant was aware of the reason why the requested visa was refused and was free to inform third parties. On the other hand, for obvious reasons of confidentiality, neither the positions nor the Office communicates the status of a file to a third party whom the applicant has not designated as an agent. Any person authorised by the applicant may also verify the status of the applications by inserting the postal references in the application "Where is my visa application?" made available to the public on the Office's website. As far as the costs incurred by an applicant are concerned, my role is to inform him of the need to submit his visa application early enough, especially during periods of high activity and to file a full file in order to avoid unnecessary costs and disappointment. In this case, I repeat that the applicant did not demonstrate that he met the conditions for entry into the Schengen area. Please be assured that every effort is made both at diplomatic and consular posts and at the level of the Agency for the rapid examination of visa applications. However, fast does not mean sloppy! In this way, you will understand that particular attention is paid to requests from people who present a priori a migratory profile. In general, I can only advise the public authorities supporting a project to take the time to draw up a dossier which shows that the conditions for entry into the Schengen area are met and, if necessary, to contact the Office of Foreigners in order to ensure that the file constituted meets the expectations. The Office is still available but unfortunately rarely requested in the preparatory phase of a project. However, some projects present a clear migration risk; it is therefore important that public authorities supporting a project understand that an entry visa is neither a right nor a formality. Belgium is obliged to comply with the provisions of the Community Visa Code, i.e. a letter of invitation or a declaration of acceptance without simple legal implications is not sufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u41	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. When you talk about slow activity in the summer, I don't think that's an excuse. When there are requests, the administration must be there and must be able to respond. So I cannot accept that answer, which is a little too lax. In all jurisdictions, compensation must be provided if people have gone on leave. It's an organizational problem. Besides, in embassies, it's not excusable. When projects are supported by different official entities, I do not think that this can be a way for some to infiltrate across the Schengen border to move to Belgium illegally. When there are cultural projects, this must be taken into account, treated seriously and given additional value to such events. This is part of our civilization, part of our world, and it is something that must be encouraged. You answered me in a way that doesn't satisfy me. I will also check with the organisations how they have introduced their files. There may have been shortcomings. But I think there was still a way to grant a visa so that this project could take place, when we know what a trip from Senegal to Belgium costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u42	I would like to express my disappointment. Earlier, I wanted to speak, and my colleague too, in today's debate. We are members of the committee, but we do not have a deliberative voice. Which means we can't vote. I'm a little disappointed that I couldn't speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u43	The Rules of Procedure refer to political groups, Political Groups .
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u44	I'm a group of my own!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic289x.u45	Not according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Carcaci.
