ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u1	We will contact Members by telephone to ask them whether or not they wish to convert their oral question into a written question. The first question on the agenda is Question No 4229 by Mr Spoorten.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u2	Mr President, I turn that question into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u3	Do you wish to translate all your oral questions into written questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u4	Yes, if that's also possible for my questions that are combined with questions from other Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u5	All right, we'll try to do that. The next question on the agenda is Question 4232 by Mrs Grovonius. She's not here. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u6	Ms. Grovonius' question 4232 was postponed. We now come to the questions put together under item 12, among others, by Mrs Lanjri, on the income guarantee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u7	Mr President, I am prepared to translate these questions into written questions, if I can be sure that I can get an answer and that the fellow applicants agree. If not, I'll ask those questions now. My fellow Members are not here at the moment. If I ask my questions now, there will be an answer to all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u8	Your fellow Members, Mr Kitir and Mr Gilkinet, are not here right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u9	Mr President, I wonder if I can also get an answer if my fellow Members do not turn their questions into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u10	Those fellow Members are not here right now, so you can turn your questions into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u11	Mr President, I have a question on the same subject under item 66. For me, it is good to have the same question. 7054 is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u12	Minister, if the sitting is somewhat chaotic, please excuse me. Many Members turn their question into a written question, and I think that is a good thing to make progress on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u13	Minister, if it would be easier for you if I were to turn my questions into written questions, I would be happy to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I very much appreciate, also in view of the volume of questions that Members are proposing to translate their questions into written questions when I provide them with written answers. I can agree that the written prepared answers will be provided. If a Member wishes to speak here, I will, of course, give it to him, but I am prepared to provide all the written answers, so that Members can read the answers quietly. If a written reply is insufficient, a new oral question may be tabled. In this way, I believe that a whole package of questions can be answered very efficiently. I agree with your proposal, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u15	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are following the agenda. Mrs Lanjri put her combined questions to the Commission. 4397 and 5086 in written questions. As the fellow petitioners are not here, I would suggest that the questions should be put to the House. Question No 48, by Mrs Kitir and No 4845 Mr Gilkinet (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Gilkinet on his excellent report. Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht Mrs Fonck added 7054 on the same subject. That question will also be converted into a written question. We now come to the combined questions 4407 by Mr Massin and 4664 by Mr Maingain. They're not here. As Mr Massin is said to be coming back to our committee, I agree to postpone that question for a while, from a gentilless point of view with regard to the PS, and that still rhymes. In my day, it never happened like that, but okay. Question No 4409 by Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 4570 by Mrs Fonck, No. 5191) by Mrs Kitir and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Mrs Fonck's 5887 will be converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament 4604 by Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou was postponed. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Kitir's 4605 and 4606 were converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vercamer converted 4770 into a written question. Mr Friart is not present, but out of courtesy we shall be adding question No. 5535 will also be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Ann Vanheste's 4911 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 5020 has expired. Debates of the European Parliament 5078 by Mrs Kitir, No 5078 by Mrs Kitir, No 5078 by Mrs Kitir, No 5078 by Mrs Kitir, No 5078 by Mrs Kitir, No 5078 by Mrs Kitir, No 5078 by Mrs Kitir, No 5078 by Mrs Kitir, No 5078 by Mrs Kitir, No 5078 by Mrs Kitir, No 5078 by Mrs Kitir, No 5078 by Mrs Kitir, No 5078 by Mrs Kitir, No 5078 by Mrs Kitir, No 5078 by Mrs Kitir, No 5078 by Mrs Kitir, No 5078 by Mrs Kitir, No 5078 by Mrs Kitir, No 5078 by Mrs Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Question No 5111 by Mr Vercamer and Question No 5192 by Mrs Kitir will be converted into written questions. Questions No 5277 by Mr Vercamer and No Mrs Kitir's 5283 amendments were converted into written questions. Mr Hedebouw is not here. His question No. 5279 shall be postponed at his request. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Lachaert's 5339 question was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Kitir's 5384 and 5466 are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Lachaert's 5483 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Cauter's 5486 was postponed at her request. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Lachaert converted 5556 into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Friart's 5643 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 5660 will be converted into a written question. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Dedry, Mrs Dedry, Mrs Dedry, Mrs Dedry, Mrs Dedry, Mrs Dedry, Mrs Dedry, Mrs Dedry, Mrs Dedry, Mrs Dedry, Mrs Dedry, Mrs Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 5988 will be converted into a written question. Questions Nos 6004 and 6424 by Mrs Kitir and Mr Massin are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Massin's 6064 was withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Clarinval (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by Colleagues, the problem is that everyone assumes that his or her question will not be discussed for an hour. However, one must always be present on the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u16	Mr President, perhaps all the questions that have been prepared can be answered in writing for once, despite the absence of the authors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u17	Mr President, by correcting the other colleagues who may be in another committee and given that we are a few parliamentarians here, with all the good will to turn our questions into written questions, the Members present who wish to obtain an oral answer, even if their questions are placed on the agenda later, could they not ask their questions now, which would allow others to arrive? It's just a suggestion. Of course, the last word comes from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u18	Are you suggesting that absent parliamentarians' questions be deferred?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u19	No, I propose that parliamentarians present should be able to put some of their questions orally right now. I'll take an example. I still have a series of questions on the agenda. They can all be converted into written questions, except one. I'm not just talking to myself. That would leave time for other parliamentarians to arrive. We'll be right with everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, let me sum up. Agenda items 8 to 43 have been dealt with, except for the questions put by Mr Massin, who is on his way. It is now up to those present to ask their oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u21	Mr.President, Minister, on Thursday, October 22, 2015, a bill containing various provisions in the social field was passed in the plenary of the House of Representatives. This bill, which targets the Horeca sector, includes the introduction of flexi-jobs. Flexi-job involves the payment of a flexi-salary. According to the explanatory memorandum, flexi-salaire is a net non-baremic wage which is fixed in concert, but which cannot be lower than a legal minimum. This net remuneration is exempt from taxes and a special social security contribution of 25% is due. Only the holiday money is due in addition to the flexi-salary, the same special contribution also applying. However, within the scope of this Act, the special allowances and bonuses provided for in sectoral collective labour agreements have not been taken into account for the said flexi-salary. In particular, reference is made to bonuses for work during the weekend. Minister, during our consideration of this bill in committee and in plenary, we kept repeating that there were problems. The social partners also called on you and your social affairs colleague to remind you of this situation. I now hear that the Council of Ministers has already amended this bill at its first reading. In the written text of my question, I asked you whether these bonuses and allowances were due or not in case of flexi-jobs. In case of a positive response, I asked you if they were liable to regular social contributions. Today, the government seems to realize that the legal provision needs to be corrected. Could you give me clear information on this? When you answer my questions, I will allow myself to make a political comment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Fonck, the bill on various provisions in the social field, which was adopted during the plenary session on 22 October 2015, defines flexi-salary as the net wage intended to pay for a flexi-job benefit. The minimum wage flexi-salary is 8.82 euros per hour. The bill does not provide for a specific rule for sectoral premiums and allowances, e.g. bonuses for weekend work. This implies that, like ordinary workers, flexi-job workers are also entitled to such benefits, of course, provided that all the conditions of the legislation concerned are met. The question of what social security contributions are due for such premiums and allowances does not fall within my competence but within the competence of the Minister of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u23	Minister, thank you. If the on-line information on the government website is correct, I note that the Council of Ministers, at its meeting on 13 November 2015, has already tried to correct – I don't know exactly how – the difficulties I raised. My question is before 13 November. I find this a shame and a damage. However, the social partners highlighted this quickly, well before the bill was finalized at government level. In addition, in the course of parliamentary work on this bill, we reiterated that there are many problems and that, in the absence of collective work in the House to correct these provisions, a law of reparation would be necessary. The reality is that you are making a law of reparation which, in time to go to the Council of State and follow the whole procedure, will only complicate the situation because, in the meantime, the law will have entered into force. In addition to clearly regretting what is "bad governance", if I may allow myself, politically, I also believe that it is a form of bad faith both towards the social partners and against the work of Parliament. To be constructive, I would like to make a proposal. Rather than waiting for more than two months, would it not be useful and good governance to pass, at some point, these famous legislative correction provisions by parliament. This would make matters easier and would avoid the coming into force of a law that would have to be repaired anyway. Indeed, we already know that we will have to vote for reparation because it passed to the Council of Ministers on 13 November 2015. I honestly find that it would grow everyone and that would allow the social partners and especially the companies not to find themselves in complicated situations, having to apply laws, pieces of law and corrections in a second stage. Mr President, we could possibly correct the law through amendments. I imagine that part of the program bill will concern employment and social affairs. This would make it possible to move faster and avoid difficulties on the ground, in any case as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u24	Mr President, of course I listened to Mrs Fonck. I believe, however, that it is wiser to await the opinion of the Council of State. For the rest, I would like to reassure you that this issue will be discussed in the committee and in Parliament. I understand that you are concerned, but I hope you will understand that it is wiser to wait for the advice of the Council of State before discussing the amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u25	Minister, if we worked otherwise, we wouldn't end up in such a situation. I was trying to make a proposal that would allow everyone to get away with it from the top. I dare imagine that you prefer to work this way because it allows everyone to manage the situation where it is. I find this regrettable. This is certainly not a good example of governance and management.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u26	Mr President, Mr Massin would like to begin with his question No. 4687.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u27	Mr. Chairman, Minister, co-location is becoming increasingly common. Indeed, this practice is social, user-friendly and economically interesting except when one depends on unemployment. In the event of cohabitation, the allowance for a job seeker is considerably reduced. For example, for a 21-year-old receiving an integration allowance, the amount of his allowance will be increased from €817.96 as isolated to €425.36 per month as a cohabitant. This represents a decrease of almost 50% in an amount that already does not allow to live decently! In the event of cohabitation, in order to keep the amount of the allowance at the isolated rate, the jobseeker will have to prove that the roommates do not mainly deal with household matters in common and therefore do not share the costs and expenses of living. In concrete terms, it will have to show that roommates pay separate water, gas and electricity bills, that they shop separately and that living spaces are clearly separated. In practice, this often proves impossible because, by way of example, there is only one meter of water or electricity available for the dwelling, and therefore only one invoice drawn up on behalf of one of the roommates who governs it, while the others repay their share or pay another invoice. In addition, it would appear that each Office of the ONEM has its own case law in this area because there is no precise definition of the term "co-habitat". As a result, two identical situations can be dealt with in diametrically opposite ways depending on the ONEM office. For these reasons, it is necessary to create a normative framework to address the issue of co-location. Otherwise, it seems to me that, for lack of clear criteria, any control could prove impossible and any decision to refuse and/or sanction would be unfair. However, determining what is meant by "cohabitation" is precisely within your competence. Minister, are you going, for job seekers, to promote this mutually supportive and enriching practice of co-location? Are you going to adopt a normative framework to make the rules governing co-location among job seekers transparent by ensuring more security and justice? Have you already drawn up an action plan to this effect? Are you going to be imaginative to allow roommates to live their choice of life without being penalized?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u28	Mr President, Mr Massin, I am fully aware of the reality that many young people are living together in shared housing. You are asking me to put in place a normative framework to address this issue of co-location and to ensure greater legal certainty and justice. First of all, I would like to make it clear that, contrary to what you are saying, the regulation of unemployment is very clear in this respect. The concept of cohabitation is defined by Article 59 of the Ministerial Decree of 26 November 1991 laying down detailed rules for the application of the rules on unemployment, which reads as follows: "In cohabitation, it is necessary to mean the fact that two or more persons live together under the same roof and to settle mainly in common the questions of auspiciousness." I can say that this provision has been applied uniformly by all unemployment offices since the publication of this ministerial decree, that is, for almost 24 years. Before adopting a normative framework or considering an action plan, I believe that a serious analysis of this problem is necessary in order to avoid any misuse and to avoid a discriminatory approach to other persons compensated as cohabitants.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answer. I know the legal provision. The only problem is that it no longer corresponds to reality. You're telling me that before we consider an action plan, we need to see if we don't abuse the situation. Today, however, it can be assumed that those who make these choices, who do not find themselves in the application of the legal provision, are penalized. Rather, it would be necessary to reverse the reasoning and provide an answer to those people.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u30	Mr Massin, I have already said that I would like to analyse this problem and if there are any, react!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u31	That's the case right now! It's not a rabbit I'm getting out of my hat!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u32	In that case, I'll check it out!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u33	As you seem open to me, I invite you to check and worry about real situations on the ground and not to think here. Let us agree to meet again after the Christmas holidays to re-examine the case together. I ask you for the results of an evaluation that you would have asked the services to carry out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u34	It is always possible that we may not be well informed. We contacted ONEM, who told us that this was not an important problem. I will return to contact with their services to ensure that your comments are correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u35	Minister, I can tell you a few specific cases!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u36	I'm open, Mr Massin, but I'll check again because you think I'm misinformed!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u37	No, I think your intention is good. I had a wish and I would like it to be realized. Do not necessarily believe everything that ONEM transmits to you as a word of the gospel! L'incident est close
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u38	Mr President, Minister, you may have read the report of some KUL researchers. According to the latter, the government agreement would contain a bad idea – I'm not saying it, but they are saying it – which consists of having long-term job seekers work two half days a week. These researchers have studied the operation of such a system in other countries and have concluded that it has disadvantages. Many examples are given. I shall retain that of Great Britain, because it seems interesting to me. They noted that job seekers included in such a program have, after two years, the same probability of getting a job as those who did not. Such a project therefore does not offer a real chance of socio-occupational reintegration. Contrary to what some people believe, it's a duck with its wings cut off. Second, the legal uncertainty inherent in this provision would be dangerous, as the boundary between such a service to society and forced labour would be very narrow. For this reason, the UK authorities have already lost many cases against job-seekers who have been placed at work. I do not wish the Belgian State to be confronted with this situation. Moreover, this constant questioning still arises about the kind of work that job seekers would do and would take from an active person. These three elements are therefore particularly negative. Finally, for international organizations such as the OECD, it would be more interesting to encourage jobseekers to return to work by paying them an income supplement. This good idea, called "income guarantee allowance", has been somewhat forgotten. It is even the opposite that has been done. You can imagine the catastrophic consequences for the budgets of the households concerned – especially as far as women are concerned. Minister, what position do you have in this study? If you persisted in the implementation of this measure contained in the Government Agreement, what would be the means used to counter legal uncertainty? What jobs will the long-term unemployed be able to fill? It is important to determine the categories from the outset. Do you have any concrete solutions to the problems raised? Are you in favour of the approach put forward by the OECD, that is to say, the income supplement for the long-term unemployed, as is already practiced with some success in several countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u39	Mr President, Mr Massin, I am a little embarrassed because, to be quite honest, we have not yet had time to analyse this study. The answer I was about to give you is not adequate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u40	Thank you for your frankness.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u41	We had asked the ONEM to give us its opinion in this regard, but it has not yet reached us. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Massin, it may be appropriate to postpone the question to a later meeting, which will give me time to analyze the study in question to provide you with an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u42	If Mr. President agrees. In January, would it be appropriate for you, minister? This will give you a study holiday.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u43	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u44	Therefore, Mr. Chairman, if we could postpone this question to January. Let us not forget also to postpone Mrs Kitir's question, which was attached to mine.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u45	No problem. Now I propose that we respect the order again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u46	Mr President, in the interests of speed, I shall sum up my question. Minister, the UCM interviewed 3,000 employers to hear their views on the removal of the probationary period on hiring. 93% of them consider this to be very negative and disadvantageous for job creation. Mr Minister, in order to get to the issue very quickly, the government agreement provides for an assessment of this abolition by the social partners. Can you tell me what criteria will be used for this evaluation? More generally, how do you see things about restoring the trial period for employment contracts?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you know that the law of 26 December 2013 on the introduction of a single statute for workers and employees effectively removed the possibility of inserting a test clause in most employment contracts. I would point out that the adjustment of these provisions follows a compromise which was presented in the course of the negotiations with the organisations representing employers and workers. As regards the evaluation of the abolition of the trial period by the social partners, I cannot yet tell you when and on what criteria it will be carried out. I understand that there is a very strong demand from some organizations. The government agreement is also very clear. We will ask the social partners to assess the situation. In fact, this assessment covers not only the trial period but the whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u48	Minister, thank you. I note that there is not yet any information on this evaluation. This measure is the result of a compromise, but we also know the conditions under which this compromise was reached at the time. However, there is a strong demand not only for UCM but also for employers' organisations. My group hopes that there will be a review of this matter. This is particularly detrimental to job creation and a source of uncertainty, whereas the government agreement should rather bring relief to this issue. I am counting on you to move quickly on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u49	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Kitir's 6094 and 6214 have been converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Hufkens' 6239 expires. Debates of the European Parliament 6338 by Mrs de Coster-Bauchau, 6433 and 6434 by Mrs Fonck, 6830 by Mr Lachaert and 6462 by Mrs Kitir are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u50	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 65, by Mrs Kitir and No 6591 Mr Fonck's 7056 were converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u51	Minister, I would like to ask you about the effect of reductions in social contributions for the non-market sector and for the social maribel. As part of your July fiscal and budgetary agreement, you have decided to reduce the cost of employers' social contributions linearly with a declared objective of competitiveness. In the non-market or social-profit sector which is not subject to international competition, the previously decided reductions in contributions were used to create employment through the social Maribel system. Reductions in contributions are thus transformed into wage subsidies which create new jobs under joint management at a very limited cost in sectors that are particularly useful to society. This is a system that has proved its worth at various levels, particularly in terms of job creation. According to the information circulating, rather than allocating to the non-market sector, due to the proportion of its representativeness, i.e. 13.59 % of the total mass, of which 2.35% concern the adapted labour sector, all the means intended to create new jobs Maribel, the government has decided to devote half to the reduction of social contributions without compensatory commitments, and to allocate 5 % to the hospital sector. Moreover, the government would have the intention to review the current Royal Decree on the Social Maribel and to challenge the latter's joint management procedures, as well as the ceiling for intervention in the cost of employment. In doing so, with the same sum, fewer jobs would be created, which is, for a government whose slogan is "Jobs! Jobs! Jobs!", A famous paradox. If this information were to prove correct, the government would seriously endanger a system that has over the years created 20,000 jobs and would prevent the creation of 8,000 new jobs, namely the difference between the 10,000 jobs that the traditional Maribel application would create and the 2,000 jobs that the new system would create, given the lack of intervention and other savings imposed on social security. Minister, do you confirm this information and the government's intention not to allocate 100% of the reductions in social contributions in the non-market sector to the creation of new jobs through the Maribel system? What justifies this decision when labour needs are high in the sector in order to meet the objectives it has set itself, particularly with regard to early childhood care or the elderly? How would the 50% cost reductions and 5% for the hospital sector be allocated if they were not allocated to the Maribel? Under what criteria and with what control? What would be the impact on job creation? Do you confirm your intention to review the Royal Maribel Order and question the joint management of this system? In what sense? What would justify this choice? Will this amendment of the Maribel Order be the subject of consultation with the representatives of the sector concerned, in this case the non-market sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u52	Mr President, Minister, one of the measures provided for under the tax shift is the reduction in employer social contributions. Fortunately, it has been reviewed since last July. Initially, this was a linear decrease of 33 to 25 per cent, even though some employers already had employer social contributions of less than 25 per cent, particularly for low wages. Now, the effort is much more important for low wages, which is obvious from the economic point of view since the effectiveness in terms of job creation when targeting low wages in particular is known. In his return speech, the Prime Minister said that "as of 2016, employers' contributions will increase from 17.3 to 13 per cent out of a salary of less than 1,500 euros. Before the end of the legislature, it will be 10.9 per cent." It is not clear whether or not this type of arrangement will apply to the non-market sector, including in conjunction with other existing measures. I know that several representations have written to the government, to the best of my knowledge, without reply to date, to obtain information about the employers of the non-trader. I would also like to take this opportunity, Minister, to extend my question to the interim, because it also concerns non-marketers. Yes or no, an independent, an SME who wants to hire a first worker do they receive reduced social contributions to zero if they hire the worker through an acting contract? Does this apply to this sector? In what way? My question is not that the non-market sector, but in the latter, recruitment is done regularly through interim companies. If this also concerns the market sector, it is an important element for which questions remain at the level of the economic and non-market sectors. As we refer to the issue of employer social security contributions, it would be appropriate if you could shed some light on the various sectors in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the commitments relating to social Maribel under the Competitiveness Pact are fully respected. The increase in the reduction of the employer's contribution of €13.92 per worker per quarter will take effect on 1 January 2016. This amounts to EUR 30 million in total. In addition, the planned increase for 2017 is advanced to April 1, 2016. In addition, the government has decided, under the tax shift, to allocate the non-market budget, categories 2 and 3, as follows: 50 per cent for low wages, 45 per cent for social Maribel and 5 per cent for hospitals. Compared to the current allocations, from 2016, we expect at least €94.3 million more for the Social Maribel. To this will be added 42.8, 34.7 and 42.8 million euros respectively in 2018, 2019 and 2020. These means will considerably strengthen the social Maribel, thus enabling the creation of jobs and the safeguarding of existing jobs. The 50% envelope represents a significant additional effort to reduce wage costs for low and medium wage earners. The tax shift therefore goes far beyond mere employment through the social Maribel. Efforts to reduce contributions for low wages ensure the best results for employment. Mr Gilkinet, you had an additional question about joint management. I can tell you that the joint management of the funds remains assured.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u54	Mr Minister, thank you for confirming that the means promised by the Competitiveness Pact will be allocated to the non-market sector. He wouldn't have missed anything but that! You also confirm that instead of 100% reductions in social contributions in this sector – as was the case previously – only 45% of them will be used to create jobs through the social Maribel. Then, 5% will benefit hospitals. You didn't explain to me the reason, because it's very surprising. This precedent is unfortunate. For what purpose will this sector use this money? Finally, 50% will be allocated to low and medium wage interventions instead of allowing the non-market sector to receive flat-rate aid with a supplement paid by employers. This is the most effective way to create jobs. Management will remain equal. Again, it would be all that is missing! However, you did not answer me specifically as to the maintenance of the Maribel's management conditions. Your method inaugurates a serious precedent against the non-market sector. In addition, while the latter has enormous needs – early childhood care, the elderly, the disabled or even youth – you are preventing yourself from creating jobs. Moreover, you did not question my assessment that this 50% and 5% allocation is an obstacle in this area. This is a bad decision, which may be the result of an execrable negotiation – if you have been forced to do so. That's what I wanted to highlight. In any case, minister, it is always possible to rectify this wrong choice by dialogue with the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u55	Mr President, Mr Minister, the non-market is obviously an important issue and I think you are paying attention to it. I disagree with Mr Gilkinet when he says that hospitals can't do anything about it. I do not share that view. The government has excluded everything that is public sector, etc. In the non-market sector, however, a series of structures are concerned at the public level, whether they are hospitals or other types of structures such as nursing homes. We must therefore look at the effort that can be made in this area. Minister, you did not answer my question about acting workers. May I ask you to look into the matter? Do you not find that it might be discriminatory for SMEs or self-employed persons who wish to hire a first worker to benefit from reduced social contributions to zero from January 2016 if they hire the worker on a fixed contract, while they will have to bear the full burden of contributions if they hire a first worker via temporary employment? Let us acknowledge this, Minister, it is not uncommon for small businesses or self-employed people who start up, not yet certain of the future of their business, to go through the acting period to avoid the administrative burdens associated with initial recruitment. Minister, what has been decided at the government level? Has temporary work been taken into account? Are you considering doing this? Have you thought well about the advantages and possibly the disadvantages? For my part, Minister, I think it is really worth looking at the problem, if I may draw your attention to this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u56	Debates of the European Parliament Mr David Clarinval's 6631 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u57	Minister, I do not need to detail the problem, because he has been known for years. The reception parents in our country provide very many shelters. However, more and more members of a service of reception parents stop because their status is so bad. The bad status is described as one of the main reasons why they are not holding up. Between 2009 and 2014, a quarter of the reception parents quit. The current status of social protection that they enjoy is flawed. It was originally intended as a temporary statute. They were promised a full statute by 2006. It was even a priority in the government agreement in 2007. In 2010 too, the federal government agreed that the government was committed to drawing up a fully-fledged statute. Until now, however, the statute is still not in place. The current statute has many disadvantages, because it was intended for a transitional period. It does not provide financial security through a right to unemployment benefit if the activity is discontinued. The reception parents do not have full social security rights. Because they are not officially paid but work with a net hourly allowance, they are not entitled to a holiday bonus, an end-of-year bonus and so on. There are also other disadvantages due to the fact that there is no official pay. I can give you the example of someone who has been doing this work for 10 years and who would like to buy his own place. She wants to get a loan for this, but she is sent by every bank because she is officially not receiving a wage but a remuneration. These are issues that need to be addressed urgently and inequalities that need to be addressed. They are entitled to full pay, especially for the important and not to be underestimated work they do on a daily basis. Mr Minister, that is why I am asking for the status of reception parents to be improved at federal level, within your powers. First and foremost, they are entitled to a good statute, and it is also necessary to make the profession attractive and to encourage it and to limit its outflow. It must be made attractive because the number of reception places is limited and demand continues to increase. Mr Minister, that is why I am asking about the state of play in this dossier. It was said at the time that there would be consultation with the Länder. Has that been there recently, or has it been planned? Last year, the administration of the FPS Finances made simulations that would be delivered to the consultation committee. However, we have not yet received any results. Finally, Minister, do you intend to take a legislative initiative yourself? I have seen that your group has already tabled a legislative proposal at the beginning of last year. Should I be concerned that there will not be a bill because of the government? Can we at least expect results from this legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u58	Mr President, Minister, like other colleagues, I have already spoken on this issue a few times. For a number of years now, we have promised women who are welcoming children a real professional and social status, including minimum income, paid leave, unemployment benefits and daily expenses. You told me, during our last exchange on this subject in committee, that you planned to meet Minister Joëlle Milquet, in charge of early childhood in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. You mentioned the date of January 30th. Minister, has your interview with Minister Milquet been well conducted? Have you met since January 30? What decisions have been taken in this regard? What about the consultations with other federal government ministers? Have any working meetings been scheduled? In short, what is the status of this case? Can we expect progress for 2016? On the part of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, things have moved forward, since a budget is apparently planned in 2016 to guarantee a minimum wage for child-friendly women. Is the federal government involved in this project? Have you established an agenda with specific objectives by the end of the legislature to finally succeed in this issue, which is crucial for both women workers and for the reception capacities?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u59	Mr. President, Minister, for years, child-friendly women have been claiming professional social status. I'm going through the details. A consultation committee meeting between the federal government and federal entities was held on January 15, 2015. Very little information has filtered. Minister, could you take stock of this issue? Has a schedule of work and meetings been established? If so, can you tell us? What about the consultations with federal and Walloon government ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a problem that has been raised a number of times. I'll tell you what's going on. Consultation between different entities is necessary for the development of the host parents' status. The two previous governments tried to reach a consensus in this respect, but failed to do so. In fact, not all those involved are asking for a full statute. This is not a guarantee of a better wage. We hope to find a solution during this legislature. As far as labour law is concerned, there are no real problems. The 1978 Law on employment contracts can serve as a basis. It mentions a contract for the employment of house workers. The various work in the working groups of the previous legislatures has encouraged the Flemish Government to launch a pilot project, which aims to examine whether and how an employee statute can be applied in practice, with reception parents affiliated to a service for reception parents offering family care in their own home. The pilot project will run from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2016. During this trial period, a number of child care organisers may have some of their reception parents working in a home-worker's statute. On the basis of the evaluation of the pilot project, the Flemish Government will decide whether a generalisation of this employee status is appropriate or possible and, if so, under what conditions. Several working meetings between the social partners and the Child & Family took place to develop the pilot project. Where this pilot project was first agreed with the social partners of the private sector, a joint committee of 331, the public sector was then involved in this pilot project so that the project includes both the private and the public sector. We are in constant consultation with all concerned, both public authorities and the social partners. In this context, I can only conclude that the Flemish Government has started a concrete pilot project. This is an important first step. The evaluation of this project is crucial before further steps can be taken in this dossier. On the basis of these results, we can start discussions between all the authorities immediately, this time on the basis of a concrete experience with the employees' statute.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u61	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Unfortunately, it doesn't sound ambitious. You say: 'We hope there will be a statute by the end of this legislature.'
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u62	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u63	You'll just have to step up and show some ambition in that file...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u64	That's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u65	... especially since you are referring to the ongoing project of the Flemish Government, which your colleague Vandeurzen himself says the federal government should not wait to take a legislative initiative because it is independent of it. So don't wait for that period and start the negotiations already. You also said that not every reception parent is waiting for that, but you cannot stop that either. If you could make a full employment status for the reception parents, they could board on a voluntary basis. Those who don't want it can stay in the old system if they like it better. There are currently around 7 000 reception parents in that case. They provide care for about 30 000 children. They're having a hard time. Their work is not to be underestimated. I must repeat this and emphasise it, because they are not respected enough for the important job they do. They deserve wages according to work and all the benefits associated with it. If you do not manage to draw up a statute, just as your predecessors do, at least provide a solution to the disadvantages that are now attached to it, such as not getting a loan. At least find a solution to these practical issues and, preferably, to a full statute, as a matter of urgency. To hear the questions put together, many fellow Members share this view and concern. In order to support you in your work and in the hope of increasing your ambition in this area, I will table a motion for a recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u66	Minister, since my last question, unfortunately I do not see much progress in this project. Like Mrs Pas, I think it lacks a bit of ambition. I have serious doubts. I do not question your will, but since this project is not included in the government's policy statement, I am quite puzzled about the ability to achieve this child-rearing status. I heard you on various pilot projects. As I understand it, there is a pilot project at the Flemish government level and a pilot project at the federal level. I didn't understand the distinction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u67	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u68	No? It's based on this project. Unfortunately, I did not hear whether there had been any consultation with the French Community. What progress has been made with the French Community? There, it moved, it is no longer a pilot project. Waiting for the federal government to take the initiative – the previous governments and this government – the French Community had to act. A budget of €4 million is foreseen in 2016 and it would be €8 million planned in 2017 to guarantee a minimum wage for child-friendly women. But that's not enough. I think that if a financial step is already taken, it would be good if the federal government followed suit to ensure that there is a full status for child-friendly women. I will allow myself to come back to the matter again, minister. There is a real need for consultation on this issue. The federal government must not be lagging behind. Thank you, anyway, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u69	Thank you for that clarification, minister. However, I have heard that Flanders has joined a pilot project, whereas the French Community has obviously not set up a pilot project. I wonder whether the French Community does not want to be involved in the pilot project presented. Is this a willingness not to move forward or have they taken other options? I'll take a look at the question. It is clear that there are currently double standards.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u70	Thank you to those who want to further strengthen my level of ambition. I have great respect for the reception parents and those who perform an important task in them. Let's get that straight. It is certainly the practice to solve this problem during this legislature. My colleague, Mr Vandeurzen, is right to say that you should not wait for the Flemish level. There is no ban on taking initiatives from us. The only question is whether it is wise to do so before the pilot project ends on 31 December 2016. Mrs Winckel, we have had contacts with Minister Milquet to discuss and examine the situation in the French Community. I understood that the Walloon government is in a phase of reflection and discussion. This indicates that we are not only in contact with Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u71	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'd like to link another case to that. To a question in the Flemish Parliament whether there will be additional consultation with the federal authorities on the statute, your colleague Vandeurzen replied at the beginning of July 2015 that no consultation is planned and that this is not really linked to the project either. That worries me. I would like consultation to be launched as soon as possible and not to wait until the end of the project which ends at the end of December. I know how frighteningly slow this is, and I stick to my question of improving the situation and developing a full statute.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u72	Mr President, I have a little technical clarification. The project runs from January 2015 to December 2016. That will be there soon, but still a little less fast than December 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u73	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Labour, Economy and Consumers, responsible for Foreign Trade, - having regard to the need for childcare facilities for small children, - having regard to the large outflow of reception parents, - whereas the social status of members of a service was proposed as temporary and a full status was promised by 2006; - having regard to the need to improve the status of members of a service, - having regard to the fact that members of a service are entitled to a contract of employment, with the benefits resulting from it such as the right to unemployment allowance, holiday allowance and end-of-year allowance; - whereas the recipients of a service cannot rely on their 'pay' and are entitled to a full 'wage' on the credit market; asks the Minister for Labour grant, in the short term, a full status of a migrant worker to a member of a service, who may join the scheme on a voluntary basis, in order to enable them to conclude a contract of employment under the general rules of labour law and all social security rules, including unemployment allowance and annual holiday allowance and end-of-year contribution." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Employment, Economy and Consumer Affairs, responsible for external trade, - in view of the need for childcare facilities; - in view of the numerous departures of foster children; Whereas the social status of the accepted children's shelters has been presented as temporary and that a status worthy of that name should be proposed for 2006; - in view of the need to improve the status of accepted children's shelters; Whereas the reception of children under contract has the right to enter into an employment contract and, therefore, to benefit from the benefits resulting therefrom, such as the right to receive unemployment benefits, a holiday allowance and a year-end premium; Whereas the reception of children who have been contracted, whose 'indemnities' do not allow access to the credit, is entitled to a genuine'salary'; asks the Minister of Employment to grant a genuine status as a salaried worker in the short term to the receptionist of children who are under contract, who will be able to enter into this scheme on a voluntary basis, so that these receptionist children can conclude an employment contract involving the application of the general rules of labour law and of all social security legislation, including unemployment benefits, holiday pay and end-of-year premium. [[.]] [["]] A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Nahima Lanjri and by Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne, Stefaan Vercamer, David Clarinval, Egbert Lachaert and Jan Spooren. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Nahima Lanjri and Messrs. Vincent Van Quickenborne, Stefaan Vercamer, David Clarinval, Egbert Lachaert et Jan Spooren. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u74	Mr President, Minister, yesterday the second round table on workable work took place, specifically tailor-made work. Let me take a side jump because my question is of course already somewhat dated. It appears that we score fairly well from an international perspective on the classic working arrangements such as wages and working hours. It is, of course, always useful to update it. Real workable work, in the sense of allowing people to work longer effectively, is not really about saving holidays, but about what happens during the work itself, the extent to which people have autonomy and can decide on the tasks they carry out. Of course, it is not obvious for policy makers to have an impact on how work is organised in companies and organisations. However, what policy can do is support the shift to a more solid workplace. This is possible and, of course, the social partners are particularly important. I am not thinking of a government that lays down additional rules, but of a government that plays the role of partner, inspirator and catalyst. I have some questions about the round table that took place yesterday. Could you just point out who took part in that yesterday? What topic were on the agenda? You have already marked four fields, but were there any other topics on the subject? You actually went to the round table in June without a prior plan or a clear vision of the theme. You gave the partners a blank sheet. Is that different now? Do you already have any ideas about the direction to follow? Do you know specifically what the government itself can do to stimulate the workplace and make it more workable, because that is what this is about? Like I said, workable work is about more than vacation days. I know a website has been launched. What's the point of it? Will you shortly submit a more general proposal of approach?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u75	Mr President, Minister, I agree with you. Both Parliament and the government have looked at workable work. You took the initiative before the round table and you said that the social partners would have time to achieve results in a first phase until November. I'm reading now that there's not much on the table yet. You also said that you would discuss this with your federal colleagues responsible for Pensions and Health, which seems logical to me, as well as with your regional colleagues, which is equally logical. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have we already started discussions on this subject with your regional colleagues? How do you see this cooperation in practice? Can you give us an update on what is now going on? We have heard about it here and there, but I am happy to hear it from you. In the meantime, you have already taken a number of initiatives yourself. Are you indeed working with the government on proposals in case the social partners fail to reach agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u76	Mrs Kitir will receive the answers in writing. I shall now give the floor to Mr Vercamer. What a surprise, Mr Vercamer. Welcome to the Social Affairs Committee. The Minister is present. You were also present at the discussion of the dossier on workable work, in Ghent. I see you don't find your question, but I'll give it to you. After all, we are friendly people; a very good presidency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u77	Mr President, Minister, yesterday the Round Table on Workable Work was held, which launched, among other things, the track of collective agreement 104 for an age-conscious workforce policy, the career bill and the career savings and the fight against stress and burn-out. In the context of the second slope, the Minister recently made a move with his proposal to save holidays. What progress has been made on the four tracks of thought? Has there been a response from the social partners to the proposal on holiday days? Did they suggest any other slopes themselves yesterday? What does the further planning look like now? What agreements have been made on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we held a second round table on workable work, or on manoeuvrable work or tailor-made work, several points of view were discussed in the buildings of Axa Belgium in Watermaal-Bosvoorde. We did that there because Axa Belgium could show a number of very concrete examples of how they apply workable work. Who was all there? This time, compared with the first round table of 9 June, the list of participants was extended to include academics and advisors from fellow ministers and ministers themselves from the federal and regional levels. That is how I answer your question, Mr Spoorten. We have involved them and invited them. At the first round table we had confined ourselves to the members of the Group of Ten, the chairman of the NAR, the federations of occupational physicians and prevention advisers, as well as representatives of the external services responsible for prevention and protection at work. So we have expanded the group a bit. It is certainly also important that we have invited all the regional and federal ministers who have taken part, with the exception of Minister Borsus, who himself was present. At that time I underlined that, too, I want to do so here, because there is not a single miracle solution to achieve workable work for employers and employees. At present we have a view of a battery of possibilities that we want to incorporate together with the social partners. We still have to sort things out, but in total there are about 50 proposals from the social partners. There are, of course, proposals from the coalition agreement that we want to deliver. I also specifically said yesterday that we must now see that the package is balanced and that both the social partners and the National Labour Council, the government, this Parliament and the committee must consider how the matter will be dealt with in concrete terms, given the different perspectives. I know that this committee has the ambition to work on this, for which I am very grateful. Workable work is mostly tailor-made work. We believe in an approach at sectoral, company and individual level. We must ensure that initiatives are taken and that innovative approaches are taken not only with regard to the procedure for achieving results, but also with regard to those results themselves. An employer must be able to grow his business. For this, he needs flexible work organisation and motivated staff. The employee, the other aspect, must have the certainty of a job with sufficient balance in terms of professional challenge, time planning and carrying capacity. Workable work is about time, from clock time to time experience about mobility from fixed work stations with fixed hours to time- and place-independent work. It is about prevention and reintegration of long-term disabled people, and about being at the wheel of his career. These aspects can only work properly if the inspirational leadership in an organisation is also perceived as an important aspect. We have already taken a first important step forward in giving oxygen to organisations through the reduction of charges and the tax shift. Mr Spooren and Mr Vercamer, we have contacted and invited not only the federal but also the regional ministers of employment, SMEs, Pensions, Education, Civil Service and Health. Yesterday we asked the social partners to propose and briefly explain four top priorities. That is how we come up with some 50 proposals. I have already said that we are now taking steps forward. For example, the National Labour Council has already considered the sliding working hours. The National Labour Council has also looked at part-time work, administrative simplification and reintegration. So there are things that the social partners have already looked at and that we can move forward a little faster. As far as career savings are concerned, I have not heard any fundamental objections from the social partners. There is, of course, a lot of discussion about the modalities. This isn't just about the extra vacation days. The example of Colruyt was explained to us, where it has been applied in practice for a very long time. However, if an employee leaves the company, he should be able to take those additional holidays. We will come back to this at the beginning of next year because we want to do some study work on this first, for example on what these modalities will be and how this can be made possible for SMEs. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there was a second round table on workable work. No third party has yet been announced. Such round tables also have their limits. We've framed everything, and we need to meet a modus operandi right now. How are we going to deal with this from the different angles, taking into account the coalition agreement? There's still a lot of work on the shelf. I would also like to thank all the political proposals from both the majority and the opposition. I am grateful to everyone for this because all of this is taken into account in order to eventually achieve workable work. By the way, some are talking about www, manoeuvrable work. In my view, there are two points of view, namely from the point of view of employees and employers. We must find the right balance and balance. On the recently launched website "Belgie.be/travailsurmesure.belgique.be" we get a lot of reactions. This really lives with the people! As politicians, you will have experienced this as well. There is a lot of interest and a lot of ideas and reactions are expressed. I hope to be able to discuss the legislative initiatives in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u79	Minister, I agree with you that there is no miracle solution. Workable work has many facets. You know that we have the ambition to cooperate, including from the opposition. We have made a very interesting visit to a number of Flanders Synergy projects. In the process of change that the companies and organisations there undergo, everything begins with vision formation. I think this is important for us too, not only with regard to workable work, but to see where we can find each other on vision. I hope that you will be able to join me in saying that, in addition to the traditional issues of employment, there are also opportunities for the government to make a change to more decent workplaces. In Finland there is much more to it. That is a smaller country, but they involve a lot more companies than we do with Flanders Synergy, for example. I think an organization like Flanders Synergy is a very nice example of what is possible, including from the government. Vision is important, and strategy. It is also important that, as a minister, you set measurable targets first. How many companies do we want to involve? How many organisations do we want to reach within a certain time frame? You know that we have made a dozen proposals. I'm glad you want to take it with you. I do hope that we can continue to work constructively, including in these committees with a majority and opposition. When people say something about workable work in social media, they get a lot of reactions from very versatile people. It lives in all layers of the population. Advanced companies are really working on that. It concerns all of us. Certainly in the context of longer work measures, it is something that we must do quickly but also very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u80	Mr Minister, I would like to join Mr Willaert in his comments on the usefulness of this study trip that we have made. It was very interesting. The most important thing I have learned from this is that workable work is something that must be created at company level at the workplace by the managers and the employees. We are starting with a vision which must also be worked out. We were asked by policy makers, especially to create opportunities, space and flexibility, which allows us to install workable work at company level, or even at individual level. They also asked not to impose too many rules, administration and bureaucracy. A second thing that surprised me is that employees and employers at company level very quickly agreed on all these measures, but that they had the joint complaint that the social partners at macro level, i.e. at federal level, were much less flexible and cooperative than the social partners at company level. I think this is something you should bear in mind, not only at the round tables, but also at further discussions on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u81	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I agree with the previous speakers. The government can indeed create a framework in which we facilitate a number of things, allowing employees themselves to organise their career better in order to make it workable for them, according to their needs at certain times in their careers. In addition, it appeared on that day of study that the usefulness of work and its organisation on the company are at least as important. The question is whether we cannot integrate an accompanying approach such as Flanders Synergy into the training policy of lifelong learning of companies or into the training initiatives that companies have to take. That seems to be an important fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u82	Mr. Secretary, as Prime Minister, you founded Flanders Synergy. The committee visited that and it was a very educational visit. We have seen, among other things, that the White-Yellow Cross has completely adapted its organisation, so that now there is a desire to work there. I'm not for the term workable work. I have the impression that there is a lot of work that is not workable. It's about working with desire and passion. That's a better term. This is also possible in call centres, for example. The people who run this group, Mieke Van Gramberen and co, do that very well. We have found, with several Members of Parliament, the majority and opposition, that the way in which they translate that concretely into a company really works. It would be good, as Mr Vercamer said, to involve them in this. This is done with few national rules. There are, of course, obstacles here and there, but it is seen to be inspiring. That is the path that should be followed. Thank you for the debate, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u83	Debates of the European Parliament Mr de Lamotte's 6785 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u84	Mr President, Minister, in response to a previous question concerning bogus self-employment, you told me that there would be an evaluation of legislation on the nature of employment relations. This legislation plays an important role in the fight against bogus self-employment, a problem which cannot always be dealt with effectively with by the current regulations, because it must be judged on the basis of different criteria whether one is dealing with genuine independence or with false self-employment. Apparently, these different criteria are very difficult to apply in practice in a number of sectors because this is a very complex system. You promised that you would evaluate that and that that evaluation would be ready by September 2015. Is this evaluation done? What are the main conclusions? How do you intend to adapt the legislation so that it will be more efficient? How is the existing list of criteria related to bogus self-employment assessed? To what extent would it be extended to other sectors or will it be adapted first? How is better control possible in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lanjri, by letter of 22 April 2015, the question of evaluation of the law on the nature of employment relations was addressed to the National Labour Council, the High Council for Self-employed Persons and small and medium-sized enterprises and the General Management Committee for the Social Status of Self-employed Persons. On 6 July 2015, all these organisations jointly requested that this evaluation be postponed. In consultation with Minister Borsus and Secretary of State Tommelein, a postponement was granted until 1 January 2016, because we believe that a qualitative evaluation is necessary, as effective application of this law is essential to address social dumping and social fraud, among other things. As you rightly point out, the criteria to be examined in specific sectors for the application of the law on rebuttable suspicion are in practice very difficult to apply, inter alia because of their diversity. Without prejudging the evaluation of the social partners, I can already say that my administration has also made a number of comments and points of concern. On the one hand, the criteria laid down in the law could be reviewed in the light of current reality. The operation of the Administrative Commission for the settlement of the employment relationship which has a contract of social dumping but which is invoked only to a limited extent could also be reviewed. On the other hand, attention must be paid to the wider international context of the problem of false self-employment. At the time of the drafting of the law, the main aim was to address the problem of labour relations at national level. However, it is becoming increasingly apparent that the problem of bogus self-employment extends far beyond national borders and that this issue also needs to be addressed or addressed within a transnational framework. At this level, there is not yet sufficient framework and effective regulation. This form of cross-border false self-employment is not only deloyal competition vis-à-vis the employees but also vis-à-vis the self-employed who develop activities in good faith on the Belgian market.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u86	As you say, Minister, this is indeed a problem that we are seeing. Your administration and the social partners also note that there are problems with social dumping and forms of bogus self-employment. Sometimes this is accompanied by social dumping. People are sometimes forced to do a particular job on which the label of self-employed is stuck while they are not self-employed. It is a pity that the evaluation has not yet been completed. On the other hand, I fully understand the need for a proper evaluation. If it takes two more months, I will be patient for two more months and ask you this question again at the beginning of January, hoping that the comments that your administration has will also be included in the evaluation and that we will be ready in time. I know that Commissioner Marianne Thyssen is also working on this issue at European level. It is important for us to be able to give our findings in Belgium if we need a European response to this. I therefore hope that we will not be late and that we can effectively pass this on to the European Commissioner in good time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u87	Mr President, my question No. 6809 may be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u88	The ConstruBadge, a personal, visual identifier for every construction worker, was still facing some difficulties in the past. For example, despite the obligation, the ConstruBadge was found not to be enforceable on the premises. I heard that in Chapter V of the Law of 4 August 1996, on the welfare of workers in the performance of their work, the so-called welfare law, you would make an amendment and that an RB would be made, specifically for the construction sector. At what time will the Welfare Act be amended? To what extent will an amendment to the Welfare Act have an impact on employees of foreign origin? What plans are there for an extension of the ConstruBadge system in itself? What initiatives are currently being taken? What's the timing for that? What do you expect from the social partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u89	The ConstruBadge in construction has been introduced through a collective agreement. If the collective agreement is declared generally binding, the badge may be imposed on all employers and employees belonging to the competent joint committee. If the ConstruBadge is intended to apply to other sectors of activity relating to construction, in the broadest sense of the word, it will not be sufficient to declare the collective agreement generally binding. A new legal framework must then be created. The other sectors of activity will fall within the competence of another Joint Committee. It is therefore currently being examined, together with the administration, in what way that legal framework can best be shaped.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u90	Mr. Secretary, I don't see the timing yet. People have been talking about extending the ConstruBadge for a long time. This is being investigated. Can you give me an indication? When do you expect this to be completed and to know how to adapt it in the law?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u91	If I am not mistaken, next week there will be a contact between my cabinet and the administration to give concrete form to the arrangement. I understand very well that you are calling for this to be done as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u92	Mr President, Minister, on 14 October 2015, the FGTB was on the site of Tour & Taxis in Brussels, at the foot of the premises of the Federation of HR Service Providers (Federgon). On that day, the union wanted to be heard and to express its willingness to see the one-day contracts abolished. It should be noted that, each year, 85 per cent of the proposed interim contracts are on a daily basis and that such contracts are the cause of abuse. These are totally precarious contracts and the ultimate flexibility for the interims. It goes without saying that temporary employment is above all a tool of flexibility for companies. While the use of temporary workers is increasingly being used by employers to cope with temporary fluctuations in production, it also plays a significant role in labour market integration and can be a real opportunity for integration and experience. Moreover, it is very often the case today that companies hire a worker as an interim worker and then have him sign an open-ended contract. However, you will agree with me that one-day contracts do not reinforce this opportunity. They only make it possible to compensate for temporary situations. In addition, temporary workers will not gain experience at the end of this working day. Today, Federgon remains on his position regarding one-day employment contracts. Minister, do you intend to take action on one-day employment contracts? Federgon believes, for its part, that these daily contracts are necessary in sectors such as Horeca, which may be the case. It might be useful to have a study carried out on that subject. But do you think, minister, that they are really essential for the other sectors? As Minister for Social Concertation, have you had the opportunity to meet Federgon and the trade union organisations in order to promote consensus?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u93	Mr President, Mr Massin, I have here a clarification of the legal situation to date, but I will be brief, because we know the legal situation very well. The system put in place was approved at the time by all the social partners. If there is to be a change, it is up to the social partners to put the subject back on the negotiating table and to decide at the second round table on sustainable work. This theme has indeed been put forward by one of the organizations. However, I want to be clear about this: this discussion must take place within the social partners. Where one or two organisations are seeking amendments, it is up to the social partners to discuss them with a view to reaching a consensus.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u94	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u95	Mr Minister, in addition to our regular meetings in the Committee on Business, I will also encounter you more often in the future in this committee in the light of this problem, which I have inherited from a colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u96	I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u97	If you consider that a pleasure, I can only take it as a compliment. For more than 40 years, as you know, the law on port work of 8 June 1972, i.e. the Major Act, states that no one in port areas is allowed to carry out port work by workers other than authorized port workers. The loading and unloading of ships is of course a very dangerous profession and requires the right skills of workers. However, according to the Major Act, activities such as e-commerce and logistics are also covered by port labour if those activities take place physically in the port area. Elsewhere in this country employees in the sectors of e-commerce and logistics are not workers but employees. It's a non-existent argument, since it's the same kind of jobs. It is becoming even more difficult and we already notice this when jobs are threatened by the rather rigid and outdated legislation on port labour. The European Commission, too, has already turned its finger on our country for the Major Act and has asked us to amend it. The Major Act is indeed outdated and cumbersome, just the opposite of what a port as an economic leader of the country needs. That is why I would have liked to hear the following from you. Do you think that e-commerce and logistics are port labour? What do you think is the difference between e-commerce and logistics in a port area and beyond? Do you consider the importance of maintaining the rigidity of the Major law in relation to the possibility of losing thousands of jobs? What have you done to meet the demands of the European Commission? What is the state of play in this? In other words, what is the European Commission's response to your proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u98	Mr President, Minister, I will not repeat the introduction. Apparently, there has been a meeting with the European Commissioner. Five points have led to the initiation of proceedings against our country. It concerns the obligation to work with recognised port workers coming from a single pool, the restriction of freedom of choice for the duration of the contracts of employment, the prohibition of multitasking, the obligations surrounding the shift composition and the obligation to work with logistics port workers for logistics activities. Minister, what arguments have you used to convince Europe about these different elements? What are the next steps? What agreements were made on this? Within what time will the European Commission tell us whether the argument you have put forward convinces and is maintained by the Commission, which has solved the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u99	Mr Minister, you have the floor. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u100	Mr President, Mr Lachaert has also tabled another question. (...): You must not forget the liberals, Mr President!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u101	I already know what he'll say. Mr Lachaert, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u102	Mr President, Minister, I will not repeat myself. In March 2014, the European Commission had already flagged us with the Major Act. As Mr Vercamer says, a consultation between yourself and the European Commissioner for Transport took place on 23 October 2015. There would have been some creative solutions put forward on the protected status of port workers, but apparently they would not be enough. What solutions did you propose there, Minister? What is the Commissioner's answer? How do you see the progress of the approximation of that legislation? Do you see the feasibility of presenting a new proposal by the end of this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u103	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with what I could end up with. A new meeting has been scheduled with the European Commissioner in the next few weeks. I therefore hope that we will be able to take further steps. It is true that Belgium has been failed and that procedure can lead to a conviction, unless we succeed in convincing the Commissioner that we are modernising the Major Act to the extent that the Commission no longer sees any infringement of European legislation, in particular Article 49 of the European Convention. I will finish later, but that shows that you will probably be able to ask a question or several questions on the subject. Now, however, I am trying to clarify the situation as well as the situation. After all, it is about a dossier of very great importance to all of us. It is also a file that regularly gets to the newspapers after certain statements in one direction or the other. I would like to make it clear that there is port labour, logistics and e-commerce. I sometimes get the impression that these three things are mixed up. As you know, port labour is the work carried out in the port areas, which includes all the handling of goods transported by ship, rail or lorry and all the services related to those goods. This work can only be carried out by authorized port workers, as the Major Act now provides. Within port labour there is a specific definition of logistics port labour. This concerns the treatment of goods that also adds value to the product. It is not just unloading and loading, but also packing the goods into smaller units. That's port work. Logistics is the treatment of goods and is located under several joint committees, as well as complementary activities of another committee, such as chemistry, as well as specific committees, in particular Committee 140 for workers, Committee 226 for international trade in port areas and Joint Committee 301 when added value is created. This means that there is a definition for logistics, but that logistics is mainly covered by several joint committees. As you all know, e-commerce is a commercial activity and as such is not included in the terms of competence of joint committees. These may include both activities carried out in the joint distribution committees and activities carried out in the joint logistics committees. It may even be about other activities. Thus, e-commerce is not necessarily covered by port labour. In short, logistical or e-commerce activities in the port area are not necessarily port labour. Cases on a case-by-case basis must be examined which joint committee is covered. There's some confusion about that. It is believed that by changing the Major Act, one automatically changes the joint committee from 301 to 226, for example. I sometimes get the impression that it is mainly about the joint committee under which one falls rather than the fact that the Major Act is not in conformity with European legislation, including as regards the free choice of workers. The Major Act or the Law of 8 June 1972 on port labour provides that no worker in the port area may carry out port labour by workers other than authorized port workers. What all port labour entails is further specified in the Royal Decree defining the area of competence of the Joint Committee for the port company. The recognition of port workers and the classification in the general and logistical quota can be found in the Royal Decree of 5 July 2004 on the recognition of port workers in port areas covered by the Law of Major. In 2001, the predecessor of the 2004 KB was adapted precisely to give logistics services a clear, streamlined place in the port event. A distinction was made between the general and the logistics quota. That was introduced as well. It is clear that logistics contingent workers also carry out port labour in the port area. To the extent that e-commerce companies carry out logistics activities, as referred to in the regulations I mentioned, because e-commerce can cover a lot and needs to be clearly aligned, this is also about port labour. There was also a question about the situation in which logistics and e-commerce workers are employees elsewhere in the country and not workers. I would like to point out that the joint committee for the port company is a joint committee with both workers and servants. So it is not because one is a servant that one cannot be included in the joint committee for the port company. In the case of logistical activities on behalf of third parties outside the scope of the Joint Committee 301, there are several joint committees. There are also two joint committees responsible for logistics on behalf of third parties: Joint Committee 140 for workers and Joint Committee 226 for servants. Both inside and outside the port area are therefore found in the logistics activities both workers and servants. With this perhaps somewhat complex explanation, I would like to emphasise that there are two elements: firstly, the modernisation of port legislation, in particular the Major Act, and secondly, the very important discussion on the joint committees. Until the end of the year, we still have the opportunity to make e-commerce and night work possible in those joint committees. The latter is a different debate. Europe has not made any comments on our joint committees, but the problem is on the table. As far as the modernisation of port labour is concerned, the first priority is to ensure that the European Commission's notice of default is stopped. You know Spain has been convicted. Europe grinds slowly, but surely: if certain things do not comply with European law, a country will be fined. Spain will have to answer that. Mr Monica De Coninck made a first attempt under the previous government to convince the European Commission to stop the letter of formal notice. When we inherited the competence and the file, we informed the Commissioner that, in consultation with the social partners, we would like to make every effort to come up with a proposal which meets the comments and elements on which Europe bases itself in order to fail and possibly condemn us. The meeting to which you refer took place on 23 October. We then explained the proposals and the state of the social dialogue. The Commissioner and the officials have asked additional questions. Those additional questions are now being considered. We hope that in the next meeting with the Commissioner, which is scheduled for this year, we will be able to give an answer to the pertinent questions of Europe which are best consulted with the social partners. Either the Commissioner will deal with the proposals put forward by the social partners together with the Minister and we will be free of the formal notice. Either the Commissioner says that it is not enough and then we will have to look at how we proceed further. I hope, however, that it will be possible to take this step together with the social partners. I would like to emphasise that the first priority is to stop Europe's default. I am well aware that there are other discussions such as the joint committees and a number of other issues that we need to address. But it is a completely different situation if we manage to put an end to the default by means of social dialogue than if we fail to convince the Commissioner to stop this procedure by means of social dialogue. As far as the content of the proposals is concerned, the Commissioner has asked for it not to be too publicised. I hope you understand. The social partners have also tried very loyally not to explode the game by explaining everything to the public and responding to certain challenging theories. That's a sign that everyone wants to get out. Whether that will succeed, we will know at the end of this year or at the beginning of next year, after the second meeting with the Commissioner.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u104	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your detailed and very technical answer. I hope I can get a copy of it because I haven't been able to write it all down. That way I can look at it thoroughly again. I think you are right to say that we must try to find a solution in as serene a way as possible. I would also like to say very explicitly that we support you in continuing to emphasise the safety aspect of loading and unloading ships when modernising the Major Act. Let there be no discussion that this is a very specific job for which one must be properly trained. Everything is connected, but not entirely. We both know this. Apart from that, the problems of logistics and e-commerce are particularly pressing. In this respect, we may not be at risk of European condemnation, but of very serious job losses. If this government wants to bet on a case, it's jobs, jobs, jobs. I think we should look at how we can make this system more flexible. Whether you put something in a packaging in Geel along the autostrade or you do this in Antwerp next to a dock, this remains the same job and it should also be regulated in the same way. I believe that we should move away from the geographical aspect of job classification, but look at the content of the technical requirements and the level of protection that are absolutely necessary for each job. I hope you'll give me some good news in a few weeks' time with regard to the notice of default. The sooner we can stop that process, the easier we will get out. If we cannot resolve this process, the consequences will only get worse.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u105	Mr President, Minister, your answer alone shows that it is indeed a very complex and sensitive dossier and I very much appreciate the efforts made to get out of it together with the social partners. However, the following is not clear to me. Suppose you have an agreement with the social partners in Belgium on a proposal and that the Commissioner does not think it is enough, will we get a formal njet or is that an intermediate moment and can we change it after that interview?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u106	The Commissioner will then judge whether the procedure will continue, which is the next step, and I assume that this is the reasoned opinion, so that we can finally reach a verdict. The Commissioner has said that if we come up with a social consultation proposal, she will train for a while. We have been trying to reach an agreement with the social partners for a few months now. If we have an agreement that she does not think is sufficient, she can say that she is going to go on or that we will have another chance. However, the social partners also have their limits in the search for consensus. The Commissioner can then consider that she has given enough time, that what the social dialogue has brought about is not enough to stop the procedure and that it will continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u107	So it's not a formal end date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u108	No, at the moment it is the Commissioner's wish to get out on the basis of a social agreement or amendment of the law. It can also say that the letter of formal notice has been sent, that it simply continues and that Belgium is heading for a conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u109	Mr President, Minister, I would like to take up what Mr Vercamer says. I think that the social partners should also know which direction this dossier is heading. The first discussion in October may have made a number of points clear, and hopefully it will encourage them to come to a solution together. The absolute preference is for the social partners, in consultation, to come forward with a proposal that can respond to this letter of formal notice. It would be a shame if that were not the case. Then the consequences for our country would be different. I hope, together with you, that the social partners will come up with something that you will be sold in Europe and that will respond to the concerns that have been expressed for some time, including by my party. I had another question about the joint committees. That question was converted into a written question. I would like to come back to that, because I have read the answer and I have a problem. When an employer asks for an opinion on a particular joint committee that applies to him, there is not really an appeal procedure. One can only go to the labour court if one provokes a discussion with the RSZ, but one has no option of appealing against an opinion. There is still a great deal of uncertainty about this and no solution has yet been found.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u110	Mr Lachaert, one can always ask the Inspection to review that and then a new inspection report will be presented. It's not a failure accompli. You have often asked for the number of joint committees to be simplified. I understand that very well, especially when it comes to relatively competitive activities, especially under the Joint Committee 226 or 301. That makes a big difference. bpost is covered by a specific joint committee. This is a very legitimate problem that we must address. That's what the coalition agreement says. Here too, the speed is somewhat lower because we want to involve social dialogue. I hope that we will succeed and that it will be more sustainable than if we just fly in.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u111	Finally, the problem is often that I have also said in my question that the RSZ very often applies the new joint committee, which was once formulated in an opinion. It is not so obvious to defend you as an employer, because your contributions are already being paid. If that committee is challenged, it will be subject to a very long procedure with a very long period of uncertainty. The inspection does not often change its mind if it has just given an opinion. There should be a better procedure in this area. I hope this can be taken into account in the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u112	We will conclude the work with Minister Peeters here. The rest of the questions will be added to the debate on the budget which will take place here on 2 December. There are still about eight questions left. Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 5721 and No. Mrs Kitir converted 6914 into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u113	Mr Secretary of State, a foreign employer can temporarily send workers to Belgium to perform work. That work must be reported through the so-called Limosa declaration. This declaration does not allow the number of days worked by the worker to be inferred, but rather the estimated period of the probable duration of employment. In Dimona, however, the number of effective days is given. In short, more information about Belgian employees is collected than about foreign colleagues who are temporarily employed here. What is preventing our country from requesting the same information from foreign workers? For what reason can foreign workers who are temporarily employed here not be subject to the same registration obligations as their Belgian colleagues?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u114	Mr Raskin, first of all I would like to refer to question No. 6224. I have already indicated in my reply to that question that it is highly questionable to request additional documents from a sending State in the light of the free movement of persons and services. I regret that, too, but it seems to give rise to further discussions. There is no question of announcing additional formalities, as Europe considers this to be a possible obstacle to free movement. I want to ensure that the further roll-out of Limosa in Europe is not jeopardised. Limosa is a unique instrument. I would like other countries in Europe to have the same system. Article 9 of the Enforcement Directive provides for the possibility of a type of notification. On the basis of that provision, the different administrations are currently considering what additional elements could be included in Limosa's reporting obligation. For example, a contact person designated by the employer can be mentioned. The plan for fair competition in construction includes a number of targeted improvements, which are currently being carried out by the RSZ, such as the obligation to provide a European VAT number already applicable, the indication of the number of known yard addresses or the indication of the act as contractor or subcontractor. Additional entries must pass the proportionality test anyway. A complete alignment with the Dimona message, as you suggest, therefore seems impossible to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u115	Mr Secretary of State, your predecessor did indeed ask for more information from the foreign workers who were temporarily employed here than from their own employees. That clashed with European borders and could not be for Europe. That's perfectly understandable. The result is that the limosa declaration today is very limited. So I am not questioning freedom of movement, let us be very clear, but we note that the current rules are very minimal. Are you sure it can't be anything anymore? I would therefore like to hear that the additional elements are being examined. Who knows where we can go? It should not be our ambition to ask foreign workers for more information than their own, but the system used is too limited to deal with social fraud. Can we really not do better without conflicting with European restrictions? I would ask you to include that in the examination of additional elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u116	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, you have repeatedly stressed the need to combat social dumping. Many political groups, and myself for the PS Group, have come back several times on this issue. Our common will is to find concrete answers, measures and means to combat social dumping. We're here in front of an opportunity. Indeed, in the context of the transposition of directives on public procurement and following the action of one of my former colleagues, Mr Tarabella, at European Parliament level, there is an interesting development with the possibility of adopting pioneering, progressive and truly effective legislation to combat social dumping. Yet it must be transposed into a maximalist logic in terms of opportunities. As we know, these directives must be transposed into our legislation before April 2016. At the level of the Prime Minister's Chancellery, a working group was set up on a draft transposition bill. I think he's been ready since September. According to my information, few opportunities would be seized. I was hoping to see a series of concrete measures in this draft, but they are not there, in particular with regard to clear restrictions on subcontracting, rules to avoid unfairly low prices, temporary economic unemployment when secondees are used. Secretary of State, have you participated in this working group within the Chancellery? Are you going to change this draft law before it is presented to Parliament in a few weeks and put the issue of social dumping at the heart of the law for transposing directives on public procurement? I know it's not just the theme, but it's an aspect and it's an opportunity, as I was telling you right now. Will you, as the social partners unanimously demand, translate it into a maximalist approach? Have you had and are you going to have contact with the other levels of power, with the federated entities, in order to consult on the fight against social dumping? Will you try, through this transposition or other legislative arrangements, to integrate the various initiatives taken in particular at the local level or the proposals put forward by the opposition? I think there really is a need to work together. I look forward to hearing your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u117	Mr President, my colleague, as you have said, the Prime Minister's bill was already approved by the Council of Ministers on September 24, 2015. The Council of State is currently considering the draft. A second reading at the Council of Ministers will follow. A working group will be set up before the end of the year, at the initiative of the Prime Minister's Office and myself, to study the impact of the implementation of the above measures, particularly in the context of public procurement. The Public Procurement Service of the SPF Chancellery of the Prime Minister is responsible for the transposition of the directive into Belgian law. My firm has always followed the work very conscientiously. I asked the Prime Minister to work as quickly as possible. Transposition is requested not only by the social partners in the construction sector, but also by myself, because it is a very important tool in the fight against social fraud. Contrary to what you say, I am interested in the views of the social partners and the fight against social dumping. The fight against social dumping is one of the Government's priorities. This Act has been the subject of special attention throughout its drafting on this issue. As part of this fight, the following measures are proposed, particularly in the construction sector. This is the plan for fair competition of 8 July 2015: limitation of the number of subcontractors in the vertical chain (up to two per specialty) and extension of the approval required as an entrepreneur to all subcontractors in the chain. In addition, the mandatory price review as set out in the new legislation on public procurement is an important tool in the fight against social dumping. I have also asked Mr Michel to set up a working group which must accompany the adaptations of the decrees and the fixing of the modalities. These could be as follows: price examination as a general principle for all public contracts; examination of the regularity of tenders; exclusion of entries at an abnormally low price, e.g. through a mechanism of deviation of 15% from the average. Finally, the federated entities are not yet consulted, but they will be consulted in the next steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u118	Secretary of State, I thank you for your answers, which confirm your intentions on 8 July 2015. I would like us to move from the plan to legislation, so that we can act on the ground. I'm really counting on you. In any case, I am glad that we can have this debate in committee, because we are directly concerned with this subject. That is why, as a representative of a local authority, I hope that we can be involved and that we can apply this project to public procurement. As I understand it, we make an appointment in a few weeks to discuss it more concretely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u119	Mr President, Secretary of State Jean-Claude Juncker, at his inauguration as President of the European Commission, committed himself to a targeted revision of the posted workers directive. I would remind you, but you are aware that Germany, with 400,000 posted workers, France 200 000 and Belgium 130 000, are the European countries with the largest number of posted workers. I am therefore pleased that Marianne Thyssen is moving forward on this issue with a tight timetable. It is due to present a package of reforms on 7 December at the next meeting of Employment Ministers. Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about a number of points relating to these future Commission proposals and the requirements of Belgium on this matter. We know the tares of the 1996 directive and how its spirit has been diverted, the sectoral impact studies, the subsequent corrections which are difficult to measure positive influence. A third attempt must be the right one. The Commissioner stated that she wanted first to implement the directive on the application or enforcement of the posting of workers. States have until 18 June 2016 to do so. What is the status of Belgium on this point? Can you tell us what corrective effects this text contains? Marianne Thyssen wishes to apply the "principle of equal pay for equal work within the same place of work" for posted workers. Marianne Thyssen therefore hopes that local and posted workers will receive the same wage. The Reform Movement is also in favour of this proposal. How does the federal government intend to support this position? How can we take into account the concerns of the countries that job seekers leave, especially given the risk of brain drain and the concerns of the countries where they want to move to work? In order to strengthen the fight against fraud and social dumping, the rules must be clear and, above all, applied by all. How can this aspect of the directive be strengthened?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u120	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I have a similar question. Mrs Thyssen has been regularly mentioned in the media over the past few weeks. One of the topics on which it was questioned was the issue of social dumping. In several interviews, she reiterated her intention to adapt the 1996 European Posting of Workers Directives to reality. Her creed reads: equal pay for equal work in the same place. I have the following brief questions, Minister. As long as the Posting of Workers Directive is not amended in the field of social security, the problem of social dumping will not be eliminated. The creed should be: equal pay and equal social security for equal work. Do you agree with me that this supplement is essential? Have you already mentioned the importance of this supplement to Mrs Thyssen? What was her reaction to that? If not, are you prepared to draw Mrs Thyssen's attention to the importance of revising the Posting of Workers Directive, particularly in the area of social security? Are you prepared to start a debate in the short term on the possibility of collecting a social contribution in the working country, in order to reach a united Belgian position? Are you also prepared to hold this debate with our neighbouring countries which face the same problem of unfair competition? In an interview with De Standaard on 23 October, Mrs Thyssen indicated that she was not fond of the piste. In her view, the collection of social contributions in the working country would lead to too much administrative burden. Do you agree to her vision? How do you think this administrative burden can be kept to a minimum?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u121	Mr President, Mr Clarinval, a preliminary draft law which provides for the transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the implementation of Directive 96/71/EC on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services will be submitted by my colleague the Minister for Employment and myself to the National Labour Council. It will then be put on the agenda of the Council of Ministers. This preliminary draft was initially the subject of consultation with the social partners in the construction sector, which is specifically referred to in a provision of the Directive. This consultation led to adaptation proposals which are being incorporated into the text of the preliminary draft. In addition, this preliminary draft contains measures which will provide inspection services with more tools to combat secondment fraud. The inspection will, for example, have the possibility to better control the temporary nature of the secondment and to better control the existence of a substantial activity in the country of origin of the undertaking. At each detachment, a contact person will be assigned to the company and the inspection may request to see certain documents, translated into English if necessary. In particular with regard to the construction sector within the meaning of the Directive, joint and several liability for the payment of the minimum wages in force will be reinforced. Let me first discuss within the government the strengthening of joint responsibility for the payment of wages before I speak to Parliament on this subject. Ensuite, vous rappelez le principle "equal pay for equal work on the same site." Mrs Thyssen defended in her Dublin speech the idea that posted workers should receive a real wage, not the minimum wage, identical to that of local workers employed in the same job in the same place. I therefore share your and your party's views on Mrs Thyssen's proposal. This provides additional protection for seconded employees from Eastern Europe. In this way, the Commission will be able to express its demands on the organisation of new controls on abuses. The aim is to achieve a win-win situation. I also share your concern about the possible imbalance between the needs of the countries that job seekers leave and those of the countries where they move to work. However, you know that the principle of the free movement of persons and services is one of the fundamental values of the European Union. Besides, a law that we don't control is useless. We all agree on this. This also applies to an imprecise law. That is why I have included in the "Plan for fair competition in the construction sector" a measure aimed at organising a campaign to raise awareness of social dumping among citizens and the authorities. This campaign will provide information on what is legal or not, as well as on how to work legally. Of course, the strengthening of the fight against social fraud requires more targeted controls. In conclusion, I can tell you that, like you, I look forward to the accompanying measures which Mrs Thyssen will announce on 7 December at the next meeting of the Ministers for Employment. In any case, it will be necessary to organise measures to combat social dumping, both at Benelux and at European level. Mr Raskin, in reply to your question, first of all, I would like to say that labour law is not the same as social security. There's a difference. Supplementing equal pay and social security is not realistic. For social security, there is only coordination but no harmonisation. The enforcement directive to which you refer has no impact on this. So if we want to change something about social security, we need to adapt the European Social Security Regulation, which in fact has nothing to do with the Enforcement Directive. On the other hand, there is labour law. Posting concerns labour law, wage and working conditions and the Posting of Workers Directive, which is now complemented by the Enforcement Directive. With regard to the collection of social security contributions in the working country, I invited Mrs Thyssen to the Benelux Conference on 30 November 2015, i.e. in less than two weeks' time, here in Brussels. The conference deals with the role of regional cooperation in the European fight against social dumping. Mr Raskin, as you know, I believe in regional cooperation to tackle the problem. I hope that by then I will be able to get further indications on Mrs Thyssen's mobility package. The collection of social contributions in the working country is a suggestion that I have already made on several occasions. However, all the indications I get about this state that this would not be realistic. Mrs Thyssen gave a speech in Dublin with her vision of labour mobility. It has announced a study on the optimization of social security coordination, because it has little room for manoeuvre. It wants stricter rules or controls on abuses that are beneficial to Western Europe. I agree that there should be equal pay for equal work in the same place, but that means that those who work temporarily in Belgium should not be paid the sectoral minimum wage but a real wage, net so a little more for the posted worker, that is correct. More protection, however, is particularly beneficial for Eastern Europe. This is therefore, in fact, a political balance at European level. As far as strengthening the A1 procedure is concerned, I would also like to make a plea for that. This is about social security and it is therefore beneficial for Western Europe. You are asking me to continue the debate on social contributions in the working country. It is not evident, nor is it in the coalition agreement. It's a piste I launched myself in my early days as Secretary of State. I have also spoken about it with former European President Herman Van Rompuy and with Mrs Thyssen. I remain in favour of collecting the RSZ in the working country, after which the contributions will be paid. The question is whether we will be able to achieve this effectively. Of course, we are also asking for the procedure for assessing the A1 forms to be optimised and for the reform of the European Administrative Commission for Disputes on A1 attestations to be improved. You are absolutely right that it would not be good for us to have A1 tests and not be able or allowed to check for their authenticity. I am sending a very clear signal to Europe in this respect that it is absolutely necessary to review this and to make additional instruments and resources available for this purpose in order to better monitor and address it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u122	Minister, thank you for your answer. I fully share your view on the desire to incorporate a whole series of progress in this area through the transposition of the directive. I understand that you do not speak out on joint responsibility until there is agreement in the government. In any case, I encourage you to move forward in this direction. I also note that we are on the same page in relation to Mrs Thyssen's statements and we hope that she will be able to move in the right direction. I also hear your answer to my colleague, Mr Raskin. I fully share your point of view. It would indeed be good if the contributions of countries and companies coming from outside could be collected here through ONSS, with ONSS transmitting this money back to the countries of origin. In my view, this would be the most effective measure to protect workers but also to avoid unfair competition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u123	I would like to add my voice to that last note by Mr Clarinval. You rightly say, Mr Secretary of State, that the debate on collecting these social security contributions in the working country is not included in the government agreement. Today, and also in recent weeks, I think I have noticed that there are more and more voices going on across the political groups to conduct the debate. Let us take advantage of the absence of the coalition agreement to show the outside world how united we can adopt positions outside the coalition agreement. You're looking at your spokesperson, and that may be tweeted immediately. We all agree. I do not think it should be an obstacle to that debate. If you say that you hear or get voices everywhere that this is unrealistic, let us deal with the administrative burden that would stand in the way. Unless I've misunderstood you, but I think it's mostly that that's in the way. Let us tackle this and eliminate this unfair competition, because as long as we do not equal social security, the problem will not be solved. We must eliminate this unfair competition. As long as social security is not treated in the same way, the problem will not be solved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-18-54-commissie-ic272x.u124	Mr President, allow me to respond briefly. Mr Raskin, I am on the same side. By the way, we have already proved that we can go beyond the coalition agreement by this majority. We did so, for example, with regard to overtime for the catering industry, of which there is nothing in the coalition agreement, and yet we have united ourselves on the same issue. This also happened after I noticed that there was a problem and despite the fact that there was nothing in the coalition agreement. In the situation you are now presenting, you are right. I'm gonna stay on your side, because I think you and I should be able to make that adjustment. However, to those who go into politics, like my children, I teach that if they want to get right somewhere, they must obtain a majority. The majority we need to find in this area should not only be looking in Belgium, but also in Europe. That is why I believe in regional partnerships such as the Benelux, the Baltic Assembly or the Nordic Council. So I'm looking for allies in Europe. If you want to look with me, maybe we can get there.
