ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u1	Mr President, Minister, the Act of 22 May 2014 provides in particular that:1) "The Minister of Justice establishes for the conversion of usufruct two conversion tables: one for men and the other for women. These conversion tables express the value of the usufruct as a percentage of the normal market value of the usufruct encumbered assets, taking into account: - the average interest rate over the last two years of linear maturity bonds equal to the life expectancy of the usufructuary; - Belgian forward-looking mortality tables published annually by the Federal Office of the Plan." (2) "The Minister of Justice shall, on 1 July of each year, establish the conversion tables referred to in paragraph 1. It takes into account, on this occasion, (...) the proposals transmitted to it by the Royal Federation of Belgian Notariat after having read the results of the work of the Federal Office of the Plan and the Institute of Actuaries in Belgium. The conversion tables are published each year in the Belgian Moniteur. These tables indicate, in relation to the age of the usufructuary, its life expectancy and the corresponding interest rate and value of the usufruct." The conversion tables for usufruct published on 15 January 2015 by the Belgian Moniteur as an annex to the ministerial decree of 22 December 2014 are based on the average OLO interest rate during the period from 1 May 2012 to 30 April 2014. On this occasion, the Minister followed the letter sent on 16 July 2014 by the Federal Office of the Plan to the Royal Federation of Belgian Notaries, with a copy to the Institute of Actuaries in Belgium, containing the conversion tables and specifying the use of "the average of linear bond rates (OLO) for the period from 1 May 2012 to 30 April 2014". This precision is repeated at the bottom of the tables. The Ministerial Order of 22 December 2014 reproduces the tables of the Plan Bureau without, however, mentioning the reference period adopted. The ministerial decision to count the year from 1 May rather than 1 January does not fail to give rise to disputes. See in particular: - Mr. Puelinckx-Coene (Em. Professor U.A.). Unfortunately, the law of 22 May 2014 did not rest on the valuation of lifelong usufruct in the case of capitalization or in the conversion of the usufruct of the surviving wife or legally living together. À paraitre dance Magazine for Notaries, die Keure, 79th volume, June 6, 2015. - the letters addressed to the Minister of Justice by Professor Christian Jaumain (UCL) on 19 January 2015, 27 March 2015 and 27 May 2015. In Amendment No. 2 (Belgian Senate, 2013-2014 Session, Document 5-2338/2, February 12, 2014), which proposes: "- the average interest rate on the last two years of linear maturity bonds equal to the life expectancy of the usufructuary.It did not seem useful to specify that it was the last two calendar years, as any other annual period that would have met the legislator's wishes must necessarily be explicitly specified. The concept of "average interest rate over the last few years" is already present in the regulations (Royal Decree of 22 February 1991 on the general regulation on the supervision of insurance undertakings, Annex VI, Art. N6, 3; Royal Decree of 14 November 2003 on the activity of life assurance, art.31, §3) without it seems useful to specify that it is a matter of calendar years and without creating any problem of interpretation. On the other hand, the ministerial decision to count the year from 1 May rather than 1 January, as a result of the fall in interest rates, has the effect of systematically harming usufruct-makers, and particularly older usufruct-makers, who are often the poorest. Here are two numerical examples developed by Professor Jaumain: 1) The Ministerial Order of 22 December 2014 (M.B. 15 January 1962) is based on the average interest rate from 1 May 2012 to 30 April 2014 rather than from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2014. For an 80-year-old usufruct, the resulting usufruct is 77,000 euros instead of 83,650 euros (for a property of 500,000 euros). The damage caused to the usufructuary is therefore €6,650, i.e. 8.6% of the usufruct of the €77,000 allocated by the Ministerial Decree. 2) If the next Ministerial Order is based on the average interest rate from 1 May 2013 to 30 April 2015 rather than from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2015, the injury to usufructors will be even greater, due to the collapse of the rates during the first 4 months of 2015. For an 80-year-old usufruct, the resulting usufruct falls to 58,050 euros instead of 66,800 euros (for a property of 500,000 euros). The damage caused to the usufructuary is therefore 8,750 euros, i.e. 15,1% of the 58,050 euros of usufruct allocated by the ministerial decree. Dans son article, le professeur Puelinckx-Coene écrit: "But in any case, the notary who is responsible for its judicial transposition is obliged to apply the transposition tables, as published as an annex to the Ministerial Decree of 22 December 2014. However, it is not imaginary that an injured surviving wife or legally living together will challenge the legality of those tables at the Council of State in order to have them declared null and void: "Quoi qu &amp; soit, le notary chargé d'une conversion judiciaire est tenu d'appliquer les tables de conversion publications en annexe de l'arrêté minor du 22 décembre 2014. But it is not unimaginable that a surviving wife or a legal cohabitant so prejudiced does not contest these tables with the Council of State in order to have them cancelled. [[."]] Minister, my questions about this are as follows. 1) While the law provides that the average interest rate of the last two years must be applied for the assessment of usufruct, why did you choose to interpret the "last two years" as those beginning on 1 May and ending on 30 April rather than starting on 1 January and ending on 31 December? How can you respond to the criticism that your decision is arbitrary? 2) Does it not result from the interpretation of the law as established by the Ministerial Order, i.e. by counting the year from 1 May rather than 1 January, a systematic injury to usufructors and particularly to older usufructors? 3) What measures do you intend to take to avoid the harms calculated above and thus challenges in the future when the law was intended to ease these procedures?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Matz, in reply to your first question, it is indeed clear that the conversion tables take into account "the average interest rate over the last two years of linear bonds of maturity equal to the life expectancy of the usufructuary". However, it is not specified anywhere in the law when these years must begin. This is also not a result of the preparatory parliamentary work. Moreover, the law does not specify anywhere that these are calendar years. It seems logical to me, since the law provides that the new tables are drawn up on 1 July, that they are based on the most recent figures. This is in keeping with the legislator's desire to bring tables as closely as possible into line with reality. That is why it was decided to count from 1 May to 30 April. In addition, if the surviving spouse chooses, in accordance with Article 745ter of the Civil Code, to deposit the bank in a common account instead of the conversion of the usufruct, the bank will offer the most recent interest rates. I would like to point out that all procedures have been properly followed and that the decision has been taken taking into account the parameters mentioned in Article 745sexies §3, paragraphs 2 and 3 of the Civil Code and the proposals of the Royal Federation of Belgian Notariat after having read the results of the work of the Federal Office of the Plan and the Institute of Actuaries in Belgium. As far as your second question is concerned, it should be pointed out that the situation you are presenting at present exists, as you yourself indicate, because we are emerging from a period of lower interest rates. The fact that the valuation method currently used leads to a situation in which the usufructuary receives a lower amount in comparison with the method proposed by Professor Jaumain can be explained by the current economic situation. It is therefore not the result of the valuation method used which also already contains a mechanism correcting the impact of the largest fluctuations in interest rates, in particular the use of average interest rates over the last two years. The current economic situation seems to be less favourable for the usufructuary, but the opposite situation - an increase in interest rates - may well arise in the future. In such a situation, it will be in the interest of the usufructuary not to end the last two years on 31 December but on 30 April of the following year. This is therefore in no way a systematic harm to usufructors. Furthermore, if we used the calendar years as Mr.Jaumain proposes, there is nothing to say that the disadvantageous situation for the usufructuary that you describe in your question could not arise. For example, it is quite possible that the collapse of the rates you are talking about will occur one year or another in the last four months of the year rather than in the first four months, as in Professor Jaumain's second example. I do not see to what extent Mr Jaumain's method would be objectively fairer than ours. That said, the situation of usufructers has already been considerably improved thanks to the new starting point for the calculation of the value of usufruct introduced by the law of 22 May 2014. In the new procedure, the value of the usufruct is calculated in principle on the day of the submission of the request and no longer on the day of the conversion, which has a significant impact on the value of the usufruct in favour of the usufructuary and neutralizes the interest of the nu-owner to use dilatory manoeuvres. With regard to the particular harm to older usufructeries you are talking about, it should be pointed out that the difference between male and female tables is due to the difference between the life expectancy of both sexes. As the 80-year-old usufructuary of your examples has a greater life expectancy than a usufructuary of the same age, the value of usufruct will be higher in the case of usufructuary and if a conversion of usufruct was made, it will receive more. A fluctuation of interest rates at the top or bottom would increase or decrease the value of usufruct and usufruct to the same extent, but given the difference between the life expectancy of men and women and the resulting different value of usufruct, the actual effect on the amount received will be greater in the case of usufruct. However, it should be pointed out that the usufructuary will ultimately continue to receive more than the usufructuary regardless of the economic situation, and rightly so. A different situation, in this case a different life expectancy, requires different treatment. For all these reasons, it does not seem to me necessary or appropriate to take steps to change our method of valuation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u3	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u4	Mr President, Minister, as I announced in a previous question, I went to the Mons courthouse to see the condition of the building. What I have discovered here confirms the criticisms repeatedly expressed by the magistrates, lawyers, the staff who work there or the citizens who go there. In some courtrooms, the walls are deteriorating due to water infiltration. The paints splinter from floor to ceiling. On the other hand, the electrical installation would deserve a serious revision. The evidence room is overflowing. Not to mention the problems of acoustics or heating in the middle of winter. The working conditions are not obvious and, as the President of the Court of First Instance points out, there are good reasons to be uncomfortable with the people in the Mons-Borinage region who have been received under these conditions. I was able to see that the maintenance of the building was not guaranteed at all, when only a few improvements would be necessary to improve the state of the courthouse quickly. I am convinced that it could be restored cheaply with a little political will, so I would really like to hear from you, minister. With regard to the premises where exhibits are stored, not only have I been amazed by their large numbers – there are hundreds of firearms, white weapons, baseball bats, drugs, etc., and some objects have been there since 1970 – but I have been struck especially by the lack of space available. This creates, as you can imagine, serious problems not only for the security of the places but also for the work of the people assigned to archiving. Today, to remedy this, the president suggests the possibility of having a secure warehouse outside the court to store all exhibits, with provisions that would, of course, ensure their transport. Is this wish achievable, minister? In this context, do you think about various avenues to remedy the lack of space encountered at the Mons courthouse? Regarding the maintenance of the building, as mentioned in your answer to my previous question on this subject, do you intend to go to the Montois courthouse to take stock of the situation? Will investments and improvements finally be made knowing that the courthouse has not been refreshed for years?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u5	Mr President, Minister, the Verviers courthouse is in such a state of disrepair that some of the staff will have to move to another building in early 2016. The plan of the Régie des Bâtiments seems to be being implemented, but the extent of the renovation and the way in which you proceed depend on the decisions you make in your plan regarding the places of justice. The Régie des Bâtiments seems to be blocked by the reform of the justice system, which upsets initial planning. She pointed out that it was very likely that in future certain services of the courthouse would be transferred elsewhere and that, on the other hand, the courthouse would have to accommodate other jurisdictions. What will be the impact of the Justice Plan? The Régie does not know and wonders when the decisions will fall. Already in the current state of affairs, renovation work is expected to begin only in mid-2019, and the risks of the Justice Plan are likely to fall short of this deadline. In the meantime, working and reception conditions are unworthy. Like all the actors in Verviers' judicial world as well as the municipal officials, we are concerned about this situation, about the uncertainty surrounding this issue, about the conditions under which judicial staff are obliged to work and the litigants. Indeed, the proper maintenance of this place of justice and of all its judicial components is fundamental for the city of Verviers and the entire division of the judicial district. Minister, what steps are you going to take to ensure that the courthouse in Verviers is maintained in a safe and dignified manner for the accused as well as for the judiciary in the coming months and years? In what time frame do you envisage these measures as well as the complete renovation of the palace? Can you confirm that the courthouse, with all its jurisdictions, will be well maintained in your Justice Plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me refer to the Justice Plan, in which I explain that the large number of Justice buildings must be thoroughly streamlined. This exercise is not an easy task; many factors and actors must be taken into account. We are doing this. Today, I can already provide you with some information regarding the buildings of Mons and Verviers. In Mons, I was able to see the existence of very beautiful new buildings of justice. However, my services are looking for a lasting solution for the filing of exhibits in the courthouse. In order to decongeste the evidence storage area, premises in the Nimy 89 street building have been renovated to store some of them. In addition, this solution has made it possible to secure the area dedicated to exhibits within the palace, including through cameras and enhanced access control. With regard to weapons and illicit substances, it should be borne in mind that they can be destroyed by decision of the Public Prosecutor's Office under the conditions laid down by law. According to my information, a number of weapons destruction actions are planned from the beginning of the judicial year in order to evacuate the approximately 6,000 weapons that can be destroyed. With regard to the maintenance of the palace and the investments planned for this purpose, a study will be launched by the end of the year on the state of the building and the measures to be taken. This study should be carried out in consultation with the Régie des Bâtiments. However, some significant investments, either by the Régie des Bâtiments or by the SPF Justice, have been or are under way (replacement of the boiler via Fedesco, renovation of the attices (second phase), securing of exhibits, etc.). Still others are planned; this is the case, in particular, for work to extend access control. With regard to Verviers, for several years, my services have been working with the services of the Régie des Bâtiments in order to find a solution to renovate the current Palace of Verviers. This solution took time to emerge. It will take place in four phases. First of all, the removal of the palace by the removal of the archives at the level of the PJ courtyard in a building rented by the Régie des Bâtiments sis rue Xhave 16 in Verviers, which will allow the Régie to carry out the renovation work of the PJ courtyard during 2016. Secondly, the building is being made available in front of the courthouse on Rue du Tribunal, a building under construction that will be made available to the judiciary at the end of 2016 in early 2017. It will house the justice of peace of the first canton, as well as the courts of labour and commerce. Thirdly, the renovation of the extensions, including the facades and the roof, will allow the services of the old palace to be moved to them. Finally, the renovation of the palace itself will come. As you can see, this is a long-term work that will take a few more years. I hope that the deadlines advanced will be maintained.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u7	Minister, I am partly reassured by your response. Indeed, I had spoken of hundreds of weapons; you mention 6,000. When I visited this room, this amount impressed me very much. According to you, the prosecution can destroy some of them. As Minister of Justice, can't you direct him to do so more quickly? It's your responsibility. Six thousand weapons, that's an amazing number. I am absolutely convinced that we do not need to keep all of them in order to carry out the investigations. You're talking about a study that will be launched before the end of the year. Maybe that's reassuring. However, in order to repaint premises, such a procedure does not seem necessary. Perhaps it would be useful if you planned in your agenda, which is certainly loaded, half a day in order to get there. The president of the court invited you. Please visit her. In this way, you will realize the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u8	Minister, thank you for your answer. I take note of the maintenance and renovation of the courthouse in Verviers. Similarly, places will be reserved for all jurisdictions. Even if the work will be long, it will begin in 2016. That seems important to me. I hope that the political will you have expressed will be confirmed in the head of the Régie des Bâtiments so that the work can be carried out in the best possible conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u9	Question No 5743 by Gilles Vanden Burre is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u10	Mr President, Minister, this question was put before the holiday and I thought it had automatically been converted into a written question, but since it is on the agenda, I will ask them. In response to a written question from the previous legislature, to the then Minister of Justice, I received a list of more than 300 advisory committees of all kinds, in which magistrates sit or sit. In some cases, the use of magistrates can be justified; in others, the link between the judicial world and the advisory committee is very limited. The previous minister noted that most committees and councils for which magistrates are requested fall outside the jurisdiction of the FPS Justice. These are appeal boards and committees which depend on other federal administrations, Communities, Regions or parastatals, so it is difficult to cut them down. Minister, what are your views on the number of consultative committees? Which can disappear? Will you take initiatives to this end? If so, which one and when? Are you planning consultations with your colleagues to cut down on the advisory councils that are outside the field of Justice? What efficiency gains can be achieved in the field of advisory committees within the field of Justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u11	Mr President, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, Article 23 of the Law of 31 December 2012 on various provisions relating to justice, published in the Belgian Official Journal of the same day, inserts an Article 294a into the Court's Code, which provides that: "Where legal or regulatory provisions apply to magistrates for the performance of a post referred to in Article 294, second paragraph, "magistrate' means the magistrate in office, the magistrate retired for the attainment of the age referred to in Article 383, § 1, and the former magistrate who has been dismissed and who has also been authorised to perform the title of office. This provision was intended to respond to the legitimate concerns of the judicial authorities regarding the impact of participation in the many committees on the day-to-day functioning of Justice. It can be read in an explanatory memorandum to this provision that the designating authorities must also assume their responsibilities and, in the appointment of magistrates for a commission, board or committee, prefer judges who have been retired and former magistrates who have been dismissed. Of course, I think it is desirable that the appointment of magistrates for committees and councils should give priority to retired persons, who may be called upon to retire for the age of 67 or 70, provided that they were authorized to hold the title of honor. Since the performance of an honorary title is granted to magistrates who have served their duties honorably for at least ten years, this principle guarantees a broad professional experience of the members of the committees. In so far as it is within my competence, I will monitor the application of this principle when submitting the instructions for signature. As far as the consultations requested with the ministers of the Member States of the European Union are concerned, I must make it clear that the many committees and councils have a legal basis. The power to establish or abolish it is usually not in my hands, and the federal or regional legislator often has objective reasons for the inclusion of a magistrate in a committee or council, for example in view of the judicial nature of their decisions. Of course, the creation of a new committee or council by a colleague will be seriously examined by my services in order to avoid the total unnecessary inclusion of magistrates in all kinds of committees or councils.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Perhaps I will come back to this later, because I did not understand whether you already have explicit plans to examine that commission. I cannot imagine that all 300 committees are as important, if I may put it that way, and that there can be no rationalization. I'll come back to this matter later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u13	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 57, by Mrs Vanheste, Question No 57, by Mrs Vanheste Question No 57, by Mrs De Wit, put together Questions Nos 5813, 5816 and 5817 by Mrs De Wit: Question No 58, by Mr Demeyer: Question No 5821 by Mrs De Wit, Amendments Nos 5822, 6323, 6633 and 6632 by Mrs De Wit, Mrs Lijnen and Mr Goffin, and Questions Nos 5823 and 5836 by Mrs De Wit have been postponed. Question No 5833 by Mr Brotcorn is transformed into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 5847 by Mrs De Wit, Questions Nos 5848 and 5859 by Mr Vanden Burre, Questions Nos 5871 by Mrs De Wit and 6493 by Mrs Vanheste and Questions Nos 5927 and 5928 by Mrs Becq have been postponed. Question No 5980 by Mr Pirlot is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u14	Mr Minister, pursuant to the Royal Decree of 12 May 2015 establishing the model pro-fissoration referred to in Article 269 of the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Rights, each summons or petition must be accompanied by a pro-fissoration to be signed by a lawyer. In accordance with the above-mentioned KB, the right to roll under Article 269 of the same Code should be determined on the basis of the value of the claim of the dispute. The value must be determined in accordance with Article 577 of the Code: When the amount of the claim determines the absolute jurisdiction, it shall mean the sum required in the introductory act, excluding the judicial interest and all court costs and the periodic penalty payments. Consequently, there is a problem if a claim, partly consisting of a claim in monetary value and a claim not in monetary value, is brought by subpoena or application. Whereas in such a case, if the letter of the law is followed - it was thus confirmed in the preparatory works in the committee - only the claim in monetary value should be taken into account, it appears that in practice several Registrys also take into account the non-monetary component as an additional value factor and thus charge both the cash-valueable and the non-monetary component, in other words, they charge double role rights. I would like to clarify the basis for mixed claims to be taken into account. Are there any claims with a non-monetary component in addition to a monetary component? Is the basis determined only on the basis of the monetary component or the sum of both components? Minister, we also discussed this in the discussion of the draft. You made it clear at that time that only the monetary component had to be taken into account. In practice, the sum of both is now being added up, and for this reason I would ask you to clarify this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u15	The new provisions were adopted by the Act of 28 April 2015 amending the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Rights in order to reform the Registry Rights and by the Royal Decree of 12 May 2015 establishing the model of the Pro-Fisco Declaration referred to in Article 269 of the Code. Those new provisions entered into force on 1 June 2015. According to Article 269 of the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Rights, as amended by the aforementioned Act of 28 April 2015, the role law now varies according to the value of the claim. For the purposes of applying that rule, each applicant party to the instrument to be registered shall attach a pro-fissor statement of the estimate of the value of his final claim or, where appropriate, the fact that his claim cannot be valued in cash. With regard to the introductory acts relating to a claim which is partly priceable in money and partly non-valueable in money, it was clarified during the parliamentary discussion, document 54-906/006 page 18, that the right to roll should be calculated on the part of the claim that can be valued in money. If the claim includes several elements that are valued in money, they must be added to calculate the fees due. With regard to the remuneration required by the bailiffs to complete the pro-fissoration, it should be pointed out that Article 522 of the Court's Code clarifies that the King fixes the rate of all the documents and official duties of the bailiffs and that, for the rates not fixed by the King, the National Chamber of Court of Auditors may impose a minimum rate. Following a contact with the National Chamber of Court Bailiffs and the Knowledge Centre, I was informed that under that provision a rate of EUR 14,17 was set for the preparation of the pro-fisco declaration. Article 269 of the Code clarifies that the instrument is not registered without a pro-fissorisation. Moreover, Article 717 of the Civil Code provides that, if the case is not registered in the role of the hearing indicated in the summons, the latter is of no value. Since the bailiff must also ensure that the deed entrusted to him is entered in the role, it would be advisable for him to fill out the pro-fissor's statement himself if it was not attached to the deed delivered to him. It is true that the Registry duty is calculated on the value of the claim, as stated in the pro-fissoration. In the course of parliamentary work, as a result of the assessment of the value of the claim by the taxpayer himself would not lead to arbitrary action, it was stressed that lawyers were bound by a deontological duty which would respect the principles of dignity, righteousness and discretion. Any abuse in this respect would certainly constitute a deontological infringement. It was also underlined that there is a form of control in the sense that the plaintiff still has to obtain a judgment from the court, which requires him to make a correct assessment of the value of the claim and thus of the right to roll. As regards the question concerning the submission of the original of the pro-fissoration, it should be noted that the annexes to the Royal Decree of 12 May 2015 establishing the model of pro-fissoring certificates provide that the declaration is to be signed by the requesting party or its representative. Article 718 of the Court's Rules of Procedure provides that registration on the roll is to be made on production of the original or a copy certified by the court or, where appropriate, of the copy of the summary of summons served. It is true that, in the current state of law, a copy such as a scan of an original document is the literal transfer of a document, made according to the original, and distinguishes itself from the original, because it is not signed or at least contains no original signature. However, during parliamentary work, it was noted that the pro-fissoration is a tax requirement which as such does not affect the procedural rules established by the Court of First Instance. In any event, it should be noted that Article 860 et seq. of the Civil Code lays down restrictive rules on the nullity of a procedural act. It should also be noted that the draft law amending civil procedural law and laying down various provisions in the judiciary, which is currently being examined in Parliament, provides for the insertion of a new Article 32b into the Code of Justice, which will allow a notification, a deposit or a communication between the actors of justice to be made by means of the computer system of Justice designated by the King. Finally, in reply to Mrs Uyttersprot's question, which has now arrived, I can only repeat that the first objective of the profisco declaration is to establish the right to roll. The question of the use of the data contained in the above declaration is in line with the more general question of the compilation of legal statistics and their applicability. The ongoing computerization will certainly open up new perspectives in this area in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u16	Mr. Secretary, excuse me, I was confused for a moment when I came in and went over the questions quickly. I have noted that you have replied to four parts of the questions of which I have read only one. That saves me the effort to take back the questions in their entirety. If I have heard correctly, as regards the first part, namely, in the case of a combined claim, namely, on the one hand, worth in money and, on the other hand, not worth in money, you have said that we have to make the sum of both. Or did I misunderstand that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u17	I'll reread it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u18	Please excuse me, I was confused for a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u19	Mrs Van Cauter, we are human beings, and where there are people, there are people. The right to roll should be calculated on the part of the claim that is worth in money, if there is therefore also a part not worth in money. If there are two different elements in a claim that are both valued in money, then they must be added.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u20	So I missed a little passage. It is therefore in line with what was said during the parliamentary preparation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u21	Absolutely, anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u22	In practice, it appears that certain Registrys deal with this differently and that the pro-fissoration is thus amended and thus charged a double role right, namely, on the one hand, the component which can be valued in money and, on the other hand, the component which cannot be valued in money. Did you also say in your reply what the seeker has to do in such cases? That was one of my questions, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u23	To put the answer to the parliamentary question must be done by the judge seeking it. A circular has also been circulated in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u24	A circular in which that is clearly defined. What then is to be done if one has wrongly charged too high a role right? Can the Registry just change the pro-fissor statement?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u25	I do not think I have replied to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u26	Well, if you have not replied, I would be more than happy to point out in this reply that in practice the Registrars change the pro-fissoration. The question arises as to the usefulness of the pro-fissoration. Does that mean the judge will have to file it? Wouldn't it be easier if the clerk just found out? That brings me to the next part of my question. After all, we find that the bailiffs charge a fixed amount for the submission of that pro-fissoration.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u27	EUR 14.17.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u28	That amount of EUR 14,17 will then be added to the increased role rights. I'm not saying there's no payment for the services provided, but you know what I mean. I would ask you to think about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u29	Maybe it's not bad in perspective, I have to get straight away to answer that you're re-posing the question under that aspect, so that the answer is delivered to the Registrys as correctly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u30	At least I will.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u31	Mr President, Minister, please excuse my delay. It is not my custom, however, to arrive only halfway through a minister's reply. I had also put my question on the basis of what was pointed out to me on the ground, in particular by court bailiffs who claim that it is an additional burden or administrative act for which they are not honoured, even though this is so far. However, within the customs of their jurisdiction, bailiffs find that the pro-fissoration attached to a petition or subpoena ends up directly in the court file, despite the fact that that statement contains very interesting information, such as the type of claim, the estimated value and the total or partial free of charge. Apart from the objective of estimating the role rights, I think there is another opportunity in the pro-fissoration, which is to pool a number of data that I think are very important to the justice system. At a time when everyone is talking about computerisation, I do not think it would be bad to provide statistics on this, which could give a better picture of the types of claims, the percentage of partial or total free-of-charge on the total number of claims and so on. That's what I wanted to give you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u32	Mr President, Minister, this is a very short question. An audit by the Court of Auditors has shown that only one in five traffic fines are collected. This is, of course, a bad signal to the offenders, but it also leaves a lot of money to the Justice Department. There is talk of EUR 628 million per year. I would like to hear from you what you are going to do about this. The figures are no doubt known to you. Is there a plan to collect more fines? Has there been any consultation with the Minister of Finance on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u33	Mr President, Mrs Dumery, I assume you refer to the follow-up audit of the Court of Auditors in January 2014 on the execution of penalty payments. On page 41 of that report, the recovery rates quoted by you are mentioned. I would like to correct the perception of impunity by saying that collection and recovery are two completely different matters. It is not the case that we fail to do so in the area of collection, as you say. 89 per cent of the traffic fines are simply collected by spontaneous payment of the immediate collection by the offender, through the first payment invitation he receives with payment reminder, or through the proposal for an amicable settlement with payment reminder, or through the proposal for an immediate recovery of the payment reminder, a subsequent reminder that is sent by the parquet after non-payment. These are three opportunities that one gets to pay. It should be borne in mind that at this stage the offender is free to pay for the proposals of immediate collection or amicable settlement. The traffic offender is not required. In practice, 83% of the offenders spontaneously pay the immediate collection and another 5% the friendly settlement. So again, 88 to 89 % of traffic fines are paid without problems. We may be given the impression that we live in a banana republic, but between 88 and 89 percent are paid without problems. This is a lot. Only the remaining percentage is the subject of criminal prosecution and conviction the fine of which is recovered by the FPS Finance. This is the subject of audits by the Court of Auditors. Those convicts have been invited at least four times to voluntarily pay a sum of money. Among those convicted are, of course, those who do not pay easily. Other road offenders are directly prosecuted for more serious offences in court or an amicable settlement was immediately proposed for them. Following the 2014 follow-up audit, the then Justice and Finance Ministers drew up an action plan on the implementation of the financial penalties, with 32 action points for the two departments. This action plan is being implemented and is being followed up by the current Justice and Finance Ministers. On the implementation of the action plan, I am constantly consulting with Mr Van Overtveldt. It is even legally established that our representatives meet at the meeting of the so-called consultative body for the coordination of the recovery of non-fiscal debts in criminal matters. This body has been meeting every three months since its establishment in 2014. Outside this framework, there is continuous consultation to improve the recovery of penalty fines. New recovery tools or improvement initiatives are being developed. As an example, consultations have been held on the coordination of computer projects and the working methods of the Finance and Justice departments. There is consultation on repair legislation relating to the order for payment of traffic offences, which also involves Mobility. There is consultation to optimise the use of ANPR scanners for the recovery of the penalty fines wider than the penalty traffic fines. Consultations have been held on the manner in which foreign financial penalties are implemented in Belgium in accordance with the Council Framework Decision 2005/2214/JHA of 24 February 2005 against Belgians who committed an offence abroad and foreigners who committed an offence in Belgium. Finally, you refer to the correct fines. These are, of course, not usually fines linked to traffic offences, of which only a limited part can be recovered. You should not lose sight of the fact that these are mostly people who are in prison and who may not be able to pay or pay so easily for that reason.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u34	Mr Minister, with my question I did not want to give the impression that we live in a banana republic, but I also know the difference between those who spontaneously pay their fines, fortunately still the vast majority of the people, and some hard-hitting offenders who appear before the police court. The police judge very often sees the same people reappear, with still unpaid fines. That is very frustrating for the people in practice. I am therefore very pleased that the action plan is being further implemented and even intensified by you and the Minister of Finance. We can only hope that through the actions undertaken, more hard learners will consider not doing so anymore and that the first notification of a fine will also pay that fine immediately. Hopefully the nuisance caused by such cases before the police court will be avoided in this way. Thank you for your detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u35	Minister, you have probably also been shocked by the news that a number of people were killed by state magazine fraud among managers. Some thirty managers were already the victims of fraud following publication in the Belgian Official Journal in July. How do we deal with this kind of fraud? What was the reaction of the Justice Department to this state magazine fraud?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u36	Mrs Dumery, the problem concerns not only the publication in the Belgian Official Journal, but also the corresponding registration in the KBO and the deposit in the company files at the Registry. The incident to which you refer again shows that, without a substantive check, more than merely a formal check by the so-called gatekeepers, who monitor the gate and check the content of what is registered, published or registered, fraud cannot be excluded. Authentic sources can only have that status if the control of the influx of their information is effective. My computerization plan provides for the completion of the eDepot application for companies and eGriffie for associations. I am already working on a further modernisation of the aforementioned sources of information and the introduction of the gatekeeper function on all incoming information. As soon as the preparatory work is completed, I will submit a draft to the government and Parliament. When fraud is detected, it is primarily for the prosecution to begin the investigation and prosecution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u38	Question No 5995 by Mr Blanchart is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u39	Minister, about a year ago, the law on the introduction of a family and youth court came into force. This brought an end to the maze that existed in relation to the treatment of family conflicts. Separation couples should walk back and forth much less through the family court and thus family matters should be dealt with more quickly and better. However, practice shows that the family courts can hardly cope with the influx of cases and according to the OVB, the handling of family cases would take longer than in the past. The problem arises both at first instance and at the level of appeal, where in some districts it would take up to 6 months before a case is opened. Minister, how many cases have been initiated since the entry into force of the law establishing the family court for the past judicial year and by judicial district so far? In how many cases is there order or judgment in the meantime? How many family disputes and youth were initiated for the past years 2012-2013 and 2013-2014? In how many cases was an order or judgment pronounced here? How many friendly settlements have been acted by the chambers of friendly settlement per district so far? Minister, I assume you have heard the cry about the operation of the family courts. To what extent can you respond? Can you specifically address the demand for additional people and resources, a question from the magistrate?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u40	Minister, the family courts do exist for one year. My question is therefore looking at the evaluation of the family courts. How does the number of cases dealt with compare with the number of magistrates and registry staff working in the family court? What improvements are possible for the magistrate and registry staff? Then I have questions from the judge's point of view. What is the average lead time of the business at the moment? Has there been any delay? If so, in which arrondissements, because I hear that every court has a slightly different approach? What cause do you see? How do you evaluate the functioning of the family courts by process? What obstacles exist and what changes can be made to optimise the functioning of family courts?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u41	Ms Van Cauter, Ms Van Vaerenbergh, the law of 30 June 2013 entered into force on 1 September 2014, so barely a year ago. It has led to a radical reform of the judicial landscape, which has led to many organisational adjustments. The adjustment period has led to delays in the handling of claims. For the years 2012 to 2015, the College of Courts and Courts provided detailed statistics for each court on the number of cases initiated and the number of judgments handed down. On the basis of this information, you can form an initial idea of the work already carried out by the family court since its creation in comparison with the other courts previously competent for family matters. I'll make those statistics available to you. Unfortunately, I cannot provide the statistical data requested on the average lead time and the possible delay, because the College of Courts and Courts does not have them themselves. The computer application to the family court is still in full development. Over the next few months, the College believes that it will be possible to improve the use of information technology and, consequently, to obtain new figures. Moreover, the information I can provide to you should be taken into account, since the College of Courts and Courts informs of the number of cases in which at least one judgment has been given. Consequently, the statistics do not take into account all judgments that may have been delivered in a case. In addition, the statistics record both the final judgments and the interim rulings. Finally, the information provided has not yet been validated by the courts or peace courts themselves. Firstly, with regard to the family court, I can inform you that in the Empire, on average, 60% of the number of new cases initiated in the course of the judicial year 2014-2015, at least one judgment has already been delivered. The best results were achieved in Namur and Leuven, i.e. 69 %. Second, the College of Courts and Courts also provided the data on the number of family cases initiated during the years 2012-2013 and 2013-2014, broken down by previously competent court. However, the data of civil cases initiated in the juvenile court are limited to the years 2012 and 2013. Of the number of previous decisions, the College of Courts and Courts is unable to provide me with statistics broken down by subject matter. Thirdly, the College of Courts and Courts does not yet have the statistics on the number of friendly settlements per district. However, it is likely to be available in the near future, as it is developing an application for this purpose. Fourthly, since the family court has only just been set up and major organisational changes have been required at the time of its creation, which have undoubtedly caused delays in the handling of claims, it seems premature to me to draw conclusions on their operation and on the possible need to employ additional magistrates. Fifth, with regard to the procedural functioning of the family court, the legislator intended to centralise the family consent in a jurisdiction in 2013 by introducing the principle of a family, a judge, a file, through a number of legal provisions. The judge will soon be able to take or adapt the necessary measures through the mechanism of the permanent saisine. I hear that this principle is not applied uniformly in all districts in the allocation of cases to the respective chambers of a family court. In some arrondissements the former division between juvenile courts, interim proceedings, judicial and civil courts has sometimes been maintained. This naturally leads to a remarkable diversity in the application of the same law. The same determination applies to the functioning of the friendly settlement chambers, where the success depends on the extent to which it is promoted within the district concerned. The College of the Courts and Courts has not officially informed me of the need to provide for legislative changes. On the organisational level, I believe that the police chiefs should be given the necessary policy space within the spirit of the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. We will receive the figures in due course. They will undoubtedly be for further reflection. I can imagine that the changes involve organizational start-up problems. Nevertheless, I hope that it will go in the right direction, in the sense that at least one file per family will be used. In certain arrondissements, the former division is apparently still being maintained. I hope that the necessary policy responsibility will also be taken and that the ratio legis will be respected everywhere with an interest in the family. It's just a matter of waiting. I assume that you will take responsibility and take into account the workload when you have all the figures. We certainly have to relate stories in the press sometimes, and I hope that it is Indian stories that cleaning staff, drivers and others are used to assist the youth magistrates or the judges in the family court. I trust that you will follow this with concern and that on the basis of an evaluation, which can of course only be carried out after some time, you will take the appropriate measures so that sufficient people and resources are available to ensure proper administration of justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for the answer and I would like to expect the figures that we will be able to analyse further. I hope that the major changes in the field can be fully implemented, because that is not obvious. I understand that the new organisation cannot immediately function optimally. I also hope that information technology will follow, because it is important that we keep up with good statistics. Without figures, it is difficult to evaluate and adjust.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u44	Minister, this is an evaluation of the Law of 22 April 2010 which decided that progress on the state of persons should no longer be automatically allocated to a chamber with three counsellors. This is a question of figures on the basis of which legislation can be evaluated. This aspect was also raised in connection with the discussion of the potpourri, in which several fellow Members were asked about your policy decision in the draft that a number of dossiers should no longer be provided for in a collegiate chamber, but that files should be brought before a single judge. Even then, figures were asked for, which were not available during the discussion. Perhaps you can now clarify this part of the legislation that has already been adopted. For the years 2008 to 2014, can you give an overview of the number of judgments handed down in appeals cases on claims relating to the state of persons, dealt with by a Chamber with only a councillor and dealt with by a Chamber with three counsellors? Has the law of 22 April 2010 been reviewed and is it necessary to amend it? Perhaps you will answer me that you have updated the potpourri and that you have generalised the principle, but that is what I hear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u45	Mrs Van Cauter, on the basis of the statistics available, I will make available to you the summary of the number of judgments handed down on the state of persons per resort for the years 2008 to 2014. These are judgments relating to the absence of personal adoption, accreditation adoption, marriage annulment, opposition to marriage, pedigree, extended minority, incompetence, assistance to legal counsel, nationality, civil status instrument, colocation, stateless person and gender change. The differences per resort are striking. Where, in 2014, within the Ghent resort, about three quarters and within the Liège resort, about two thirds of the claims were dealt with by a chamber with one counsellor, I note that in the Antwerp resort, almost all cases, and within the Brussels resort, about two thirds, and within the Mons resort, half of the cases, are dealt with by chambers with three counsellors. I am therefore convinced, as you thought, that the option taken in the draft law amending civil procedural law and laying down various provisions on justice is the only right one, and otherwise the first Presidents should use their capacity as efficiently as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u46	I thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u47	Mr President, Minister, the train disaster in Wetteren dates back to 4 May 2013, more than two years ago. Then a freight train with chemical products derailed. The engineer would have ignored a signal and also drove twice as fast as allowed. An investigation has been ongoing since the date of the facts. In July 2015, a few months ago, everyone involved in this file received a letter from the court stating that the driver had died following a medical procedure complication. Since then, many questions have arisen, such as whether the investigation has been closed. The question also arises as to what happens to the compensation that the victims are still waiting for. Those victims aren't just private individuals, by the way. I questioned your fellow Minister Galant about the damage claims made by the local authorities in the neighbourhood and these amounts were EUR 953 101, which were incurred in relation to the aid. Minister, what is the state of play on this dossier? Can you also clarify the number of claims and claims that have been made?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u48	Mr President, Minister, following on from Mr Lahaye-Battheu's question, I would like to say the following. The train disaster in Wetteren is indeed two and a half years behind us, but with many wetters in my neighborhood that disaster is still fresh in memory. That day a freight train with chemical products on board derailed and the physical, emotional and material damage was and is still immense. The key question today is whether and how the victims will be compensated, since the train driver, who everyone assumed would be prosecuted, died miserably a few weeks ago. The judicial investigation would still be ongoing, but transport company Schenker asked for additional technical examination of the state of the track changes at the time of the accident, because there is uncertainty as to the state in which they were located. It seems that Schenker and Infrabel are heading for a procedural battle, in which they are actually passing through the hot potato, to the detriment of those concerned, such as the municipalities concerned, the residents, the aid workers and many other interested parties. I have the following questions. Has any further technical research been ordered? If so, is that investigation still ongoing? Are there any results yet? When will the investigation be completed? In the meantime, how many victims or disadvantaged people have faced bourgeois parties? Is there any indication of the total amount of the civil parties?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u49	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, Mrs Uyttersprot, as you know, the natural person, unlike the legal person, is subject to criminal proceedings in the event of his death, whether or not that natural person was suspected. Therefore, the driver can no longer be prosecuted and the prosecutor will examine the possibility of prosecuting the legal person, in particular whether it can and, where appropriate, should be prosecuted. If it becomes apparent that criminal prosecution of the legal person is no longer possible or, where appropriate, if it is still possible but no longer desirable, it will in fact only be possible to bring civil proceedings. At the time of the train driver's death, a number of research actions were still ongoing. Its implementation is necessary before a position can be taken on any further prosecution. As regards the circumstances of the accident, additional research was requested by the employer of the train driver, DB Schenker. The investigating judge agreed and instructed the technical expert to investigate it. The additional report has not yet been submitted. The environmental section is also being further examined. As far as civil claims are concerned, so far there have been 11 civil parties involved. That number does not say anything about the civil claims that can still be expected to be brought before the courts. Five hundred and fifty people have adopted the statute of registered injured persons. It is therefore expected that further civil claims will arise from this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for this state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I note that criminal proceedings may still be possible, but are not yet established, and that, as far as civil claims are concerned, the procedure can be continued, but that there is apparently no overall picture of this, given the wide gap between reported civil parties, 11 at the moment, as opposed to five hundred and fifty injured parties. I can imagine that there will be a lot more if we think of the many small self-employed people in the neighbourhood, bakers and butchers, for example, who have had to throw away all their products out of fear of a possible chemical contamination. Those people haven't been reimbursed so far. I am also thinking of the aid and municipalities that have had to employ all the troops. I can only hope that justice progresses quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u52	Minister, the internment in our country has been languishing for decades. It is therefore positive that the government, in particular the Justice Department, has identified it as a priority. At the beginning of 2014, 1 200 interned remained in our prisons. In the meantime, thanks to the 264 places in the FPC in Ghent, there has been a catch-up movement. In 2016, another 180 places will be added in Antwerp. Despite the efforts there is still a way to go: there will still be about 750 interned people no place (read: care). I am therefore pleased to note your intention to remove all interns from prison by the end of the parliamentary term in 2019. To this end, a third FPC would be created, so that each interneer can be provided with a tailor-made care path in accordance with the new internment law. In addition, two institutions for long stay or long stay would also be created, something unprecedented in our country. I have the following questions, Minister. Do you have any idea when to start building the third FPC? Do you think that this will create the necessary 750 additional places for interned people? If not, what solution do you see for these people? How many places in the Longstay settings? How many people are eligible for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u53	Mrs Uyttersprot, we are working on an adapted master plan for the prisons, the so-called master plan 3. In it is a large part incorporated for internees. The starting position is indeed that for each interned there is a place in a specialized establishment. Your figures do need to be adjusted a little bit. There are currently 900 interned people living in prisons. Besides the FPC in Ghent and Antwerp, it seems logical that another project is planned in both parts of the country. If this can be achieved, a global solution can be offered to all interns. Of course not all internees will pass through an FPC and there are also places in the regular forensic psychiatry where inmates can go immediately without stopping in an FPC. The matter has yet to be approved by the Council of Ministers. I hope that approval can happen soon. Further details can then be given. It is only then that a timing can be given. As you have undoubtedly heard in the meantime, on 16 September 2015, I announced, together with Mrs De Block, the arrival of a care unit for long-term forensic psychiatric care for interns with a high risk of recidivism. This care unit is being developed on the campus of the University Psychiatric Centre of Sint-Camillus in Bierbeek. She'll give place to thirty interned. My colleague and I work out a similar place in Wallonia. Talks about that are in progress. This means that we will be able to make two longstay facilities for a total of 60 interned operational in 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u54	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I do not want to improve you, but I mentioned in my question that at the beginning of 2014 there were 1 200 people. With this figure of 264 people, this figure has actually now been reduced to about 900 people. I do not intend to improve you, but I would nevertheless like to point out that I had included the figures in my question. I appreciate your concern, which I share with you, to get all internees out of prison. The regular circuit, which does not pass through the FPC, is of course already on the agenda. However, the fact remains that those who are now in detention remain a problem. Those 60-place long-stay facilities are, of course, very positive. However, this was also my question and I do not know if you have a view on the extent to which sixty persons would be covered by the longstay regime. That's gonna prove it. Thank you very much for the initiatives you have already taken in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u55	Mr President, Minister, the question of learning the principles of citizenship has been debated for a long time, but even more particularly since the Constitutional Court's ruling of 12 March. Interconviction is an obvious challenge and Francophone education will have to assume this responsibility soon as part of a new school curriculum. At the same time, we note that the creation of non-Catholic denominational schools on Belgian territory is changing. More specifically, according to my information, 14 non-Catholic denominational schools exist in Brussels and Wallonia in basic education. Our Constitution enshrines the neutrality of our State. This principle is, of course, to be respected even if it would probably have to be changed, but this is another debate. We know that it is necessary for the State to ensure that discourses that run counter to the fundamental and democratic values of our country do not develop. But in some cultural forums, the state has already had to intervene and will probably still have to do so. It is interesting to note that at each new opening of this type of school, some consider it necessary to justify the approach taken. I am thinking in particular of the sociologist of UCL Mr Dassetto, who said last March: "There is no danger of indoctrination when a school is opened at the initiative of the Belgian-Turkish community in Liège". Considering these elements and considering your religious skills, I wanted to ask you three questions. Is there any special control organized by the federal guardianship services over religious denominations vis-à-vis representatives of religious denominations and those who teach religion in non-Catholic denominational schools? Is there a specific procedure which applies between the departments of the Communities responsible for education on the one hand and the federal services responsible for worship on the other? Have there been any contacts between the federal services of religions, the federal services of Equal Opportunities and the State Security in connection with the activities of denominational schools, given the social and political context that we are facing in Europe and at international level?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u56	Mr. Pivin, I'm going to disappoint you and I'm sorry. Teaching is a community competence. Even if the bodies representing the religions recognized by the federal authority have competence in this field, I believe that it is in the first place the Community authorities which should be asked to obtain the precise information. It is therefore not for me to answer in their place.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u57	I am indeed disappointed, Minister. I understand that I intend to ask the question in other places, but I thought you could shed some light at the federal level. I take note of the answer you have given me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u58	Debates of the European Parliament 6179 by Mrs Goedele Uyttersprot is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Karin Jiroflée has been withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament 6181 by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u59	Mr President, Minister, a few months ago, I asked you about the future of the Courthouse in Tournai. It is now the turn of the platform of the Hainaut chiefs and batons to bring their fears and recommendations to you and to the Prime Minister. They plead, as I did a few weeks ago, to re-focus the judicial entities of Tournai on the site of the former renovated and enlarged courthouse in order to limit costs. They would also like to share with you their discussions on the justices of the peace of the jurisdiction. This meeting of the platform arises from the uncertainty that always hovers about the courthouse of Tournai, its future and the maintenance of the places of justice in these times of disquiet for your department. Minister, the Hainaut Chiefs of Corps and Batniers platform invites you to dialogue and exchange views. Do you plan to meet with them and hear them in this file? Has the government started its reflection on the Masterplan "Palais de Justice"? Where are we? If not, when is this planned? Can you finally reassure the actors of the judicial world in Tournais? Do you intend to receive them on the reform of the justice system? If so, within what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u60	Mr President, Mr Delannois, you are referring to your previous question on this subject and I must also refer you, at least in part, to my reply at the time. At that time, I made it clear that we had begun the development of the Masterplan, as envisaged in my Justice Plan. It's too early to give details. Every week I receive a number of motions from the surrounding municipalities in the Tournai file. I take them into consideration and answer them. Certainly by a standardized letter, but I answer it. A number of judges from Tournai have also already been received at my office. I think I read in the newspaper L'Avenir that I will visit "in complete discretion" the region of Tournai. It's hard to do things in complete discretion, but I'm trying. With regard to justice of the peace, the plan includes three phases, as specified in the Justice Plan. The first phase "double and triple cantons" is being finalized. It was drafted in full consultation with the justices of the peace concerned. It is also with these interlocutors that we have started the exercise for phases two and three which relate, on the one hand, to the urban cantons and, on the other, to the limits of the existing cantons.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u61	Mr Minister, you mentioned this: your colleague, Mrs Marghem, recently invited you to his office to discuss this issue. "They came, they're all here," could have singed Charles Aznavour. Indeed, the opposition was invited. My colleague Mr Brotcorne, like I am a member of the opposition, like I am interested in this matter, like I am a mayor of a commune (he from Leuze, I from Tournai) had been invited, unlike me. Which led me to think that some of them had shown a slight lack of correction. In any case, I said to myself that the economy should be the key word of this government and that Mrs Marghem's cabinet did not have enough coffee that day to invite me. It's okay! I won't die. But I can assure you that I will continue to be interested in this matter. Having said that, Minister, I read in the press that, following this meeting, you promised to come "discreetly" to Tournai. If some lack correction, if some come close to rudeness, that's not my case. I can assure you that I am a well-educated and polite boy. It is therefore with great pleasure and respect that I will receive you at the City Hall on the day you visit us. Perhaps you can make it known to some rude people around you in the government!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u62	Minister, the coalition agreement provides for the reform and modernisation of the second-line assistance system so that assistance can be guaranteed sustainably for those who are actually entitled to it. One of its initiatives is the improved recovery of unduly paid legal aid in the event of abuse by persons who subsequently proved to have sufficient resources at the time of their application and were not actually entitled to second-line assistance. Minister, how will your administration be informed when such a case of unjustly paid legal aid comes to light? How will the files in your administration be followed for recovery and possible criminal prosecution? How many files are being recovered and how many files are actually being recovered? I'd like to get the figures for the last three years. How do the amounts received relate to the amounts recovered? I'd like to get the numbers for the last three years per desk. Another initiative is the stricter supervision of the pro-Deo attorneys. Normally, a public defender becomes a lawyer. Now, however, there are lawyers in and around prisons who have been arrested or taken into custody as new clients and do not inform the original pro-Deo attorneys of this. They may not succeed unless there is a breach of trust or there is an unbridgeable difference between the client and his counsel. Moreover, the follow-up in practice is not always correct. The rules are bypassed by, for example, entering the file in another judicial district, which is only possible if there are two branches. Do legal assistance offices exchange data to detect such successions? If so, how does it proceed? If not, is there another possibility of detecting abuses? Do you envisage initiatives to prevent such facts?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u63	Minister, this problem appears every year. Pro-Deo lawyers are a little concerned about the value of the point. Sometimes it is found that these points are falling and after a few conversations there is still a slight adjustment, so that the points can be kept at level. Is there going to be an adjustment this year? I am told that the value of the point is falling again. Could you give us an overview of the value of the points over the past few years, so that we can see the evolution?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u64	Minister, the second-line assistance is provided by the lawyer and financed by an annual envelope. The envelope shall be distributed among all lawyers who participated in the second-line assistance. The value per point is assigned at that time. About half of the total stock, in a ratio of two thirds of lawyers included on the tableau and a third trainee, is involved in second-line assistance. They shall be reimbursed on the basis of a point system per performance delivered. The number of cases in which legal aid was granted would have increased by as much as 192 % between 2000 and 2010. Between 2004 and 2011 I refer to the Mercuriale of the OVB President Matthys before the Arbeidshof in Brussels......................................................................................................................................................................................... The system is regularly criticised, Minister. That won't be weird to you. Some people ask whether the growth of the number of pro-Deo cases is not stimulated by the lawyer himself, as pro-Deo lawyers are not paid for the result obtained. In addition, quality control would be insufficient. In some cases, lawyers would even benefit from a poor defence, because in that case they could appeal and therefore charge additional points to increase their income. That's how we read in the press. It is also said that certain lawyers do not carry out the services they charge in the second-line assistance themselves but have them performed by employees. In this way, they take profits at the cost of second-line assistance. This would be a well-known abuse, particularly in the case of aliens' files, as we read in the press, in which certain lawyers observe a full session on behalf of a holder and take on dozens of files for the Council for Foreigner's Contests, while the clients charge the benefits and receive the profits taken. Mr President, could you briefly remind me of the sum of the second-line aid envelope in the last five years? What is the average remuneration obtained by a lawyer who cooperates with the second-line assistance? Is it true that some lawyers who carry out purely or mainly second-line assignments receive an income of more than EUR 100 000 per year? What percentage of lawyers in the envelope earns or receives more than 50 000 euros per year? What about the control? Are not only the quantity, but also the quality of the services provided and the points charged for this purpose checked?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u65	Mr President, I note that my question No. 6456 has also been added to this item. In order to prevent us from repeating ourselves later, I shall now put them briefly. Minister, given the recent increase in the influx of new asylum seekers, we can also expect a sharp increase in the number of procedures at the Council of Foreign Ministers. We have seen how the previous asylum crisis in 2010 reflected in the figures. When it appeared that a sixth of the total number of pro-Deo files accounted for a quarter of the budget at the time. Even an inadmissible action before the Council resulted in 15 pro-Deo points. A regularization procedure or a naturalization procedure resulted in 10 points. It could also be repeated several times, so we understand that this quickly increased to a quarter of the total budget. In view of the fact that the budget for second-line assistance is under closed envelope and the number of files is increasing annually, which is to be expected now, the point is expected to fall proportionally, in contrast to inflation, where the point should rise. I come to my very brief questions. Are you considering an increase in the closed envelope to ensure legal aid? Shouldn't there be an evaluation of the files that are often reduced to cutting-and-plating, in order to express it disrespectfully? We have prepared a proposal which states that it is appropriate to evaluate the number of points in view of the large number of asylum seekers coming towards us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u66	I will try to answer all the questions as best I can. As regards the second-line legal assistance unduly reimbursed, a legal assistance office which finds, for example, that a seeker is not, or is no longer, eligible, the second-line assistance will terminate pursuant to Article 508/18 of the Civil Code. The BJB shall not inform the FPS Justice on an individual basis. However, the OVB and OBFG orders provide the FPS with the figures for the rejections pursuant to Article 508/18 of the Civil Code on an annual basis. The individual follow-up takes place entirely at the level of the BJBs. I am not aware of cases where criminal prosecution was necessary. As regards the follow-up between pro-Deo attorneys, I can confirm that a BJB has the opportunity to check whether an appointment has already been granted for a particular judge for the same file in another district. The BJB may search under the name of the seeker or at his date of birth. The result of the search is a list per arrondissement containing the files in which appointments were made for a seeker. Visible include the status of the file, its subject matter and the date of appointment. On the other hand, it is not the case that a BJB is automatically notified when it gives an appointment in a file for which an appointment already exists in another district. I would also like to point out that the succession of a lawyer does not automatically mean that there is abuse. At the level of the BJBs, it is generally carefully examined whether the succession is justified or whether there is abuse in play. A further improvement in control is possible by improving computer systems and by improving the exchange of information. This is being prepared in cooperation with the orders. As regards the value of the second-line assistance point, in my reply you will find the value of the point between 2004 and 2014. I give the latest figures to make the rest of my answer understandable. 2013 25,76 euros, 2014 25,76 euros, 2012 26,91 euros. With the application of the existing regime and regulation, this year's point value has been provisionally set at EUR 24.76 for the benefits in the legal year 2013-2014. On the basis of that point value, the lawyers were paid out before the summer. As I replied to Mrs Uyttersprot at the plenary session of 22 May 2014, I wish to adjust the difference of EUR 1 or the difference between EUR 25,76 in 2014 and 24,76 in 2015 before the end of the year. I hope that this can be done as a result of budgetary control; if not, I have committed myself to making an internal adjustment and seeking the money for it. On the remuneration of lawyers, Mrs Van Cauter asked the question what the total envelope is for the remuneration of lawyers over the past five years. It concerns amounts between EUR 68 million for 2009-2010, rising to a maximum of 77 million, to fall again to EUR 71,932 million in 2013-2014. The average annual fee of a lawyer participating in the second-line legal assistance was 8 288 euros gross for the legal year 2013-2014 for the Flemish lawyer. On the OBFG side, the average amount is 11 618 euros. It is not known which lawyers work exclusively in the framework of second-line legal assistance, but 2.62% of Flemish lawyers earn more than 50 000 euros in second-line legal assistance. For French-speaking and German-speaking lawyers, this percentage is 2.52%. A lawyer must always have done the performance himself or been replaced. That shall be checked by means of supporting documents attached to the attachment forms. Of course, performance can only be charged once. Attorneys may be assisted by employees in the preparation of dossiers and in the preparation of documents. An office colleague may work in the file, even if it is done in the name of the dominus litis, who submits the procedural documents as appointed in second-line legal assistance. The impact of the asylum crisis on second-line legal assistance will be felt in the number of services provided by lawyers in foreign law. In order to avoid a negative impact on the value of the issue, I have called on the government to allocate additional resources for second-line legal assistance in the financial year 2016, i.e. for the judicial performance 2014-2015. Today, at the level of the BIS itself, there is already a comprehensive control of performance. The lawyer must attach petitions and decisions to the conclusion of an asylum procedure. On that basis, it will then be decided whether the requested points should be granted in whole or in part. In the case of mere cutting and sticking, the BIS decides to reduce the assigned points. In cooperation with the orders, it is currently examining ways of further strengthening control and sanctioning. This will be part of the wider reform of the second-line legal assistance announced by the government agreement which I will present to the government in the near future and which I hope to be able to discuss very soon here in the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u67	Mr Minister, as regards the recovery of unduly reimbursed assistance, I note that it is not delivered to your administration, except in total, not in individual cases, and that this only leads to an end in the event of abuse. If I am in favour, these are figs after Easter, because the free legal aid has already been granted, albeit in an unjust way. In the future, this point might be included in the overall package, because it is a source of frustration for people who fall out of the boat. As far as the problems of succession are concerned, you are right to say that the follow-up by the BJBs is being carried out correctly. That's not the problem. Only a single attorney is guilty of this and those cases are easily carried out, but the OVB also appears to have been informed about this. If I have heard it correctly, they are preparing to facilitate the exchange of data between the various BJJBs. Regarding the impact of the asylum crisis on the pro-Deo budget, the asylum crisis is likely to lead to additional resources. Until then, the individual BJBs can work with a reduction of the points in individual cases. They will undoubtedly do so in their honour and conscience. Otherwise, I look forward to your design in that sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u68	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will, of course, keep you in mind that the extra euro will come. I wish you every success in the budgetary negotiations or the budgetary adjustment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u69	Mr Minister, have I heard you say a short time ago with a draft statement?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u70	I'm going to the government briefly. That's not bad, is it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u71	Questions Nos 6160 and 6575 by Mr Van Hecke are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u72	Mr. President, Minister, for several years now, the means of communication have played an increasingly important role in police investigations. Among them, telephony has emerged as an essential element for successful investigations, whether in the area of terrorism or organized crime. In September 2014, Apple and Google modified their operating systems to ensure full encryption of devices. This device applied to smartphones makes all data inaccessible to anyone who does not have the device unlocking code. Only the user is the holder since even manufacturers are not aware of it. While this specificity is in line with the general public's desire to protect their personal data, it also allows for better protection against a phenomenon that is becoming more and more widespread: cybercrime. A logical consequence of this increased security of smartphones is also that justice becomes blind in this area and that the progress of some investigations is slowed down, while the operation of mobile phones would have facilitated them. The only way to access a suspect's smartphone data is by asking him for the code. There is, of course, no way of forcing the latter to cooperate, since constitutional and treaty norms give everyone in question the right to silence. Minister, I assume that this matter has already been brought to your attention. While the concept of proportionality – which we have been able to discuss about other technological developments – must be adopted, it seems obvious that a balance must be struck between the protection of privacy and the imperatives of public safety. Discussions with giants such as Google or Apple to make the data available in the event of an investigation seem inevitable. Have they been considered?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u73	Mr President, Mr Foret, giving judicial or intelligence investigators the means to access computer and telecommunications data is one of my priorities in the area of security. It is clear that the issue of increasing the use of data encryption is a major challenge. It is becoming increasingly difficult for investigators to access smartphone data, especially with the last generations of the two main operating systems you have cited: Apple and Android. The difficulty of the debate is that encryption is obviously not an evil in itself. At the same time, citizens and businesses cannot be encouraged to secure their data and prohibit their encryption. This includes whether it is possible to ensure that the decryption key remains accessible to investigators without simultaneously creating a security flaw that can be exploited by other actors, whether it is a foreign intelligence service or criminal hackers. On the other hand, it is clear that we need at least a European approach to these issues and less European discussions with major private actors such as Apple and Google. Unfortunately, the revelations on mass surveillance have created a climate that is not conducive to Union action, but necessary to allow not widespread monitoring but ad hoc access to data in specific dossiers. One of the priorities I have set for my participation in the JHA Council of the European Union is to achieve European measures in this area of access to telecommunications data for criminal investigations. Of course, I am working in parallel with national measures. In addition to ensuring that the police have the technical equipment necessary to access and exploit the data, my priority is to repair the Data Retention Act which is necessary for operators to keep the communications data for a minimum period of time for investigations. A draft law will soon be submitted to the Council of Ministers; another will soon follow with, as foreseen in the Government Agreement, a revision of the Law on Research Methods. Access to data from computer systems with the necessary guarantees will be one of the main aspects of this project. It will not bring a complete solution to the problem you have raised, but it is one of the steps in combining national and European efforts to achieve this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u74	Minister, thank you. Your answer shows the complexity of the situation. We are at the crossroads of various ongoing debates on the judgments of the European Court of Justice and on technological developments. I have no doubt that with your services, that with your colleagues in the government, you will find the parade at national and European level to face this ongoing challenge of finding a balance between privacy and the fight against cybercrime.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u75	Telephone operators are regularly involved in police investigations, in particular when identifying the owner of a telephone number in order to verify an alibi or to confuse a suspect. These operators are also required by law to provide such information. Given the evolution of today's society and the growing importance of communications in our morals, it seems obvious that the use of this type of identification can only be increased in the future. However, these identifications have a heavy cost on the Justice budget. This cost is expected to increase. One explanation of the magnitude of this cost appears to lie in the procedure used to request identification of a number or appellant. According to my information, when such identification is required, the request is systematically sent to the three operators in the country. It is clear, however, that the number can only be registered with one operator, which means that two of the three applications are not justified, although they will of course be invoiced. Minister, can you confirm that this practice exists or has existed? Can we tell if it is widespread or practiced on an ad hoc basis? Is it possible to estimate the additional cost it has generated so far? Since it is possible to know the operator to whom any telephone number is attached, would it not be appropriate to correct the procedure in order to avoid unnecessary costs to Justice? Are there any other avenues for simplifying procedures? I am thinking in particular of a work that had been initiated in 2014 with the operators under the aegis of the late Commission of Modernisation of the Judicial Order. This work had led to possible ways of reducing costs by regulating the number of requests and reducing effort on the part of both authorities and operators. What about today?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u76	With regard to your question concerning the systematic request to all operators rather than to one for the identification of a telephone number and/or user, I can confirm that such practices are rather sporadic and ad hoc, thanks to the increased awareness-raising activities that are being carried out with judges for this purpose, through the Judicial Training Institute and in collaboration with the main telecommunications operators. It is difficult to deduce from invoicing any additional costs that may still exist. In the meantime, actions have been taken to simplify the processes so that some interventions can take place almost automatically. This will result in a significant reduction in the cost of processing invoicing, both in terms of the means used in terms of personnel and in terms of logistics, to the CTIF, the judicial services, the administration of my department and to the operators themselves. This is therefore a win-win situation for all those involved in these processes. With a view to a further structural reduction in costs for telephone wiretapping, the structure of tariffs has been greatly simplified and renegotiated with operators in consultation with the IBPT. These negotiations will result in the publication of a new Royal Order including reduced negotiated rates for telecom operators. The draft royal decree is currently subject to notification procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u77	Minister, thank you for your answer. I have no doubt that you will ensure the proper application of this common sense procedure, but there is a need for coordination work. It will also be one of the challenges in controlling future costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u78	Question No 6324 by Mrs Van Cauter is transformed into a written question. Question No 6405 by Mr Clarinval is postponed, as is Question No 6419 by Mrs Thoron.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u79	Mr President, Minister, a rather strange message appeared in the media. As a protest against the few clerks in the French-speaking Brussels juvenile courts, all juvenile criminals would be systematically released from mid-October because there could be no more meetings. If we can believe it, the staff shortage at the Brussels Court of First Instance is considerable. However, seven employees were already obliged to transfer from the Dutch-speaking courts to the French-speaking courts and this was illegal. In addition, 73 French-speaking staff were appointed without proof of bilingualism and the Brussels court did not use the additional millions you made available for additional recruitments, or the Brussels court did not already apply for them. Mr. Secretary, I have the following questions for you. Have you already consulted or are you going to consult with the Brussels court in order to avoid these blackmail actions? What attitude do you take towards these actions? Can you confirm that the passages of the Court's Code on mobility also apply in the Brussels arrondissement and that the first President can, therefore, by means of internal mobility himself, provide for clerks before the juvenile courts? Can you give us the figures of the theoretical number of clerks and the actual number of clerks at the Dutch courts of first instance in Brussels?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u80	Mr President, Mr Minister, you know that the tone of my speech will be a little different from that of my colleague who has just spoken. By letter of 21 September 2015, the 13 judges of the French-speaking youth court in Brussels denounced the failure to respect the framework of the judicial staff they are facing, speaking of a deficit of more than half of the staff of the central registry and the chambers and of the absence of a clerk in the 12th Chamber of the court. This situation led them to announce that no more decisions by order could be made by the 12th Chamber of the Court, with the systematic release of minors detained on Thursday, 15 October. Similarly, in the absence of a clerk, that chamber could no longer make an order that could protect a minor from danger because he or she was the subject of serious negligence or abuse. Judges are also concerned that once staff members are trained in Brussels courts, they may apply to other courts. It is a well-known phenomenon which is not unique to the youth court but which is often the common lot of several Brussels courts. At the meeting of the committee on 1 July, you replied that the closure of the registry of the French-speaking commercial court in Brussels (this closure also concerns the registry of the youth court) would be justified until the framework was complete. Of course, it's about the hours of access in the afternoon. If this response is in line with your general policy statement, in which you announced that the recruitment of judges and staff to fill the new courts is a priority, the situation of the French-speaking youth court in Brussels is symptomatic of a situation that all other Brussels courts suffer. The General States of Justice of 10 September allowed the presidents of these courts to take stock of an almost desperate shortage of staff in the registry offices, requiring the use of delegations or even volunteerism. Minister, is the filling of executives a priority for all jurisdictions in the country? You will tell me that yes, but what about the deadlines within which you feel these frameworks will be completed, especially for the French-speaking courts in Brussels? I remember that in the debate on the sixth reform of the State, I reminded the plenary that the credibility of the reform of the judicial landscape in Brussels would depend to a large extent on the ability of the courts to have full staff to undertake the restructuring of the courts. I could repeat the statements made at the time by the two Secretaries of State for Institutional Reforms, who said to me: "You are wrong. We will have an order of the executives at the latest for the year following the vote on the reform law." We're far from it. It is time to have a certain timetable and a certain structural proposal which implies that the budget can follow. There is a request that has been made by the judiciary for an additional staff appropriation that is indispensable to the framework to be completed. How do you intend to remedy the impossibility of ensuring the continuity of the service of detained minors? What is the status of the objective measure of court workload announced in your Justice Plan? You announced that the results of this workload measure would be linked to the revision of the staff framework and to the appointments of judges and judicial staff, on the basis of objective criteria. What are these criteria? How will the judges of the French-speaking youth court in Brussels be affected by this review? These questions return from quarter to quarter. I have heard about the workload almost since I sat on the Justice Committee, which is a short time ago. Each minister says that he cannot recover anything that was not done by his predecessor. But, at some point, we wonder what minister is going to assume. Minister, you have the chance to be that long-awaited savior!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u81	Minister, I am not going to repeat everything that has been said, since the two presentations have reminded us of the situation. I come directly to a few questions which obviously relate to the previous ones. To what extent is the staff of the French-speaking youth court in Brussels filled? Since you have published vacancies for clerks in particular, how long can these posts be filled? Following the statements just mentioned, did you have any contact with Brussels youth judges?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the French-speaking juvenile judges informed me of their concerns by letter of 21 September 2015. I therefore immediately took the initiative to invite them to a meeting on 30 September. I have an understanding of the concerns of Brussels youth judges, but I have also made it clear that I regret the style and tone of their communication. Of course, I hope that they will serve minors in detention, in accordance with their legal duty as magistrates. In a constructive discussion, I explained to these magistrates the situation of their court of first instance. I have informed them of my intention, in accordance with the coalition agreement, to ensure the implementation of the vacant relations, to the extent that candidates have offered themselves or will present themselves on the occasion of a subsequent publication. The Registry of the French-speaking Court of First Instance now has 262 members of staff, 103 of whom hold the office of Registrar at 125, a large number of them as delegations. That's right. In addition, seven staff members for six full-time equivalents were delegated from the Dutch court of first instance to the French-speaking Registry by the first President of the Appeal Court. I have recently responded to the request to award six additional orders to the Registrar. 18 vacant places of clerks in the French-speaking court and 10 vacant places of assistants were published in the Monitor on 28 July. Given the number of candidates (39 for clerks' seats and 34 for assistant seats), the first appointments of clerks can be expected in the course of November and the first appointments of assistants by the end of this year. A further proposal for publication of vacant relations is currently being prepared. All relations are, of course, the wishes of the President and of the Government. However, many factors must be taken into account which make this impossible in practice for the time being. There are not always enough candidates. Attendees often look for other horizons, especially when they can make a promotion elsewhere, or get their rest. In accordance with article 164 of the Judicial Code, the Chief Registrar is responsible for directing the Registry under the authority and supervision of the Chief of Staff. It allocates the tasks between the members and the staff of the Registry and designates the clerks who assist the magistrates. The staffing of the Youth Court, which is part of the Court of First Instance, is therefore, as a first step, an internal matter. However, I felt it was my duty to propose to the president of the court that he and his chief clerk come and sit around a table to discuss the overall situation. You are right to say that the law of 1 December 2013 on reform of the judicial districts introduced rules to increase the mobility of members of the judicial order and that, in accordance with Article 328, the first President may delegate the needs of the service to one court, while respecting the law on language in court cases. As I pointed out earlier, the first President delegated six full-time equivalents from the Dutch court of first instance to the French-speaking Registry. The solution to the problem is therefore being worked hard. I would like to add that in the context of an upcoming draft law, which we have baptized, the possibility of change for the judicial staff will only exist after a staff member has remained in a particular place for two years. At the moment it is very easy to mutate. I would like to stress once again that the Brussels problem, particularly for the French-speaking side, is largely due to the enormous rotation of staff. At the moment, like the President, I have very little resources to do much about this rotation. That is why I propose to tighten up the legislation on mutation. However, it is mainly a matter of what is called retaining in English, being being able to retain the staff present. So I'm barely following.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u83	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I can only regret with you the style of communication of the French-speaking Brussels magistrates in the press. I really don't think this is a way of communicating. I believe that they must also carry out their duties as they are instructed to do. The French speakers have already received more resources and people in the context of the BHV reform. Staff have already been transferred. My position is, moreover, that they have been transferred illegally because there was no other matter on the Dutch-speaking side. I hope that a solution can be found in all serenity, because it really cannot be said that magistrates will release every crook who appears to them because they do not have sufficient resources. I regret that such action is being taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u84	Mr President, when magistrates leave their duty of reserve, especially the magistrates in the seat, it is generally because they feel that they are facing an extreme situation. No longer being able to assume the service of justice, for lack of staff, is undoubtedly for a magistrate who has a sense of responsibility what is most painful and less acceptable in terms of principles. We can discuss infinity the ways of expressing ourselves. What is terrible is that there must sometimes be such a protest movement in order for there to be an awareness of the scale of the problem. We can't say we didn't know. The shortage of staff in the courts in Brussels - and especially on the French side - is a long-standing problem. All the ministers involved, I think I have about 20 speeches on this subject alone. Indeed, the magistrates speak to us, the bars express themselves. The question is how one can end the feeling that one runs each time behind the last emergency and how one can anticipate in the long term; not only to complement managers but also to find the legal modalities to retain staff members and especially the staff members of the registries. What formulas should be considered? I know that there are budgetary constraints, but we must not hide that the workload in Brussels, as in other jurisdictions linked to large cities, is particularly heavy. Should we think about premium formulas? Is it necessary to think for those who leave certain training courses, if they are taken over by the public authorities, that there is a commitment to stay. This is the case in the police services in Brussels: when you leave the Brussels Academy, you make a commitment to stay 5 years in the police forces in Brussels. There may be ways to encourage the continuation of service by those who are engaged. Rotation is terrible and does not guarantee the continuity of the service in a serene and legally secure manner. When you hear some magistrates talk about the collaboration they have with some members of the transplants, it's pretty terrible. Especially in the drafting and rereading of judgments. This is even more extensive than the question of the number of magistrates and the number of staff. It's a real challenge you're facing. I am not the type to come to criticise the criticism because I know the difficulty you are facing, but I believe that we must now consider long-term structural measures. This is the only way to solve this old debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u85	Minister, I also thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u86	Questions Nos 6430 and 6337 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh and question No 6442 by Mr Geerts are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u87	Minister, a few days ago, Professor of Family Law Frederik Swennen and Child Rights Commissioner Bruno Vanobbergen made a plea to appoint a divorce officer. This should place the problems of divorces, involving different sectors and domains, both at regional and federal level, on the political agenda and seek answers. There was therefore a call for a new separation officer's institute. You have stated that you do not immediately like the idea, because you believe above all in achieving solutions from the parties through the friendly settlement, where appropriate with mediators. I also wrote in my question that the friendly settlement was initially little used. That was shown by the figures I had received from the peace judges. It now appears to be revived in the context of the family courts. Indeed, all family courts now have rooms for friendly settlement, for over a year now. Mr Minister, could you clarify your views on the idea of the divorce officer? How do you evaluate the existing initiatives to stimulate mediation, more specifically with regard to the Friendly Settlement Rooms? Do you have figures on the number of procedures carried out and the number of agreements reached? Are you planning other initiatives in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u88	As I said, I am not in favour of the appointment of a divorce officer. Rather, we should focus on mediation so that the conflicts can be resolved as far as possible outside the courts or in the framework of an amicable settlement. I think that we should pool the existing possibilities and ensure that structural cooperation is established between federal justice and the Community departments of Well-being and Education. The law of 30 July 2013 introduced by the family and youth courts and entered into force since 1 September 2014 only exists for a year. It is therefore too early to evaluate the functioning of the chambers of amicable settlement. In addition, the Courts and Courts do not yet have the statistics on the number of friendly settlements per district, which should change in the near future. The law of 30 July 2013 has led to a radical reform of the judicial landscape in family matters, which has forced many organisational adjustments. An evaluation of the first effects of the law will therefore certainly not be possible this year. However, from the information I have at my disposal, I conclude that the functioning of the chambers of amicable settlement within the family court may differ between jurisdictions. I can refer to the hearings in the Committee on Justice in the Chamber of Representatives of 11 February 2015 on the legislative proposal to amend the legislation with a view to introducing the parental plan in the event of divorce. Juvenile judges from Brussels and Ghent explained the functioning of their chambers for an amicable settlement. In addition, I can also refer to the debate "Room of Friendly Settlement of the Family Court" by GEM Belgium, European Association of Magistrates for Conciliation and Settlement, which was organised on 25 March 2013 in the premises of the Institute for Judicial Training. Several magistrates exchanged their experience over the chambers of friendly settlement. As far as the initiatives to encourage mediation are concerned, I would like to refer to my judicial plan. It states that measures are being taken to ensure that alternative forms of dispute resolution such as mediation are given an equivalent place in judicial law. A number of legislative interventions are being examined in the short term, which should lead to an even greater awareness of mediation. The choice of mediation is encouraged at every stage of the proceedings, while the mediation does not sanction the parties financially, but rather encourages them. For example, a measure was already included in the first potpourriwet, namely the increase of the initial maximum duration of judicial mediation from three to six months. After all, practice has shown that the deadline is too short. Today there are also many different initiatives on mediation in the various courts and courts. I want to map all these practices, with the aim of streamlining them and developing good practices in all courts and courts. Consultations with the Federal Conciliation Commission are currently under way in preparation for the implementation of the amendments to be made to the conciliation legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u89	I thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u90	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, at the beginning of the legislature, I asked you about the June 8, 2006 law regulating economic and individual activities with weapons. The distinction must be made between weapons held for criminal purposes and weapons not declared as a result of the ignorance or negligence of their owners. One of the objectives of the 2006 Act was precisely to bring as many weapons out of hiding as possible and to improve public safety by encouraging their registration. In this regard, the Government Agreement provided for a new reporting period for all those who failed, in good faith, to declare their weapons by 31 October 2008. Minister, can you tell me when the new reporting period will be opened? What means will they be used to inform the public of this new reporting period? What will be the practical modalities of this declaration?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u91	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Cassart, in considering the modalities for the implementation of the two points of the Government Agreement on Arms, my cabinet and my administration have concluded that the new reporting period requires an amendment to the Arms Act. However, the modalities of this new period cannot be simply modelled on the existing law, particularly in view of the ineffectiveness of the first extension of the reporting period. In addition, it is envisaged that certain provisions of the Act which are also problematic will be corrected without any general revision. Finally, it is not only the law that needs to be revised in order to achieve these points of the Government Agreement but also the Royal Decree of 24 April 1997 determining the security conditions during the storage, possession and collection of firearms or ammunition, as well as a ministerial circular and a circular of the College of Attorneys General. Given the complexity and sensitivity of the issues involved, particularly in view of the security requirements, which are particularly crucial today, and the need to consult several stakeholders in advance, it is true that drafting of the texts takes longer than originally planned. I assure you, though. Even if it is still too early to answer your questions precisely, my will to achieve these points as soon as possible has not been taken up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u92	Minister, thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer. If the law is to be amended, each step will have to be followed, but the government agreement will have to be implemented at some point.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u93	Debates of the European Parliament 6486 by Mrs Barbara Pas has been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 6490 by Mrs Renate Hufkens has been withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament 6515 by Mrs Maya Detiège has been postponed. Question No 6535 by Mr Willy Demeyer is postponed. Question No 6575 by Mr Stefaan Van Hecke is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u94	Mr President, Minister, you are aware that certain information is circulating at the social defence centre in Paifve, in the region of Liège. Mr President and I are, I suppose, sensitized by staff and unions on the future of Paifve. We know the retroacts, the Masterplan and the government's willingness to move forward on this issue. I stress, of course, the importance and complexity of this issue. There is also the will to get some people out of prison who have nothing to do with it, who are not objectively in prison conditions, but rather in a social defence centre. Without brandishing the standards of privatization which, according to some, would threaten Paifve, the issue that is currently agitating us is the maintenance of the specificity of the social centre of Paifve, on which I would really like to draw your attention. It is a social defence centre with very heavy cases, as you know, of internees who suffer from extremely heavy pathologies. As a lawyer, you also know that the concept of social defence combines two important concepts: on the one hand, care, which is indispensable, and on the other hand, the protection and security of the population against people who have actually been ill, who have sometimes committed very serious crimes. In Paifve, there are some people who, unfortunately, can be said to never be cared for. At the level of the government, there seems to be a desire to transform the social defence centre into a legal psychiatry centre, as it exists in Flanders, particularly in Antwerp. I do not criticise at all what is being done in Flanders, but I think Paifve is fundamentally different. The concept is not the same. I also heard that Paifve's capacity would be increased by 200 beds. I would point out that this is very positive. Minister, what direction, what concept are you going to defend for Paifve? I would point out that this institution has a very special and unique functioning in Belgium in its way of understanding things. Internment is supposed to be a security measure intended both to protect society and to enable the intern to be provided with the care required by his state for his reintegration into society. The definition is very clear. If there is not enough care in Paifve, they cannot take full advantage of safety measures. I would point out here that the prison officers, who are the same as in a conventional prison, have been told that they will no longer be useful on the site. I am very puzzled about what has been declared by the administration of justice. I know that this is part of a comprehensive policy, of which I stress the very positive elements, for example to take charge of certain cases which must not be in prison. As Members of the Committee on Justice, we have had the opportunity to visit Paifve. We realized that we are not in a scheme of a legal psychiatry centre as it exists in Antwerp or as it will be developed in other parts of the country. Minister, what are your intentions regarding Paifve?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u95	Minister, I have already had the opportunity to alert you in a written question on 31 July. I indicated that it seemed that the intention was to direct Paifve towards a model of a legal psychiatry centre as it exists in Ghent, which would amount to a management of the institution by private partners, without the involvement of professionals currently working in the Paifve social defence institution. What seemed, at the time, to be only a rumour or a distant intention has undergone recent developments. In fact, two weeks ago, during a meeting between the Directorate General PPE, the unions and members of your firm, it would have been confirmed that the establishment of Paifve would be privatized within four to five years, the time that the structure evolves. This makes it possible to see clearly in your intentions and to limit bad rumors. Minister, what are your intentions with respect to this Paifve social defence institution? What are DG PPE's intentions? Do you see any convergence at this level? Has a decision been made yet? Is it true that the Paifve Social Defence Institution will be privatized within four or five years, to operate on the model of the Ghent PLC or a clinic care? If so, what does the term "clinical care" mean? On the contrary, are you considering a full or partial transfer from Paifve's social defence institution to the public health sector? Is shared management of the justice and public health social defence, which is in the favour of professionals, always an option? If not, why would this option no longer be validated? How are the discussions on the future of the Paifve social defence institution and, more broadly, of social defence in Wallonia conducted? Which actors are involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u96	Mr President, Mrs Matz, I will not be able to answer your many questions. At present, the final hand is put to the new Masterplan 3. The existing Masterplan is adapted to submit the new Masterplan 3 to the Council of Ministers for approval. To date, there has been no formal approval, no formal decision. It goes without saying that the projects are drawn up in close cooperation with DG PPE, the competent minister for the Régie and the competent minister for public health. Details of possible projects under this plan will not be available until later. However, the Justice Plan already gives considerable impetus to projects, principles that will be integrated with due attention for differentiation, smaller or otherwise secure forms of detention and projects for internees. On this last point, it is assumed that with regard to the establishment of Paifve, a draft will be drawn up without I can already say in this respect in what form, what will be the implications for the staff and how many places there will be. A project will also be drawn up for Wallonia as regards what is known as the long stay. Discussions are under way with my colleague responsible for public health. I want you to know that I'm hurrying as fast as I can so that uncertainty doesn't reign too long. Unfortunately, I still have to ask you for a few weeks of patience.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u97	Minister, I am not going to hide my great disappointment, even if I understand your answer. The consultation between the administration, your firm, the management of the centre of Paifve and the unions took place about fifteen days ago. Some things had been announced to them. Today, you tell us that nothing is yet planned. The parliamentarians we are frustrated with not being able to reassure the people of the social defence centre who interviewed us. If the project is not finalized, and it seems to be the case, since it will be included in the Masterplan, I invite you to reflect on this situation, which is not similar to that of the other centres for interns. To apply formulas uniformly on the grounds that they work elsewhere would be a fundamental mistake in view of the population living in Paifve. So much the better that the decision is not made, since we can still give you a little advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u98	So you're only half disappointed!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u99	I am less frustrated than my colleague, as the minister pointed out the huge gap between rumours and a decision. It is true that our questions allow us to alert you again about the specifics of this centre, which you know. It is not at all abnormal to announce that a decision has not yet been made. The strength of the parliamentarian is also to be able to put an end to certain rumours. Discussions there, decision there is no. That is what I withdrew from the Minister's intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u100	Mr President, Minister, a few weeks ago, the newspaper De Morgen published a series of articles on information security in our public services. This shows that a number of documents with sensitive information could be found online on government websites. Between those documents we also found the addresses of various branches of the State Security. The State Security Service is a Department of Justice and is the only civil secret service in Belgium. With a secret service, it is important that the location of those services can also be kept secret. This is important not only for the protection of staff and of our general security, when the exact location is known, but also to protect a large part of the network around the service as well as the partners with which the State Security works. Thus, if the addresses concerned were known or would be disclosed, it is known how the building is rented or used, for example, or whether the service is effectively the owner of it and under which name the fixed costs are charged, invoiced and paid. In addition, we also found online which architect for the Security of the State has carried out assignments. We believe that such information is deemed to be confidential. That is why I would like to have an answer to the following questions. Have you been informed that such information could easily be found online? Have you already taken steps to delete the addresses and any other sensitive information on the Internet? Finally, to date, addresses of some branches are still available on the internet. Can you assure us that these addresses can disappear from the Internet soon?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u101	Mr Top, I have not yet been informed of the documents available online via the Regie website. For further information on information security related to the Government of the Buildings, please refer to the Minister responsible, Mr Jambon. I can tell you that I have been in contact with the Security of the State in this respect, which will remind the Government of the Buildings, by means of a written note, of the expectations of data protection. Finally, I can also tell you that the State Security has the method of detecting online documents that are potentially harmful to the performance of its tasks, taking all possible measures legally available to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u102	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I would just like to refer to the argument I have just used in my question. If data from the State Security or addresses of the State Security are available online, this will allow you to easily expose the network around the State Security and enter those contacts into a network. Secondly, this will, of course, make the people who work for the security of the state public. So I think this is a rather serious situation. In addition, it is important to know that it is not just about the addresses of the State's Security. Quite a few other documents could be found there as well, regardless of state security or justice. The Minister responsible, Mr Jambon, has also been informed of this. With regard to your response to the contact with the Government of the Buildings, I would like to make one more point. If I have it right, this morning is still checked and that data has been effectively removed from the website of the Regie der Buildings. However, the Internet is of such a nature that quite a few data are left behind. State Security Specialists, who should know the ICT capabilities, should be able to erase those things on the Internet. I'm explaining myself more clearly. On Google cache, for example, everything can still be found online. I would recommend and insist that these people also clean up the memory that can be found on the internet about State Security.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-07-54-commissie-ic240x.u103	Question No 6626 and Question No 6628 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu Mrs Van Vaerenbergh's 6636 were converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Bellens' 6615 lapses because she is not here.
