ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u2	The President (in front of the standing assembly) Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, on 10 February Paul Peeters, honorary member of the Chamber of Representatives, died. He was 79. After his classical humanities at the Onze-Lieve-Vrouwelecollege in Tienen, he studied trade and financial sciences and work organisation at the University of Leuven. During his studies he was a political assistant to CVP senator Hendrik Delport for four years. After his studies, in 1959, Paul Peeters started working in business. He became the managing director of several companies and held various positions in small and medium-sized enterprises and trade associations. In 1960 he founded a food company that would provide a lot of jobs in Kapelle-op-den-Bos and surroundings. Paul Peeters came into contact with the Flemish Movement via the Flemish Federation of Catholic Scouts and the Leuven branch of the Catholic Flemish High Student Union. He joined the Volksunie in 1965 and immediately became involved in political life. First at the provincial and communal levels: in 1968 he became a member of the provincial council of Brabant and, three years later, a member of the communal council of Kapelle-op-den-Bos, where he also held the position of first bishop. In the 1974 general election, Paul Peeters was elected MP on the Volksunie lists. For four years he showed himself to be a very active member of the Committee for Economic Affairs, the Committee for Foreign Trade and the Committee for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, of which he was chairman for two years. During this first period as MP, he was also national secretary of the People's Union. After a three-year interruption, Paul Peeters returned to the national political scene: first as a senator directly elected in 1981 and then for a second term as a Member of Parliament. He was also a member of the Vlaamse Raad, where he chaired the Foreign Affairs Committee. In 1987 Paul Peeters left national politics to fully focus on his commune of Kapelle-on-den-Bos, where he has been mayor for a year. After the end of that term, he would remain a city council member for another five years. He attached great importance to the local social fabric, and therefore fully supported the association life in his municipality. Paul Peeters was a driven but also an amable politician and entrepreneur. A real family man, too, who did everything for his family. On behalf of the Chamber, I have expressed my sincere condolences to his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u3	The chairman has presented the political curriculum of Paul Peeters. I had the pleasure of working with him a while ago. I would like to draw attention to Paul Peeters' entrepreneurship, which was embedded in the local community of Kapelle-op-den-Bos and surrounding areas, and which was characterised by social entrepreneurship. One proof of this is that he was also called Polle Pate in that local community. After all, he ran a meat processing plant. We pay homage here to the politician Paul Peeters, but also to the social entrepreneur Paul Peeters. I agree with the President's mourning.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u4	Mr President, allow me to speak about our work. We have the pleasure of having an exchange of views tomorrow in the Finance Committee with Secretary of State Sleurs on her fifteen-point plan against tax fraud. The committee members were allowed to receive the 15-point plan from the Secretary of State through the committee secretariat. However, I am particularly surprised at a statement by the Secretary of State in the newspaper in response to the criticism of the full three pages of her action plan. I quote: "Sp.a. got a communication note. On Friday, the full plan will be explained in detail in the Chamber. I think we should all be shocked about that. The Secretary of State has formally delivered her 15-point plan to Parliament and now says that this is just a communication note and that we will discuss something else tomorrow. As a Parliament, we cannot accept that we will not discuss tomorrow what the Secretary of State has presented to us. If there is another document on the table tomorrow, I find it incredible that the Secretary of State has not yet delivered it to us and I expect it to do so in the shortest possible time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u5	Even if that point was not raised, I take advantage of the presence of the chairman of the Finance Committee and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u6	Mr President, with regard to the organisation of work, we were informed today at 1 p.m. by the Clerk that a mini-debate on the circular on tax regularization would be held. Let me be surprised how the debates are organised. Yesterday, in the Finance Committee, the issue was discussed without any change to the agenda. It took long enough to complete this circular. We are, of course, happy to be able to debate, but we believe objectively that this is a mockery of debate. How, at this stage, can we say more than what was said yesterday, without obtaining further opinions from the Court of Auditors or the Council of State? I'm not talking about the substance of the case, I'm talking about the form. So this is a totally improvised debate. We sincerely wonder whether we want to debate the substance of the matter or whether it is a matter of pretending to be transparent. In this case, however, transparency really does not prevail. Yesterday in committee, Mr President of the Committee on Finance will confirm this, we have not heard of any changes to the agenda, just as we have not received any amendments for this plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u7	Once it is not customary, I would like to thank the President. Yesterday, in the Conference of Presidents, we learned that the question of the regularisation circular would be asked in committee. It was clear to all the groups. A very important intervention was made by my colleague from Sp.a., who first regretted that we did not receive the circular early enough, and then welcomed the fact that it was made available to us. We thought it would be over with yesterday's debate, for the first time in any case, even if the minister did not explain much. However, we realized that a topical question was going to be asked on the same subject by one of the groups today. The choice was therefore made of a mini-debate allowing everyone to intervene. I support this choice. Another possibility would be to postpone this debate until next week. In any case, I support the collective approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u8	The Conference of Presidents took this decision on the Finance Committee. It happens that our formation is not represented at this Conference of Presidents, which means that we do not benefit from certain information. This poses a major procedural problem. Either we should be able to attend the Conference of Presidents, even without voting rights, or we should be informed live of the decisions of this meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u9	Mr. Hedebouw e-mailed me about this a few days ago. He will receive an answer today. I now give the floor to the chairman of the Finance Committee and then to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u10	Mr President, on Mr Vanvelthoven's question, two weeks ago, a state of play was taken on the committee's recommendations on combating tax fraud in 2009. We want to see how many of the 108 recommendations have been implemented and we have asked for an inventory, both from the Court of Auditors and from Minister Sleurs. The Minister then announced a plan on tax fraud. That was very positive, because the opposition has been asking for weeks where the government is going with its measures and is suggesting that the government does not come out with anything and does nothing. Now the Minister comes out with a 15-point programme, which, although not approved by the government, sets out a number of ideas to meet the recommendations that have not been implemented. I did not look at the document as a document to be taken or left, but rather as a discussion document, in which a number of points are raised and on which we can discuss it openly on Friday. It may give inspiration to the government to take into account a number of Parliament's comments before the plan is finally submitted to the government. So I wouldn't be looking for anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u11	Mr President, the situation outlined by Mr Van Rompuy is indeed correct. These are 15 action points or priorities, to which I will pay particular attention. Tomorrow, together with the other recommendations, I have been asked to give a very detailed account of the state of the fight against fraud in this country. It goes without saying, however, that I have also informed you that these are matters which are still to be discussed, including with the other relevant ministers. They are indeed open to discussion. However, I would like to give it priority. They will be discussed tomorrow in the relevant committee, in which Parliaments will be able to ask their questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u12	Mr President, the two reactions are totally in addition to the issue. That's not the point. Madam Secretary of State, Mr Sleurs, the point is not that your 15-point action plan is on the table. That is what we like. Finally, we can discuss the plan. The point is that you say in the newspaper today that it is a communication paper and that tomorrow the general plan will follow. So there is something other than that fifteen-point plan that we cannot see until today. Now the Secretary of State says that, on the one hand, she will give an evaluation of the past and, on the other hand, there is the fifteen-point plan. The paper says there's something else, and that's my point. You're not answering that. If another document is presented tomorrow, I find this way of working unworthy of Parliament. If nothing comes tomorrow, Mrs Sleurs, then you should not put it in the paper and pretend that our criticism of your fifteen points is poor, because it is only about form and not about content. You submitted a 15-point plan, not us. We are critical because there are only fifteen points in the plan. Do not stop saying that there is something still to come, which we have not yet seen today, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u13	I suggest we wait for tomorrow's meeting. As regards what you said, Mrs Matz, I did have a consultation with all the group leaders and everyone felt it was appropriate to hold a topical debate this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u14	Mr President, even though the Conference of Presidents has decided that a debate will take place yesterday in the Committee on Finance on this circular, at the beginning and two thirds of the committee, the committee has never changed its work and the parliamentarians present have never been warned. The document has been circulated. We consulted the report. I was there. We passed the first bill. Then a debriefing took place on the Eurogroup. As a result, the questions were planned. I had two questions on the agenda and asked them. It was never decided to change the agenda. The Finance Committee has not decided to change its agenda. I find it very regrettable that not all political groups have had access to information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u15	I propose that the Finance Committee itself should decide on its agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, because of the energy minister's agenda problems, we shall begin with questions to Mrs Marghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u17	You also heard yesterday, Minister, that the European Commission proposed the new Energy Union. They want to work on a great deal of cooperation. We can only encourage these plans. The problems of producing energy in a safe and sustainable way and the problems of climate change and affordable energy are now problems for 28 Member States. There are 28 different answers to the 28 questions that are asked each time. One coherent European response could lead to more energy security, lower costs and efficiency gains. It could also make energy prices more competitive. We are also very dependent on many external sources of energy. We buy more than EUR 400 billion in energy outside the EU, which puts us in a weak position. This also makes energy a geopolitical weapon and a source of uncertainty. We are well aware of this, for example when we hear threats from Russia to shut down the gas tap. These are important points of attention. Climate challenges can also be better addressed in groups. The climate objectives that Europe is pursuing can be better achieved in cooperation than each individual in its own way. In addition to uniformity, reduced energy dependence and tackling climate problems, security of supply is a fourth reason to support the Energy Union. As part of the changeover plan which has been discussed a great deal in recent months, it has only become clear that interconnection is very important for a country such as Belgium. I therefore ask you, on behalf of my party, to take the lead in this matter. It will only improve security of supply and our energy bill. I have two more questions. Firstly, does the federal government share the European Commission's vision and intend to clearly support the European Commission's position? Secondly, if certain countries were not to participate, would you be prepared to play a leading role with our neighbouring countries and form a kind of coalition of the willing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as expected, the European Commission has today published its communication on a strategic framework for an Energy Union. Belgium strongly supports the idea of establishing a European Energy Union based on the five pillars proposed by the European Commission. These five pillars are: firstly, security, solidarity and confidence; secondly, the completion of the internal market; thirdly, the reduction in energy demand; fourthly, a low-carbon economy and fifthly, technological research and innovation. Last January, I had the opportunity to have a meeting with Mr Sefcovic, Vice-President of the European Commission, in charge of the Energy Union. We believe that these pillars effectively reflect the main work and priorities of what an Energy Union should be. We believe that the 2030 Energy Climate Framework, adopted in October 2014, is an essential part of the strategy of this Energy Union. To repeat, this framework sets a clear course for energy and climate across the European Union until 2030, with a binding reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of at least 40%, a target of 27 % of renewable energy sources and an indicative target of 27% to improve energy efficiency. The development of a transparent and effective governance system and administrative simplification could be relevant in the wider context of the Energy Union. Greater coordination of national energy policies will bring many benefits, linked to the security of supply of all the Member States of the European Union. A good and effective supply of the internal energy market and a transition to low carbon energy systems should mitigate and reduce the European Union's energy dependence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u19	You've already spoken for 2 minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u20	Mr Wilrycx, I will give you the rest of my answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u21	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We have a strict chairman. I'll read the rest of your answer. In any case, I am satisfied with the answer given. A small country such as Belgium certainly recognises the need for a common market and interconnection. We have attended many committee meetings over the last few months on the closure plan. If this Energy Union had been there then, we would not have needed those meetings. In the future, Belgium will not only be a customer in the energy market. It also has its own assets, for example the atoll built in the North Sea. That's one of the things we can bring in. In short, this is definitely an important item to follow up on.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u22	Mr President, Minister, last week the press echoed the abolition, since 1 January, of the measures to exempt job seekers from seeking employment for social or family reasons. Until then, some had been granted a reduced unemployment benefit in exchange for their non-availability on the labour market. It is true that the government agreement – which we can all welcome – paid particular attention to measures to promote employment and recovery. Everyone knows how the creation and activation of employment embodies the cornerstone of safeguarding our social security, so dear to our Prime Minister and his government. The extension measures in favour of close paid carers, as foreseen by the government, already considerably improve the situation which prevailed during the previous parliamentary term. But if the examples and situations relayed in recent days are sometimes extremes, it is necessary to pay full attention to them. Recent professional agreements prove this: the government wants to stay close to the economic concerns of the population. Here's my question. As we have learned in the past few days, the government, through the Prime Minister, has decided to take up the problem with arms to find a solution that includes all close caregivers, wage earners, self-employed or unemployed. This solution from the majority is welcomed by the associations of close caregivers. Minister, can you explain to us the new conditions for access to these measures for employees? What amounts will be released for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u23	Mr President, Minister, since November, Members of Parliament, Ecolo-Groen, have been calling on you regularly to highlight the employment policies pursued by the government. These policies are characterized by a reduction in income and by the exclusion of people such as part-time workers, career breaks, unemployed people who have not been able to work full-time long enough and, we have denounced, people who are unemployed and who are exempt from labour market availability because they are caring for a family member. A few days ago, representatives of families and single women with children or caring for their families understood that there were these risks in your disposition and called for help. What do you say to them? You tell them that caring for a sick person or someone who is dependent does not prevent them from being available and coming to find a job. This answer is simply scandalous! It does not take into account the social reality of these people. In addition, this response is totally inconsistent with that of your colleague CD&V in the Flemish Region, which is constantly saying that it will put in place means to support the associations of close caregivers. You, in the federal government, opt for another policy. Your answer was so scandalous that, a few days later, you come back to that answer and say you're going to make arrangements. The Prime Minister responds to my colleague Anne Dedry, who is particularly familiar with the subject, that the Council of Ministers will take decisions and change this position. Minister, what have you done in the last few days? How are you going to work and what timing? Will you use the expertise in this Parliament? Bills are being tabled and parliamentarians, including my colleague Anne Dedry, are particularly familiar with the sector for their work. Will you integrate these riches and skills into your work?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u24	There was also a question from Mrs. Fonck about close caregivers, but she is excused. I give the floor to the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. It is an opportunity to clarify the status and history of this file. We have decided to delete Article 90. This article is entitled:Vrijstelling voor familiale en sociale redenen van actieve beschikbaarheid op de arbeidsmarkt. This discussion was also held by the previous government. I looked that up. Those who then tabled proposals to delete Article 90 are well aware that this was also part of the discussions in the previous government. I also know very well who put Article 90 back on the table during the negotiations and I can tell you that it was certainly not me or my party. All the relevant information is therefore completely incorrect. It is true, however, that this government has taken a number of decisions in its entirety and one of them was the deletion of Article 90. I can tell you that at that time we did not have sufficient estimates, and I am sure that this would also affect the carers. When a journalist asked us for information on this for the first time, we simply explained the decision along with the figures. When I came back from vacation, I thought that from my powers I would clarify this very quickly and draw up a new royal decision. The new Royal Decree was discussed and approved in the Interkabinets Working Group. In that draft royal decree it is clearly stated, with regard to care, that, by analogy with the time-credit, there is an exemption for the unemployed as regards the obligation to be actively available on the labour market. That draft royal decree was sent today to the Management Committee of the RVA and the federal government will discuss it on Friday. I would like to stress once again that this is the responsibility of the Minister concerned, who can approve it without consultation in the Council of Ministers. In this way, I think we have acted very quickly. We will also discuss the insurance of the carers. Mr Borsus has also made a proposal for the self-employed. In my view, this is a regrettable incident in which certain completely incorrect messages were sent to the world, whether or not via Twitter. I have just explained how we have dealt with this problem and we will also develop the statute for carers. The most important thing for me is that we now have a regulation for people who are unemployed and who are committed to the palliative care of sick children, just as we do for workers who take motivated time credits. I hope that we will be able to reassure everyone on Friday, with the KB in hand, in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u26	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer. We are pleased that the government, under the leadership of our Prime Minister and with all the ministers involved in this issue, has been able to find an answer. We see that the government is really sensitive to all these things that affect our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u27	Minister, I cannot accept a first element of your answer. To say that the measure was taken by the previous government is of no concern to me. The exclusions of a whole range of people from their rights actually date from the previous government. But to say that at that time and under this government you did not measure the impact of these measures is not acceptable. Both in the Committee on Social Affairs and in plenary, we have kept on paying attention to this and repeating it to you. You didn't want to listen to us or correct that. Don't say you weren't aware of the impact of the measures. The solutions that you are submitting to us today in your proposals are very limited in relation to the extent of the needs to be met. I therefore strongly advise you to take note of the proposals for legislation on the table and to accept that here in Parliament there is a real debate at the beginning of the competences acquired by parliamentarians by virtue of meeting these people for many years. Finally, you say that this is not your responsibility, since the decision was taken by another party of the majority. As for the conflicts between the N-VA and the CD&V, the subject is so serious that these considerations should not be addressed. The measures taken must be taken and corrected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u28	Minister, there is still a great deal of concern among many bridge-retired people. Honestly, not a day goes by without receiving emails in which those involved explain their problems and concerns to me and ask for clarity. You know those e-mails, because you're in cc all the time. So I don't have to explain them to you. For my fellow Members, however, I would like to mention what this is all about. Bridge pensioners who had reached the age of 58 or had worked for 40 years had previously no longer to be available for the labour market. But since January 1, 2015, the rules of the game have been changed by a royal decree. Minister, you have changed the rules not only for future bridge pensioners, but also for those who were already in the system. Bridge pensioners who have not been available for five or six years are now suddenly called up as a result of the KB, which you have taken. I already questioned you about this in December. I've already made it clear to you that you're breaking contract. In the meantime, we're two months away. My question is very clear. At that time, you indicated that you would seek a solution. What solution do you offer to those involved? After two months, they can now have a clear answer. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u29	Minister, this is not the first time I've asked you about this. On December 30, 2014, you issued a royal decree in catimini, which cancels all forms of exceptions on the fact, for pre-pensioners, of remaining active in the labour market. This has had a huge impact, as these workers must continue to look for work up to the age of 65. Minister, we are not only a party of words, but also of deeds. We have launched an e-mail campaign in which we have asked all the workers and servants who were the victims to forward their testimonies to you. Our counter went a bit in red, Minister, and I would therefore like to ask you how many e-mails you have just received. We stopped at 1 083 testimonials. I brought them for you. (Mr Hedebouw put a map on the Minister's desk.) In these testimonies, the first point is that there is a breach of contact. Those concerned indicate that they did not sign up for it. I quote: "Never had I left on a bridge pension, I would have known that." Someone else says, I quote: "They lied to me when I said yes for my bridge pension." Many bridge-retired people have even put aside part of their premium from Ford Genk or Arcelor Mittal in order to qualify for a bridge-retirement pension. No one told them they should be looking for work until they were 65 years old. Second testimony: the workers are at the end. Illnesses, back problems, osteoarthritis, fatigue, stress... the workers are done, and that's what comes back in all these testimonies, minister. My question is very clear. You answered us the last time there was a negotiation at the Group of 10. You told us you'd have a short-term answer. Today, all these people are in the collimator. Minister, I would like to ask you two questions. First, are you going to go back to this royal decree? The European Court of Human Rights clearly states that we must not revert to acquired rights. Belgium has been reprimanded for that a few times. So you can certainly not say that it is legal to return to agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u30	Minister, this is the fourth time, but if it is necessary, it will be ten or twenty times! The social damage caused by your government is no longer significant. Mrs. Gerkens just asked you about the close caregivers. Fifteen days ago, I asked a question about people with disabilities who were excluded from integration allowances. And we can go on, it's a long list! In this case, they are the people who have had access to the pre-pension and against whom you have unilaterally decided to transform their starting conditions. To those people who have agreed to go to pre-pension, depending on particular circumstances in their company, sometimes after a long career, sometimes in health situations that do not allow them to work objectively, you ask to remain available on the labour market, regardless of the employment situation in the subregion in which they live. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government and of the majority, this is a breach of contract, which means breach of contract means breach of trust. Today, we are besieged by testimonies, by questioning people who are in this situation, not to mention the impact on young workers, who would also like to work and who find themselves in the same job market as those people who would simply and normally want to take this period before their legal pension. Minister, the question is simple. What are the adjustment measures, in the absence of the removal of this measure that you have undertaken, in relation to the career duration of the persons concerned, in relation to their age, in relation to the contract they signed upon leaving their company, in relation to the employment situation in their subregion? Then I suggest that you adjust other anti-social measures of your government, but gradually, we will reduce the anti-social character of your government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed the third or fourth time that this question has been asked. I don't have a problem with that. I have already stressed that this is a serious problem, especially for certain workers at Ford Genk, and also in Wallonia. Mr Hedebouw, I felt my cell phone shaking day and night when the messages of your party's action came in. I didn't print them myself. Thank you for having them on paper now, so at least I can keep them. The most important thing, of course, is to find a solution to this problem. I hope you are aware that we have asked the social partners for answers and solutions. The Group of Ten has a certain meeting rhythm. Well, whenever you try to hunt me down for a solution for those involved, I try to encourage the Group of Ten to come forward with a proposal as soon as possible. You're talking about breach of contract. However, you also know that we have passed all the royal decisions on to the social partners to see what adjustments needed to be made. It has been said that availability would be discussed further. I hope that the solution of the Group of Ten is almost complete. On Monday, I understood that the Group of 10 will hold a meeting for the third or fourth time to reflect and propose solutions to the government. If the Group of Ten gets out, it's on my table and I'll discuss it in the federal government as it should be. I've already noticed that when I go a little too fast, this triggers reactions. The most important thing here is that there will be a solution. Mr Dewael, I understand that I already have your support, and that is already settled. All madness on a stick, it's a very important problem. We asked the Group of Ten to give us an answer as soon as possible. I hope you agree with me that we should wait for them before this problem is discussed by the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. This is indeed a serious problem. Many people wake up every day in the hope that they will receive the redeeming e-mail or telephone message that will finally give them clarity and confirm that the contract they have signed is being respected. Minister, I would like to remind you that I warned you about this before the Royal Decree was published. You had the opportunity to postpone the KB and first to find a solution, but you chose to publish the KB and leave those involved in uncertainty. So I really urge you to find a solution for these people as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u33	Mr Minister, it should first be pointed out that no agreement had been reached within the Group of 10 on the Royal Decree of 30 December. It's worth reminding him. I do not think that the trade union organisations would have approved such a regression in terms of rights for pre-pensioners. Secondly, and the moment seems important to me for the social movement, I am pleased to hear for the first time that this government is showing openness, under pressure, as to the possibility of reviewing this royal decree if the decision of the Group of 10 goes in that direction. This can only be an encouragement to the entire social movement to continue and push the door to get the withdrawal of this anti-social text. I therefore hope that several royal decrees will be withdrawn in order to go in the social direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u34	Minister, we will therefore see whether an agreement will be reached within the Group of 10 or 8 and whether the government will apply it. I'm going to give you a list of the steps that the government should take to reverse. We just mentioned the pre-pensions. I would add the exclusion of integration allowances – I am thinking of the measure decided by the Di Rupo government, but also of yours, which applies to those under 21 and over 25 years of age –; the supplement of the allowance for part-time workers, especially workers; the supplement for older workers seeking employment, the assimilations in terms of pensions; the definition of suitable employment. I'm going through with some of the worst. All these measures, Minister, affect the most fragile: families, children, etc. It is then too easy for our colleagues who are also mayors to sign conventions to combat child poverty at the municipal level. It is at the heart of the problems that we must work on. We must safeguard and modernise our social security rather than destroy it piece by piece as you do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u35	The answer will be given by the Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u36	Mr President, first of all I regret that the Minister of Justice is not here to answer. It was not announced as absent or excused and I hope that this will not prevent his representative, the Minister for Employment, from giving me useful answers. Minister, when I asked your colleague the Minister of Justice on January 14 of this year about this Kazakhgate issue, also known as the Chodiev file, and perhaps soon under the name of one of our former colleagues in the Senate, he confirmed important elements to me. You know that in France, an investigation is under way with the charge of bribery of a foreign public official. The Minister of Justice confirmed to me on 14 January that the French judicial authorities had sent a request for mutual legal assistance to the Belgian authorities, a rogatory commission. This initial report led to the opening of criminal information for X. So there is an ongoing investigation, which we can be pleased with, but it must now move forward. I would be concerned, in the light of the new information most recently, i.e. yesterday, that the potential existence of a €700,000 payment to a lawyer also with a political role is not being investigated to overturn or confirm the serious accusations made. Mr Minister for Employment, representing the Minister for Justice, in accordance with the separation of powers, I would like to have information on the investigative duties which have been undertaken or which are programmed in this matter which is serious enough that there is a positive injunction from the Minister for Justice. On the other hand, but this is not the heart of my question, it will be necessary to assess and correct above all this principle of amicable criminal transaction in tax matters which is absolutely unjust, ineffective and unbearable with regard to tax justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u37	Mr President, I would like to begin by apologising to the Minister of Justice. He's in Paris right now. I will try to put the answer to the two questions on my french shoulders and to answer you. I have received an answer in Dutch from the Minister of Justice. As far as your first question is concerned, the Minister of Justice refers to the debate in the Chambers in which he informed you that an investigation was initiated following a request for legal aid from the French authorities. The prosecution informed the Minister of Justice that no new information could be provided on this matter since the reply of 14 January. The investigation has not yet been completed. As far as your second question is concerned, the Minister of Justice has given me a rather comprehensive answer. The Minister of Justice has already answered several questions in the Justice Committee on the results of the evaluation study on the application of the extended amicable settlement in criminal matters. He lists the questions of Mr Stefaan Van Hecke and Mr Olivier Maingain which were converted into written questions. In short, he can state that this evaluation study does not show that the law on the extended friendly settlement, Article 216a of the Code of Criminal Procedure, needs to be thoroughly reformed. However, the procedure may be clarified and amended in some respects in order to eliminate inaccuracies and divergent interpretations of certain provisions. In the light of the positive results of this study, the College of Attorneys General has expressed the desire to establish a genuine criminal law policy in this area. A press release has been sent out on this subject. When the Minister of Justice returns, he will come back to your question in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u38	Minister, your excuse is not to be the Minister of Justice, but your answer is particularly weak. To the question of how this investigation is proceeding, which I was informed of on January 14, you answer that it is taking its course and that there is no new element. I think the facts are serious enough for the justice system, including the Minister of Justice, to be concerned about the separation of powers. If no information is obtained, no results are obtained in this case, as in other cases concerning corruption or fraud previously, there should be real questions about the functioning of our justice and above all real answers. We must begin by reviewing this system of amicable criminal transactions, which leads to class justice. You need to empower Justice to deal with financial crime much better than it does today. I am also sending a message to this Parliament concerning the establishment of the future ethics committee decided in the context of the sixth reform of the State. With this tool, one might wonder if being a senator and advising a great fraudster in a case of this kind is legal, ethical and ethical. This question has not yet arisen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u39	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last Monday the OCAD set the threat level again at 3, so seriously. You know my position on this matter. I believe that the OCAD should continue to be able to do so in full independence. I would not like to see the definition of the threat level ever being the subject of political deliberation. When the OCAD does so, we must take note of it and bear its consequences. What are the consequences? I'm gonna think about it for a second. The day-to-day operation of the police must, of course, remain guaranteed. We know that, as a result of the Crisis Cell's teachings, the police commissaries are being extra protected and that a perimeter has been set up. This has an impact on overtime, on weekend performance and on engagement. The patrols should in principle also take place with two people, just to cite that example. In short, the continuation of threat level 3 has consequences in any case. Just look at the traffic regulations, traffic surveillance around the schools, the flash checks. Minister, on the one hand I fully agree that the OCAD should continue to determine the level of threat. On the other hand, I would like our police to be able to continue to assume their daily responsibilities. Never washed a good crisis, I'd say. It is now urgent to begin the key tasks debate. Today, the police are still too busy with a number of improper tasks. Today, the police still have to carry out tasks that are not really related to police work. My point is that, on the one hand, our country must be able to respond to the level of threat that has been apprehended, but, on the other hand, it must also be able to guarantee that basic daily tasks are carried out. Hence my questions, Minister. There is a key task note from the Commissioner-General, Mrs De Bolle. Professor Bruggeman let his light shine over it. When will you come to Parliament with a note giving your views on the key tasks debate? What question will you address to Parliament in this respect? There are already proposals of law. Will you give Parliament a guaranteed input in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u40	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, as our colleague Dewael said, the OCAM maintained the threat at level 3 on Monday. This is obviously an important decision for our security, for the feeling of security or insecurity, for the sensitivity, and for our public freedoms. I agree with Mr Dewael that the OCAM must take this decision independently. I salute that fact. But it is important for Parliament to be able to address this issue. Without asking you to enter into confidentiality, I would like to know why this situation is maintained throughout the country. What does maintaining measures mean? What are the measures that a mayor, normally diligent and careful, must take to be at level 3? We do not know and we must know! Finally, we need to know for how long we are going to have to maintain these devices. The local police are affected in their various tasks and this is starting to cause problems on the ground. This is where I'm going to start moving away from Mr. Dewael. He tells us that this is the time to return to the list of tasks that remain under the responsibility of one police officer and those that may be entrusted to others. Some will say, including my group, that it is actually a matter of privatising! I would prefer to go back to the recent statements by Minister Vandeput, who told us that these measures cost EUR 2 million and will be borne by the Ministry of the Interior. Mr Minister, I would like to know on which budget line you are going to work because some important services, which have played their part well, are affected by budget cuts. Finally, my colleague from Antwerp is wondering how we'll do tomorrow if the police can't count on the army. As for me, I ask you whether you consider the army to be a law enforcement service that is structurally present on the ground. What is your own opinion about this and what is the government's opinion about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will first give you information about the local police. It is true that my services have already sent a circular to the various local areas at the start of terrorist level 3 to explain two lists of tasks. There is a first list of tasks which must always be assured and a second list of tasks from which to choose with common sense. For this second list, the deliberation is done by the local zone which decides which tasks are of primary importance for the zone and which tasks can be temporarily moved aside. That's a first element. Secondly, the police continue to perform their usual basic functions. It must be clear that there are no exceptions to this. Of course, if necessary, additional police personnel will be mobilized to carry out these new missions. In smaller areas, this situation can be a problem. In this case, less priority tasks will be temporarily abandoned. Mr Dewael, I have already replied a few times on the key tasks debate. It is the intention of this government to conclude the debate on the core tasks that has been going on for ten years. As I have always said, a task force has been set up and we expect a report from it at the end of February this week or next week. We'll keep that timeline. After that, I will start consultations with the social partners, with the Associations of Cities and Municipalities and with Parliament, before we submit a proposal to the government for legislative work. The aim is to conclude this debate in the short term and to draw up the list of tasks. I see three possibilities. Firstly, there are tasks that we consider effective as key tasks for the police, so real police tasks. Secondly, there are tasks that may have been important once, but that must not happen again today. I hope there are some of them. Thirdly, there are tasks that can also be carried out by other bodies in our society. I am thinking here of public services, but also of private companies that can carry out tasks that are cheaper and more efficient. This work is currently being prepared and the consultation rounds will take place shortly. Mr Demeyer, with regard to the budget, it is clear that our first priority is security. We must therefore make security budgets. You know very well that the budgetary review will take place in March. So the problem will be addressed because you're right, maintaining level 3 threat, it costs money. With regard to your question about the army, no, the aim is not to keep the army in the streets in all cases as some claim. According to the government's decision, when we are at threat level 3, we can use 300 soldiers for our protection. I don't want to avoid the debate. There's a discussion about Level 2, raised to 3 in some places. The real debate is whether the police have the capacity to provide protection. And that depends on the level 2 definition for which places. The first step is to determine which places should be protected and to be sure that they can be protected. If it is not certain, other available resources must be examined in order to be able to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u42	I would like to thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer. I take note of the fact that you ensure that the basic tasks of the police are guaranteed at present, even with threat level 3, in any case. The point I want to make today is that our country, compared to our neighbouring countries, has almost the highest number of police officers per capita. It must therefore be possible, with the commitment and efficient reorganisation of the police, to effectively deal with threat level 3 on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to ensure the security of citizens. Mr Demeyer, the rejection of improper police duties is not the same as privatising the police. There are a lot of tasks and assignments today that the Justice Department is asking the police to carry out. An example of this is the delivery of pieces, the playing of biller as it were to mean pieces to the people. Many other things, such as the transfer of prisoners to prison, are also lost for hours. If we can ensure that expensive police training can be used for the safety of the people and if everything else can be disposed of, then we have taken another big step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u43	Minister, I take note of the various answers you have given. I must tell you that we are concerned about the budgetary component of the response, as we know that all the ministers have told us that we will draw on the EUR 300 million available from the reserve. I don't know how we're gonna meet all these needs. Secondly, for the time being a number of police tasks have not been completed, particularly in the vicinity of some schools. Thirdly, vis-à-vis the mayors, we need to know when we will go back from level 3 to level 2. For my group, we would like to see a return, as soon as possible and in consultation with the OCAM, to a police force entrusted to police officers and implementing the community police.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u44	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we all know by now that our fire-fighting reform has taken place since 1 January 2015. I should like to know that 28 of the 34 assisted areas have already acquired legal personality. There is, of course, also a financial responsibility linked to that legal personality, which is governed by the law of 25 May 2007. The funding is done, on the one hand, by a municipal donation and, on the other hand, by a federal donation. The local authorities have done their utmost to align the relevant keys before 1 November 2014. If that didn't work out, the provincial governor would have come to the rescue. The concern lies rather with the federal dotation. The case is getting a little more complex there. The federal budget is again divided into two parts, a basic amount or amount, of which we know the amount, but we do not yet know when it will be paid out, and, secondly, an additional amount, which was agreed during the previous parliamentary term. To date, however, this amount has not yet been confirmed. I can tell you, also in my capacity as chairman of a relief zone, that this additional amount has been included in the budget. That is why I have two very short, clear, powerful questions. I hope for short but hopeful answers. Firstly, Minister, can you tell us when the basic amount will be paid? My second question is based on the first question. Can we already obtain the figures for the additional amount? We could also read on the website of the VVSG in the minutes of the meeting of the advisory committee that we were allowed to know the amounts in question about mid-February 2015. We are now almost at the end of February 2015. The local authorities are very curious about your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u45	Mr President, Mr Metsu, thank you for your questions. I also understand them in the current difficult period for our firefighters. After all, we are at the beginning of a reform. When a reform is implemented in the field, it is always difficult. It is important at that time that the federal government keeps its promise. As far as the basic allocation is concerned, I instructed my services to pay it out in March. So that payment will be made next month. The order was given. As far as the advisory committee and the additional funding are concerned, we can play with words, I thought we had committed ourselves to February. Yesterday, the letter to the zones in which it is made clear what basic allocation and what additional allocation they will be able to count on. I therefore believe that we have done our job.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u46	Minister, your answer welcomes not only our N-VA group, but this whole plenum and also the local authorities. It is a crucial step in the further development and unwinding of our relief zones. That goes without saying. I am also pleased that the Committee on the Interior will soon be holding a thematic meeting on fire reform. After all, there are still a lot of questions and hot irons. We hope to deal with them together with you, but I insist on thanking you on behalf of all the mayors and all the staff of the fire zones.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u47	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, according to some sources, 500,000 people, if not 700,000 for others, would be parked in Libya and would be ready to board the Italian coast. According to telephone taps, the Islamic State Group would consider using migrants as a psychological weapon against Europe, and in particular against Italy, should it intervene militarily in Libya. Despite the very large financial resources of Frontex, which has seen its budget increase by twenty, from 6 million to 100 million euros, landings have continued to increase. Triton currently costs €3 million per month. All this, without result because most of Triton's interventions currently consist of helping migrants and bringing them to Italy. In 2014, nearly 200,000 migrants landed on the Italian and Sicilian coasts. Just last weekend, they were about 2,000. Mr Minister, is it necessary to come to their aid to bring them back to Italy rather than to their port of departure? What do you intend to do for the European Union to enter into negotiations with the Libyan authorities with a view to stabilising that country? That would be a solution to the problem. Your colleague in Italian Foreign Affairs, Mr Gentiloni, says that jihadists are using this path to enter Europe. What do you intend to do to contain this threat, knowing that Italy is calling for strong measures with the European Union and with the United Nations? Finally, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, should the European Union continue to be an accomplice to criminal organisations involved in trafficking in human beings? According to the Italian police, a video published in the newspaper Corriere della Sera shows a mafia chief on the phone, saying that he was doing more business with immigration than with drugs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u48	Mr President, Mr Carcaci, I will try to return to your four questions. The Frontex agency actually launched Operation Triton. It is a border control operation which, on certain occasions, can allow rescue operations at sea. It runs 245,000 km2 in the west and south of Italy and Malta. It does not intervene in Libyan territorial waters. I will be very clear: under the rules of the law of the sea and the Triton operational plan, intercepted persons must be landed, either in a port of the host country – in this case Italy – or in a port considered operationally safe. The Frontex Regulation on offshore operations also explicitly recalls the obligation to respect the principle of non-refoulement and the EU acquis in terms of the right of asylum. I refer you to a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg on 23 February 2012, which condemned Italy for having returned a group of Somalis and Eritreans intercepted at sea to Libya. The measure had been found to be contrary to the international obligation of non-refoulement. Then, among the measures to be taken, mediation is indispensable. The Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Bernardino León, is trying to set up a mediation so that a government of national unity can be established. That is the meaning of the conclusions we adopted at the European Foreign Affairs Council in February 2014. I hope that this government of national unity will soon be able to support stronger measures in Libya. You also talked about the European framework. We will return to this at the European Foreign Affairs Council on 16 March. However, the aim is to work first with third countries to prevent people from leaving their region of origin because they do not have protection there. We also want to dismantle trafficking networks. Control will be reinforced by Frontex. I would also like to inform you that the Commission has announced a supplementary budget of EUR 19 million by the end of this year for this operation, an additional EUR 13 million for Italy depending on the influx of migrants and EUR 500 000 for medical aid. Mr President, as I have been asked four questions, I will give a fourth answer, if you will. In order to combat what you call organised crime, it has been asked for months that our intelligence services exchange their information better, that joint investigation teams be developed and that Europol be able to work even more effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u49	Deputy Prime Minister, I take note of your answer. Of course, there are maritime laws that require assistance to any boat in difficulty, but for cases that occur almost daily, Triton by gsm is called for assistance in Libyan inland waters. It is important to know this information!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would like to begin by saying that you may be surprised by a member of the opposition to welcome the very clear statement made by the Minister for Cooperation at the start of your mission in the Congo. I must admit that your remarks were a little more complicated to follow because, after appearing to support the Minister for Cooperation, you seemed to distance yourself. We had the impression of the sketch Karel De Gucht – Louis Michel, one making the Saint Nicholas and the other Father Fouettard. I am in favour of a clear, respectful, constructive but open language, as envisaged in the declaration between Belgium and the Congo signed by the then Prime Minister, Mr. Van Rompuy, and Prime Minister Muzito in the aftermath of the crisis between Belgium and the Congo in 2009. The situation is particularly dramatic. We know the state of poverty, we know the war, we also know the complicity that there may have been and that there are still between generals of FARDC and some FDLR to loot together the resources of eastern Congo. We also know how dangerous the democratic process is in the Congo. I believe that a mission to the Congo was justified if all these elements were addressed clearly and publicly. Minister, have you achieved any results in these areas? This is important for the future of the Congolese population. Is there any progress in this respect? I didn't notice. In particular, in eastern Congo, the Congolese army tells us today that it would have won against the FDLR in an area where there is no FDLR. What is your assessment and your feeling about it? Moreover, will Belgium be involved in the electoral process, which is now known to be compromised? To what extent will Belgium be involved and with what guarantees that this process will succeed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u51	Mr President, Minister, what a cacophony! You are returning from an important shift in relations between Belgium and the Democratic Republic of the Congo and what we hear above all is the polemic and peremptory accents of the Minister for Cooperation to denounce certain excesses in this country, a position diametrically opposed to yours, since you, on the contrary, have noticed progress on the spot. Unfortunately, that is all that can be seen from this mission. Yes, we must strongly condemn the violent repression with several deaths of peaceful demonstrators! Yes, we must dare to see the real infringements of rights in this partner country, such as, for example, the shutdown of the Internet! But no, it cannot be done in any way, at the same time, especially in the tense climate prevailing in the DRC with the electoral deadlines of this country! Diplomacy consists not only of manipulating the language of wood, but also of putting forms. Your mission did not clarify your government's position on the DRC and the enormous and legitimate expectations of its people. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. First of all, I would ask you to give me an official debriefing of the Belgian delegation's visit, I said well of the delegation as a whole in the DRC. How do you position yourself against Minister De Croo's statements? So what is the message given by Belgium, both diplomatically, socio-economically, in terms of human rights and development, to our partner, the DRC? How do you position yourself in relation to the latest events in this country, on the aspects and on the holding of future crucial elections? Can the timetable announced by CENI be kept in your opinion? Have you been able to discuss the financing of these various elections by the international community and, of course, by Belgium? How does Belgium intend to be part of the electoral process to be set up in the DRC? What is the status of our military collaboration with the DRC? Are logistical missions during the elections possible or requested by the Democratic Republic of the Congo?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u52	Minister, you and your colleague De Croo are back from a visit to Congo, a noisy country, where there is a lot of protest. It is a rebellious Congo, which has actually not fully dealt with the 2011 elections. By the way, I must contradict what Hugo Camps wrote in De Morgen, namely that for the N-VA Congo would not exist, here anyway. Our group is following the dossier carefully. We have asked several questions over the past few weeks and months about the political violence in Kinshasa, about the fiercely-contested census, which would only mean a postponement of the elections, about the soloslim of Kabila vis-à-vis the DRC and about the clouded relations with MONUSCO. Our group considers the dossier to be important. Congo is an important donor country. With the existing expertise of our diplomacy, we can play a role if we want to. Mr. Secretary, I have the following questions for you. Firstly, Mr Malu Malu, President of the CENI, has announced the calendar for the elections, which cost 1.14 billion. Do you think there's any catch? Or is it a viable calendar? Secondly, I read in your press release today that you have spoken to both the opposition and civil society. That's very good, but have you spoken to Moise Katumbi? He is not yet a candidate, but he is an important member of the opposition in Katanga, a opposition candidate of Kabila, even though he belongs to the same party. I would like to have an answer from you to my questions, regardless of your impression, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately I will not have time to give you a detailed debriefing of the whole visit. We have conducted a number of meetings together, with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, with the Prime Minister, with the President, with civil society. My colleague from Development Cooperation paid a visit to Belgian Technical Cooperation. For my part, I have met with the Minister of Justice, the Minister of the Interior, the President of the National Assembly, the opposition and, in this context, not in the opposition but in the presidential majority, some governors, including that of Katanga. I also met with people for individual files. All interviews were cordial, but very precise. We have held exactly the same language, with the same line of strength, Mr Dallemagne, which has been constant for three years. In March 2012, many in this assembly wondered whether to go to the Congo. I thank the assembly for agreeing to go there and for holding a very firm speech on three issues. The first concerns the electoral process: respect the Constitution, including the election calendar. There is today a deadline, November 27, 2016. There will be seven direct and indirect elections by then, but the deadline for the presidential election on 27 November must be respected. We will try to accompany this process. First, we need to have a realistic budget, to see if the calculation proposed by the Independent National Electoral Commission is correct, to analyse the funding proposed by the Democratic Republic of the Congo itself. Then, together with our international partners, we will see how to complete this funding. Everyone is part of this calendar: the presidential majority, the National Assembly, the Union for Democracy and Social Progress (UDPS), the Union for the Congolese Nation (UNC), the Mouvement de libération du Congo (MLC), and civil society. We've met more than a dozen associations, all of them want to participate. The message remains clear, namely respect for the Constitution. And the progress that has been made is that there is now a timetable. Secondly, Mr Luyckx has asked about the relationship with the various partners in relation to the east of Congo. We have been asking for a real action against the armed groups for three years. At first it was mainly against M23, but then against other groups. Thanks to the training given by our army, there are now some good battalions at the Kivu. We work with the Kivu and MONUSCO. So far, success has been achieved on the ground, first and foremost against M23, and now we are in the process of taking action against the FDLR. This was asked for years ago, including by Parliament. We are working on this and I am trying to work well with the Kivu in Congo and with MONUSCO. As we do with cooperation, we will need to strengthen the voluntary reintegration of all combatants leaving these armed groups. There is certainly no question of integrating them into the security forces: there is no question of integrating undisciplined people or of integrating indiscipline, but it is still possible to admit them into other types of activities for reintegration into society. There is still a specific question in this regard. Increasingly, like many international and Congolese actors, we wonder whether, in the Beni region, for example, around the ADF-Nalu, certain terrorist acts would not be more comparable to acts of extremists in other African countries. That is why we will strengthen international cooperation and information exchange in this area. Thirdly, as far as development is concerned, there is progress, but it is impossible to see a growth of almost 10% in Congo without a real positive effect on the whole population. We both said that. There must be more inclusive growth in favour of the whole population. We will do this with development cooperation by including a commitment in different areas. In the field of health care, for example, we will continue to provide professional training. The Minister for Cooperation will be at your disposal in committee if you want more details on his cooperation projects. We are also working on transport infrastructure in the air, port and river areas. Belgium made proposals. As far as development is concerned, it is not enough for it to be inclusive; it must also respect human rights. We specifically requested during each interview that the Congo finally accede to the Rome Statute but also that the National Human Rights Commission be established. Mr President, I will mention only a few things; I will be available to go further in committee. Following the demonstrations in January, the points were clearly put on the table. I spoke to the Minister of the Interior personally. How can we respond to the disproportionate use of force? Probably by better equipping, training and providing non-lethal equipment. For the arrests, I have referred to individual cases – I am not going to take them back here – for which we are asking for release. As far as the Internet is concerned, we reject the blocking as it has taken place and contacts are made with operators to see what possible measures are being taken, as is also the case in the fight against terrorism, to remove images or videos from certain sites. Blocking Internet access is not acceptable. We want results for some investigations; I am thinking in particular of the attempt to assassinate Mr de Merode, who manages Virunga Park. Finally, I have had the opportunity to ask the Minister of Justice to move forward in mutual legal assistance with our country, to move forward for the release of Belgians who are still incarcerated in the Congo today. I hope that there will be progress in this area, as well as in the area of adoption, which is a matter of concern to many colleagues. Our embassy must no longer play the role of crèche and there must be a new law on adoption. Mr President, in conclusion, progress is being made. Much more needs to be done, but we need to put in place vigilant support in the Congo. Why? Look what's happening in the Sahel, from Somalia to the Gulf of Guinea! Look what's going on with Boko Haram in Nigeria or what's going on in Sudan! We've seen operations in Mali or the Central African Republic. We must ensure that Central Africa does not fall into such a stumbling block and that progress can be made on the electoral process, security in the East and development that is much more inclusive and respectful of human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u54	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs, I share with you the view that important progress still needs to be made. On the other hand, I do not understand the observation as to the progress already made. On the contrary, the situation seems to me to have seriously deteriorated in recent weeks. The Americans say so and the UN denounces it through its Special Representative. In these areas, when we look at the situation in the Congo, we must bear in mind the fate of the local people. In fact, tens of thousands of Congolese people have seen their social, security and freedom situation deteriorate dramatically in recent months. All of them really count on the support of Belgium, with one voice, in order to publicly present all their problems, at the international level, in order to generate a clear and clear political dialogue with the Congolese authorities. It is a question of urging the Congo not to remain the last in terms of poverty, the last in terms of governance, the last in terms of public freedoms.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u55	Minister, thank you for your answers. Indeed, such an important move would certainly deserve a longer debriefing in committee. So we will not hesitate to ask. I remain convinced of one thing: Belgium must show diplomacy, but also firmness on the issues of rights and good governance. However, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, like any other State, has the right to be treated with respect. Such an attitude implies respect for forms, but above all a clear and transparent message, both to condemn what is not working and to support and encourage this country. I therefore call on this government to ensure that our diplomatic action, this famous "3D strategy" that you are developing, is coherent and responds to the questions and expectations of the Congolese themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I note from your drive that Congo exists not only for the N-VA, but also for this government. I am pleased that you have been in contact with the person concerned, Mr Moïse Katumbi. Belgium has played an important role with the support of the third battalion and has also strengthened the military apparatus. Nevertheless, I would have much preferred to have seen continued cooperation with MONUSCO. That would have been better and it is regrettable that these relations have been clouded. That's what keeps bothering me. Finally, and this remains, of course, the most important conclusion of next year, Congo is on its way to the ultimate elections, the elections of the last chance. I hold my heart that, in the short run that we have left to organise this election in such a gigantic country with nearly 70 million inhabitants, something would go wrong. I appeal to the vigilance of this government and to you and your colleague to monitor developments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u57	Mr President, Minister, as you know, for the past two years, the governments of the euro area have had to submit their draft budgets to the European Commission before they are adopted by the national parliaments. In the case of France, Italy and Belgium, the Commission suspended its decision last November and announced that it would take it definitively in March this year. Yesterday we learned that it had validated the Belgian budget, with the result that we are escaping the excessive deficit procedure. Our structural efforts to reduce the deficit are likely to have played a positive role in this decision. In Commissioner Moscovici's own words, the proposals for structural reform were found to be convincing and the exchanges with the Belgian Government were of very good quality. Of course, we can only welcome this decision, which represents a strong and positive signal in favour of the economic, social and budgetary programme advocated by our Government, but also in respect of the necessary reforms that you have begun, particularly in terms of debt reduction. Minister, can you respond to this opinion? In particular, will it have consequences for the next budgetary control?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, it is sometimes surprising in this kind of procedure that when the European Commission comes in November or December to evaluate us, it attracts all the cameras, all the analyses and all the criticisms, but when the bulletin is made public it is of little interest. I would like to say this because, in a few months, we have been able – thanks to the majority and the government as a whole, but sometimes also thanks to the constructive criticisms of the opposition – to file additional notes almost every fortnight. These have convinced the European Commission to place us, Mrs Wilmès, in what I would call the second out of six European sub-pelotons. This is not so bad, because it disconnects us, in a positive sense, from certain countries such as France. This puts us at the rank of the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Finland and Sweden. When I heard some analysts in November and December, it wasn't won. More pragmatically this time, we must remain very cautiously optimistic. We are on the eve of a serious budgetary conclave. We must remain serious and, at the risk of using pleonasm, I would say that we must be clear, clear and precise and that we must not let go of the bridle. Of course, the guideline must be kept. As the Prime Minister said yesterday, by means of a press release, it is encouraging for the government and the country, as the structural measures implemented – on which we rely essentially – are at work. Europe calls on us to step up these structural measures. On the one hand, Europe points our finger at us in November or December by telling us to be careful and, on the other hand, Europe asks us to go further in our reforms. This big gap we will do in the right sense of the word, within the framework of the conclave. I am at your disposal in committee to answer all questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u59	Minister, thank you for your answer. I begin by telling you that I share – I am not the only one – your analysis of the random or moving interest of some in the opinion of the European Commission, depending on whether it is positive or more critical. Having said that, in addition to this "good bulletin" issued by the European Commission, I am pleased to hear that this budgetary conclave will be understood bearing in mind our objectives, because these are in line with our European commitments, and also our desire to revive the economy and to make our budgetary situation more sustainable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u60	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for many years we have been led to believe that supplementary pensions are essential if we are to have a strong pension. Since this week, that fairy tale has been smashed. For everyone who is affiliated to that supplementary pension, there is a return guarantee of 3.25 % at the end of the journey, but now the sector says that it wants to blow up that guarantee and that it can only commit itself to a return of 0.4%. Those are, of course, peanuts. The first long-term savings account generates much more money. So we can ask ourselves which employee today will be willing to give up part of his monthly wage if he gets so little return. This is an assault on millions of people's pensions. It is an attack on our pensions, because the existing contracts would also be revised. That is breach of contract and unacceptable as far as we are concerned. We may ask ourselves whether the situation for insurers is really that dramatic. After all, this is not a new question. It's been around for four to five years and those insurers, including AXA and Allianz, still exist. Moreover, we need to look at the returns that they can predict to their shareholders. In Europe, they were able to give their shareholders a return of 6.97 %. On the one hand, for people who work and for pensioners, a return of 3.25 % is apparently too much, but for investors and wealthy shareholders a return of almost 7% is not the least problem. That doesn't make any sense. That is unacceptable. The traditional parties do have butter on their heads. The supplementary pension was proposed as a lifeboat. If that is entirely dependent on erratic stock market results, this lifeboat is a leak and we are putting the future, old age on the line. It can't be. A strong legal pension offers the best guarantees. Mr Minister, are you prepared to resist this question from the insurers with the government and do you still want to go fully for financial security for pensioners and workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we are indeed faced with a very brutal proposal here. This is the first time I've questioned you, Minister. I remember that in the past we have discussed supplementary pensions repeatedly in the Committee on Social Affairs. When the WAP, the Vandenbroucke Act, came into force in 2003, there was already a great debate on the question of what guarantee should be offered, what percentage should be registered in the law, Mr De Vriendt. A minister can't just change that. I would just like to say what our motivation for these supplementary pensions was. Firstly, to respond to the erosion of the protection of the pension system. Secondly, to find a method of moving to a deferred wage to reduce wage pressure in negotiations and to convince trade unions and employers to invest in the future or immediately. Thirdly, to put things in order in the proliferation of different systems. Minister, I think I can say that this is a success story to date, including in the European context. We have evolved from one quarter to three quarters of employees with supplementary pensions. What always comes back is an attack by the sector on the percentage of guaranteed return. You may know better than I do that pension systems stand or fall with confidence in the future, Minister. Will the government address the suggestion of the insurance sector this time? They do so every so many years, now again, perhaps lured by the phrase from the coalition agreement. Will the government respond to the industry's call to reduce that percentage? I hope not. I read in the paper that you will go to the NAR with a proposal. What is the proposal? I hope you will also involve the Minister for Labour, who is responsible for social dialogue. If this is to be dealt with, social dialogue will be called into question directly and in a structural manner. I would have liked an answer to these two questions, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u62	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the insurers' question about the guaranteed return on supplementary pensions does not surprise anyone. The interest groups, however, have only told half the truth. That is the way it is with the opposition, she has told the other half of the truth. The law on long-term return requires the percentages we know. Dear Minister Vandenbroucke, who introduced that law at the time, himself today acknowledges that it was not the best idea. He's more than right, because it was even a very bad idea. In the long term, imposing conditions would mean irresponsible behavior. With the current legislation, we find ourselves in a roulette system. The question is who will pay the price. If inflation is low, the insurers will be cornered; that is what they are saying today. With the same legislation, but with high inflation, we should actually talk about holding-up workers, because they get a lower return than market interest rates. Now it is the insurers who are coming out of the bus because they are getting beaten up, but in this case the public interest must prevail. We are not here to be an interest group. Back in the day, let's not forget this, they were on the side of the ringing cash register. The government agreement quite rightly provides for the idea of variable interest rates. The reactions to the insurers' proposal, as they have been given over the past few days, do not, strangely enough, distinguish at all between nominal interest rates and real purchasing power. We wanted to create the false illusion that in the long term we can guarantee people's purchasing power with a blind, rigid system. Minister, the question is acute and very important: what will the government do to ensure that the general interest can be guaranteed in this respect, both by insurers, employers and employees?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u63	Mr President, Minister, the problem is clear. Indeed, it is not the first time that the insurance sector has asked for the return of 3,25 % or 3,75 % because it would not be sustainable for the sector and, in the case of extension, for the employers who offer this guarantee to their employees. What is important to us is that everyone here has always said that the first pillar, the statutory pension, must guarantee sufficient guarantees that those who retire enjoy a good income and that the supplementary pension is an additional income which must also be valuable, can offer the necessary differentiation and thus increase the replacement ratio. It is precisely thanks to the trust created by the law on supplementary pensions, that today 70% of people are covered by supplementary insurance or group insurance, and that there are employers' commitments in this area. It's that certainty that makes people sign up. Both in the past and today, the call is made for us not to rush ahead or to respond to the demand for a reduction in efficiency. Why? I hear and see that, in addition to the mandatory yield in some sectors, there is also a guarantee of profit participation in order to obtain the guaranteed interest rate. We need to find out what happens to the higher returns that have been achieved in the past. These are not short-term contracts, they are long-term contracts. Last year, we amended the legislation, so that the time of retirement is defined differently, so that the longer-term impact can also be taken into account. I think it is important that we take this element with us when we look at whether we are actually addressing this question and in what way. What is particularly important, Minister, is that all those who currently have an ongoing contract should continue to receive the guarantees that are now in force. I come to my questions, Minister. Firstly, how will you deal with this, both in the NAR and in the National Pension Commission which will be set up and will deal with the supplementary pension? Secondly, what does this mean for the current agreements?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u64	Mr President, I would like to thank Members of Parliament for their interesting questions. I would stress once again that it is my firm will to find a solution quickly to the guaranteed return in the context of supplementary pensions. The constant decline in the interest rates of the OLOS in recent years is a fact. Without calling into question the current guarantee of acquired rights and accumulated reserves, I would like the social partners to continue their discussions in order to obtain the necessary guarantees for the new premiums. For this reason, I sent a letter to the National Labour Council on 24 February asking for a solution to be found before the end of June 2015. Failure to respond could jeopardise our system of supplementary pensions, while it is the government's will to generalise and democratize the system. Employers must continue to offer supplementary pensions. At the same time, the return must remain attractive to workers. In the absence of a unanimous opinion from the social partners, I have already indicated that I will accept my responsibility in this respect. However, I would first like to give all the opportunities to the social partners. I come to Mrs Becq's specific question. It is the National Labour Council and not the Pension Committee, which is competent to complete the social dialogue on the guaranteed return.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u65	Minister, I listened very carefully to your reply. I have also listened carefully to the speeches made by the members of the N-VA and CD&V. I have not heard from any of them a clear rejection of the insurance industry's demand for the guarantee of return. I have not heard from them a clear rejection of the totally unacceptable demand for the market to play effectively and our pensions to depend on stock exchange results. That's unfortunate. Minister, you refer to the social dialogue. In this matter, however, we are asking a government which, as in recent years, stresses that it does not touch the guarantee of return on supplementary pensions, just because many people already have such a supplementary pension and because the government wants to extend that supplementary pension to other categories. We have already experienced a erosion of the statutory pension under the current government. We are now also seeing a second pillar of retirement. What pension house will be left tomorrow? We ask for a pension system that does not depend on the stock exchange, but provides financial security for the citizens. In the case in question, a government is needed that clearly knocks the fist on the table and warns the insurance sector:no paseran, njet, njet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, although I am very concerned. It worries me very much because you report a few things. After all, you note that the dossier is for the NAR and the social dialogue and not for the Pension Committee. Anyone who follows the dossier is well aware that pension committees will always insist on a guaranteed minimum return, in order to give confidence to those who have to finance the pension. That has always been the attitude of the pension committees in the past. That would be the case now. I hear here for variable feet and interest pleading according to the profits made. That is a first point of concern. Minister, a second point is that you will consult the NAR before the end of June 2015. You add that if the NAR is divided on the issue, you will take responsibility. I'm sure it is. However, I would like to raise a third point, which is mainly addressed to Mrs Becq. Mrs Becq, you really need to read the law on supplementary pensions or WAP. That law states that there is a minimum return of 3,25 %, from which the Minister may depart by royal decree. So I would be really worried about the answer from the Minister for Pensions. You know how crucial the issue is for social dialogue. I would therefore urge Mr Peeters to act together with the Minister for Pensions, so that next time he does not have to come here and explain what he did that afternoon and admit that he was wrong, that he did not see it and that he misjudged it. Here we are playing with the social dialogue of the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u67	Mr President, I would once again like to stress the need for realistic formulas which have not been written by the insurers' study services. I would ask the opposition to place the concept of return and the percentages in a proper context: 3.25 % at different inflation rates makes a world of difference. That is why we would much rather use purchasing power than nominal interest rates, which offer a false form of guarantee. In times of high inflation, they can even lead to the insured to see their stakes fall rather than increase. The idea of the variable approach is therefore very much in favour of maintaining purchasing power.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u68	Minister, if we want supplementary pensions to be used as a supplement to the pension, then we must also guarantee the profitability with certainty. I believe that legal certainty is just as important as the current demand for fixed profitability. Anyone who invests in a supplementary pension today or is covered by ongoing commitments must be able to count on the continuation of ongoing commitments. It is certainly not our intention to simply respond to the questions of the insurance companies. Moreover, it is far from certain that the funds go along with this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u69	Mr President, Minister, over the last few days the defence dossier has been brought back to light, even if only because some people from the federal administration within NATO have made us a very poor student in this international club. I'm not a fervent atlantist anymore, which I used to be. Peter De Roover and I used to have a club at Antwerp University called Ad Valvas. That was a NATO student club. Although I am beginning to nuance the principles of this club today, I am right to say that those who criticize our defence policy are right. It seems that we are no longer able to live up to the level of ambition that we are cherishing and cherishing. You have a problem with that, Minister, and that problem is becoming chronic. You've been Minister of Defense for eight months. (...): Four months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u70	So we're gonna halve it. You've been Secretary of Defense for four months now. There's a lot of catching up to do. You have an ambition level that we want to cherish with you. Our side of the opposition wants to follow you, but you cannot join, because you are not being followed by your coalition partners; they do not give you the financial resources needed for your defence policy. Mr Minister, say clearly after four months whether you will achieve your level of ambition. How much do you need? Are you or are you not covered by your coalition partners? If not, will you draw the political conclusions to be drawn from them?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u71	Mr President, Mr Penris, thank you for your question. As you know, yesterday, in the light of the preparations for my strategic plan for the future of defence, I organised a colloquium on the future of defence. Fourteen experts agreed that we are not good students of NATO, not to say we are the worst pupil of NATO. I believe that it is my duty to inform you of this and to give an accurate picture of the situation. Indeed, for the next few years, we are moving towards a structural saving of 400 million by 2019. That is a decision of this government, which has chosen to finally balance our budget by 2018. However, I am currently working hard on a strategic plan which I will present to the government the broad lines on Easter. This plan will give a first look at the necessities for the future. Today, however, it is too early to go into more detail. Actually, you asked me to claim part of the commission. I want to confirm again that I claim a piece of the commission. I believe that this is what we need in order to implement the structural measures that we need in order to remain within our allocated budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u72	Minister, you are honest and you say you are short of money. I am now looking straight into the eyes of the Minister of Finance and I hope that he will clear budgets in order to fulfil the tasks you aspire to. After all, this is not just about something, it is about our defence, about our national security. I believe that we must continue to be able to invest in this. Mr. Secretary, you asked for time credits for yourself until after Easter. I hope you will come back to us honestly after Easter to tell us whether or not you made it. If you didn't make it, take the consequences out of there and give your ministerial chair to someone who can do it with less.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u73	Mr President, Minister, the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) has been holding a session in Paris since 22 February. On this occasion, it is expected to present the Mutual Evaluation Report on Combating Money Laundering and Countering the Financing of Terrorism. A few days ago, the Secretary of State for the Fight against Tax Fraud announced that this document would be made public on 26 February, that is to say today. The last evaluation of this type, if I am not mistaken, dates back to June 2005. It has since been the subject of several biennial updates in 2007, 2009 and 2011. The press has already revealed some conclusions. Even if they are relatively expected, they remain objectively unflattering for our country. It's an understatement. Belgium would only comply with eleven of the forty recommendations, which is objectively very few. Worse, the current government has suggested that it may reconsider certain measures. I am referring here to the project, which is not too clear whether it is confirmed or not, to raise the ceiling for cash payments to EUR 7,500. Minister, have you read the FATF report? Even if it was only officially released today, perhaps you have received some indiscretion. Do you consider the fifteen-point plan of the Secretary of State, who, to my knowledge, has not been approved by the government, to be the only response to the fight against money laundering? If not, what additional measures do you intend to take so that Belgium can comply with all FATF recommendations? Finally, very concretely, will you, yes or no, change the ceiling for cash payments?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u74	Mr President, Mr Dispa, regarding your question on the Financial Action Task Force and its report, the official evaluation report of Belgium by the FATF will be discussed at the plenary meeting in Paris today. The Minister of Justice Koen Geens is present at this meeting, assisted by a Belgian delegation composed of representatives of the public and private sectors. After the publication of the final report of the evaluation of Belgium by the FATF, which will take a few more weeks, the Government will take the measures it considers necessary to respond to the specific conclusions of this report. You mentioned the official publication of this report, but what was disseminated in the press was only a project. As regards the ceiling for cash payments, notwithstanding any FATF conclusions on this subject, this specific issue will be addressed in the fourth anti-money laundering directive which is currently under discussion in European bodies, including the European Parliament. When this directive is finally adopted, Belgium will have to transpose it. The question you are asking will then receive a final answer during the discussion of the transposition bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u75	Mr Minister, as far as the ceiling for cash transactions is concerned, I understand that it is necessary to be included in the European directive in preparation. However, the insecurity that was fueled by the government itself creates doubt and even suspicion about the government's intentions on these sensitive issues. You could now be more categorical and exclude, unless Europe imposed a different attitude on us, this hypothesis of a recovery that would certainly not go in the right direction. More generally, I would like, like you no doubt, to be concerned about the image of our country vis-à-vis external partners, particularly foreign partners. The FATF's negative assessment serves us; we will see what its final tone will be. The government's ambitions to combat financial crime are modest, as are the budgets allocated to the fight against fraud. The College of Courts and Courts has estimated the private resources of the Department of Justice at EUR 400 million. As time passes, we can see that the negative effects of these linear blind cuts penalize the state as well as the collection of taxes, and ultimately favour fraudsters. These blind cuts should not be extended further. For us, it is essential that all the links in the chain be strengthened in the fight against economic and financial crime.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, with the agreement of the vast majority of the groups and under Rule 125 of the Rules of Procedure, we are entering the topical and urgent debate. I would remind you of the Rules of Procedure. There are two questioners who are entitled to a question and a reply. Each political group may agree with the questions or after the replies by any speaker who wishes to do so. I shall first give the floor to Mr Van Rompuy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u77	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my question concerns the famous letter of conversion, which turns out to be not a letter of conversion but an internal instruction on the assessment of spontaneous reports of taxpayers after the last regularisation round. Yesterday, the BBI explained that valuation instruction. A representative of the BBI was present on the committee at the request of the Minister. Yesterday I learned through the RTBF and today I read in the newspapers that it is still a new regularization round, so there is a new regularisation after 2013 and that the instruction of the BBI would be illegal, illégale. In my view, the fact that the BBI would act in breach of the statutory tax provisions is such a strong accusation that, as chairman of the Finance Committee, I think it is important that these accusations are answered and commented on in Parliament. Yesterday, the Minister clearly outlined the history of the BBI's instruction. This is a uniform approach to spontaneous reporting, with the aim of combating tax shopping. That is what has happened, as the BBI has said, in consultation and with the agreement of all regional executives. The instruction does not in any way constitute a criminal exemption. So it has nothing to do with tax amnesty. Mr Philipsen of the BBI said yesterday that the BBI is taxing and not regularizing. The BBI has expressly stated that normal rates are being assessed, that the historical developments of the file are being taken into account and that proportionality is being taken into account. The BBI goes back to the oldest year of the unexpired period, in particular the 2009 attack year. The BBI has also made it clear that if a una has to be through-consultation with the public prosecutor, this will happen. At the explicit request of the BBI, consultations may be held with the Attorney's Office. The parquet can thus continue to play its role in full authority. We've heard from the BBI, but we haven't had a chance to hear from the minister. With my question, I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to answer those serious accusations. Mr Vanvelthoven, you say that the most important tax body, the BBI, operates in illegality. I think that Parliament should be clear about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u78	Mr Van Rompuy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u79	That is why I am asking the Minister about these accusations, so that there can be an end to the deception of public opinion in that file.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u80	Mr Van Rompuy, I must interrupt you. I give the floor to Mr Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u81	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, there was first of all the episode with a view to finally obtaining this document. You didn't want to give it to us. We don't know why. Finally, we have it. Apparently, you did not want potential fraudsters and their lawyers to be aware of the contents of this document. What was said here in plenary three weeks ago? I quote the full report. You said, "I don't want to communicate so I don't want to encourage this tax regularization." Then I said to you, "Do you seriously think what you're saying, minister? It is clear that fraudsters and their lawyers will soon be aware of the new rules in force. On the other hand, legislators and parliamentarians who must control the government do not have the right to be informed of these rules. It's weird to say the least!" That's what I was telling you three weeks ago, and, minister, that's what happened, given that tax sites have communicated the content of this measure. On the bottom, it is even more challenging. Mr Van Rompuy, we are indeed totally illegal. On the one hand, because this instruction says "without criminal prosecution". Somewhere, ISI officials are prevented from forwarding important fraud files to the Public Prosecutor's Office. On the other hand, there is the question of penalties. With regard to penalties, the document mentions "at least 20% tax increase". What does the law say? The law is very clear, except that it provides for two different things. The Income Tax Code and its implementing regulations provide for 50 per cent increase in cases of fraud. The 2003 law of the first DLU states that, at the end of this DLU, an increase of 100% must be applied. Then there was the DLU bis and the DLU ter. And today, 100% increase is applicable. Minister, how do you justify this illegality?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u82	Mr Vanvelthoven, you have one moment to speak. That is now or after the replies of the two questioners. Would you like to speak after the replies? The system is as follows: you speak either now or after the replies of Mr Van Hees and Mr Van Rompuy. So that's after the minister. Would you like to speak for the Minister? In that case, you will now have the floor. Mr. Laaouej wants to intervene but after the replies. Mr Vanvelthoven has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u83	Mr President, Minister, Mr President of the Finance Commission, I really do not understand why you had to wait until this morning to realise what was explained in committee yesterday. Yesterday, the committee set out in a very clear way why the instruction in question is contrary to the law. The presentation was very clear. That is not an accusation, but simply a finding. What's it about today? Today it is about the fact that Parliament, which is the legislative power, determines whether and how big the taxes are. In 2003, Parliament expressly stated that, following the regularisations that followed, those who had not made use of the regularisation option would face a tax increase of 100%. That's done and clear. There is now the internal instruction, under the political responsibility of the Minister of Justice. That instruction states that a tax increase of 20 % or 50 % is applied according to income. The law that was passed here at the time refers to at least 100 %. The instruction deviates from that rule. The only conclusion, therefore, is that that instruction is contrary to what has been determined here by the legislator. We have noted nothing more than that, and that is a finding. I am surprised that you have to wait until the issue arrives in the newspaper to put another question to the Minister, who could have replied yesterday. Secondly, the Minister has stated here in Parliament that there will be no regularisation of old-age capital. That is what he said here in Parliament. I read in the newspaper that the head of the BBI in Ghent, Charles Anthonissen, states that statute of limitations can be regularized. What do we see in the instruction in question? You pointed it out yourself just now. It's a seven-year statute of limitations. That's not just my lecture. It is the lecture that is now also supported by the fiscal literature, Fiscal News. For movable, immovable and miscellaneous income, the instruction is based on the seven-year tax limitation period. However, the Minister here in the Chamber has declared the opposite. Can we worry about that? Yes, we have to worry about that. Mr Van Rompuy, you say that this is all a game and that we must accept the instruction as it is when it goes against the law. I find that unheard of. Minister, do you agree with the reading confirmed yesterday by Mr Philipsen that this instruction goes against the law of a tax increase of 100%?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Belgium is actually addicted to fiscal regulation. It started with EBA in 2004. There was then a second and a third EBA. There's been a permanent regularization. We are now in spontaneous regularization. That's a little peculiar to our fraud culture. I read yesterday's report from the committee that I was unable to attend, particularly the debate on tariffs. I think that there is not only a problem with the tariffs in the instruction today, but also that we have to ask ourselves what exactly happened between the end of the third regularisation round on 1 January 2014 and the start of those new instructions. I heard that four hundred files came in after the instruction. What happened before? How many files did they get in? What rates were they taxed at? Apparently, there was a disparate application. That's why we needed an instruction. How many files are we talking about? What are the amounts involved? Were any files forwarded to the parquets? I think it is important that we clarify the interim period, that grey zone for the instruction. Then there is also the discussion about tariffs which are clearly lower than is laid down in the law. In any case, it must be clear that when people make a report, the law must be strictly observed. There can be absolutely no question of fiscal agents in this area. Minister, it is also important to ask whether the BBI can handle it all. According to you, four hundred files have come in. Then there are the files of SwissLeaks and LuxLeaks and files that are still to come. It's important that the BBI is able and well staffed to complete all those files. If a number of cases are prosecuted, they will also end up with the public prosecutors. There too, there must be sufficient capacity to bring these files to a successful conclusion. Otherwise, these files will be time-barred, the reasonable deadlines will expire and nothing will have to be paid. Minister, how are you going to deal with these problems in order to ensure that the administration and justice can handle them?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make two points in an introduction. It is true that there are still taxable persons with untaxed income. The IRS can't help but value. Up to now, different approaches have been adopted, leading to tax shopping. This internal instruction will put an end to that. There is now a uniform approach. I'll give you a second introductory remark. I did not initially want to release this internal instruction for the simple reason that I did not want to cause temptation or entrapment. In other words, under no circumstances could there be any indication of organized regularization. In substance, there are three points, namely statute of limitations, tax increases and legal proceedings. I'll start with the statute of limitations. This instruction does not deal with prescribed capital, but with unsolicited returns issued by a taxpayer in respect of income that the taxpayer has forgotten to report for the earliest possible year and any subsequent years of the non-prescribed period. The unsolicited declaration, as far as the content and scope are concerned, is the responsibility of the taxpayer concerned, under which the tax authorities are obliged to impose the tax. As soon as the controller finds that there is a presumption of laundering, for example, he must report it immediately to the anti-money laundering cell. Only the Public Prosecutor's Office may decide to institute proceedings against taxpayers who have committed tax and other offences that are not yet criminally prescribed. As regards the tax increases, the distinction in tax increases is justified by the different situations of the files concerned, such as their history, size and complexity. As in the relevant tables of the implementing acts of the tax codes, the BBI follows the philosophy of progressiveness according to the circumstances. Any difference in sanctioning is also explained by the level of the tax rate, depending on the nature of the income in question moving, diverse or professional. In his contribution in De Morgen today, Professor Maus emphasizes that it is fair and logical that there is a distinction as to whether or not someone spontaneously goes to the tax administration. Furthermore, the instruction must also be read correctly. Nowhere does it say that 20% of professional income and VAT is the rate, but at least 20%. In certain cases, it may be that the unpaid income does not relate to the totality of the last seven years, but is limited, for example, to two or three years. As regards the 100% of the first EBA Act, it can be argued, on the one hand, that the present instruction of the BBI relates only to the oldest possible year and all subsequent years of the non-annuity period. On the other hand, here too, we are faced with the rule of proportionality. It follows from the EBA Act of 31 December 2003 that the tax increase of 100% can only apply to funds held or held before 1 June 2003 and thus to taxable income collected before 1 June 2003. Revenues from 1 June 2003 are not covered by that penalty clause of the EBA Act. This also resulted very clearly from the provisions of the circular of 1 April 2010 on the one-off liberating declaration. As the instruction does not target tax-deficient capital, the revenue of 2008, tax year 2009 is the oldest income eligible for a late declaration under the discussed internal instruction. Finally, the criminal law approach. The existing rules have not been changed in any way. It is impossible to settle any legal proceedings by means of a financial transaction without consultation with the prosecutor's office. The ISI's internal investigation simply refers to the existing una via procedure for consultation with the King's prosecutor. Una consultation with the Public Prosecutor's Office may take place in particular in the following cases: if the taxpayer so requests, for example with a view to an amicable transaction, or if the ISI considers it necessary. In this case, it will be decided, on the basis of the una via concertation conducted by the Public Prosecutor's Office, whether to apply a tax fine or to initiate criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u86	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You've given us some clarity. Yesterday, we heard from the BBI about this. You clearly explained your interpretation of what the BBI put forward yesterday in relation to the criminal law approach, in relation to the limitation period and also in relation to the rates, in which progressive modulation is possible according to the nature of the income. In short, one has to approach this problem in a very nuanced way and one cannot get rid of it by saying that this is a new tax regularization whereby one pays less than 100 % and so on. I don't think that's possible. This is a very technical matter, and I hope that Parliament will not go on suspecting the BBI, as if it were somehow doing tax regularisation and as if fraud in the BBI would not be combated as much as possible. Mr Vanvelthoven, when the socialists and the Greens go on tour, that is dangerous demagogy, as if the BBI were trying to regularize fraud under pressure from the government. This is unacceptable! Mrs. Temmerman, last week you asked to see the instruction. Well, that instruction has now been brought to Parliament and discussed in committee. The Minister has given very clear answers on all points. The opposition wants to make this a major electoral issue. Not with the credibility of our tax system in Belgium!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u87	Minister, you have not been very clear, but I will try to translate your remarks. You say you violate the law, you say you agree that the service for which you are responsible violates the law. You rape her because it's in philosophy or because Professor Maus thinks it's justified. Don't fall behind Professor Maus! Accept to say we're breaking the law! The law makes it clear that increases are foreseen and that in case of fraud, 50% is minimum. Here, we apply from 20 per cent, so we clearly violate the law. You also tell us that the 2003 law imposing a 100% increase is no longer applicable because it is capital before 2003. This is incorrect because this rate of 100 per cent of the 2003 Act is referred to in the 2013 Act. That is always the case, Minister! There, too, we violate the law! With regard to the transfer of the files to the Public Prosecutor's Office, the investigation is clear. It says: "If requested by the taxpayer, a confirmation of the prosecutor's office of treatment by administrative means is without criminal prosecution." On these three points, you give justifications that are not. If we read through the lines of your speech, you say we're violating the law and it's your responsibility!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u88	Mr President, it must be noted that the Minister of Finance has decided to cover the illegality of the investigation of his tax administration. I do not blame the tax administration; it has understood the government's attitude in the fight against fraud and financial crime, i.e. a blurring of the norm, if not a certain laxity. I will not recall here the episode of the secret commissions. Minister, however, you will allow us, as parliamentarians, to tell you that what you are covering is a real scandal! When the law is clear, the job of the administration is to apply it. It is not to anticipate, in the name of I do not know what principle of proportionality, the possible attitude of the judiciary. This is how our institutions work: we vote on tax laws because the Constitution makes them our prerogative and the administration enforces the law! You are going to tell me that for income tax, fines are fixed in a royal decree, which is not entirely the law. This royal decree says that in case of fraud, the rate is 50 per cent, for the second offence is 100 per cent and for the third offence 200 per cent. In the instruction we are talking about, we are talking about a discount of up to 20%. With regard to VAT, for which we are dealing with taxable persons, who are tax collectors on behalf of the State, because they are not the ones who support it, the law itself is clear. She says the fine is double the tax evaded. The law! And your administration also allows you to apply a discount. But in what capacity? In the name of what power? It is Parliament's responsibility to vote on taxes. You therefore decide to cover the tax administration and, therefore, to cover an illegality and a violation of the Constitution. This is particularly serious and symptomatic of your government's attitude in the fight against tax fraud and financial crime!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u89	Mr President, I do not want to stir up controversy and I will not go back to the complaints that have already been made to the government about the lack of political will that was reflected in the note produced by the Secretary of State for the Fight against Tax Fraud, the lack of ambition in terms of revenue targets linked to the fight against tax fraud or the lack of resources available to the administrative services. Having said that, I have the impression that today you are adding a layer of it and that the government's and the majority's reversal of the publicity to be given or not to this circular is at last evidence of a backwards approach, which is that of the government in the area of tax evasion. I remember that, two or three weeks ago, you tried to convince us that we could not advertise this instruction. Now, under the pressure of the media, you table it on the committee table and then on the plenary. Nor do I forget that at the same time, a majority leader claimed that the fight against tax fraud resulted in a 10% increase in the ISI workforce. You didn't confirm it. But two or three days later, in committee, you had the honesty to give us figures in response to a question from our colleague, Mr Crusnière. The number of ISI staff increased from over 600 to 560. This was a frontal denial of what was said in this chamber. This incident concerning the investigation we are talking about today is an additional episode. I have the feeling that you've been wrong from the beginning and that we're going to have to take things back in hand. The starting political note should be rewritten. The objectives of revenue related to the fight against tax fraud should be increased; the appropriations available to the Department should be reinstated and, with regard to the circular, it was important to make all the clarity. If you really consider that there is no illegality, that the instructions contained in this text deserve to be confirmed, consolidated and if you want to cut short any controversy, I propose to you: translate the content of this instruction into a royal or ministerial decree and submit it to the Council of State for an opinion! This one will decide. He will tell us whether or not the investigation is in accordance with the legal framework. Without that, you will continue to fuel the suspicion that this government suffers and that undermines its credibility in the fight against tax fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u90	Mr President, I think that my esteemed colleague, Mr Dispa, has just summarized the state of mind, which is that of the opposition, which is to put the Minister's text under suspicion. It is of course always easy to present a text in a Manichean way - the good ones are on the one hand, the bad ones on the other - but it is rather scandalous or even defamatory to declare this text illegal. Have we lost confidence in the tax administration, while some of us are directly former civil servants or even civil servants who are still in charge of this administration. Would they no longer have confidence in this administration? Minister, your circular has the merit of having a common sense, which must be emphasized. What are people doing – and I don't go back to outdated moral acts – who come to make amends and put themselves in order? What do we do with these people if we don't have a text like the one you proposed, which avoids shopping that makes it possible to turn to the nicest controller? Is it not more dreadful for the public to think that we were not aware of the best and that, in the end, there is not a text that allows you to be reassured about the intention of the administration? Minister, as far as we are concerned, we have our peace. Indeed, by reading the whole body of case law which generally characterizes the debates on proportionality, the principle of proportionality is now a far stronger guarantee than the one supported in length and wide in this audience according to which "your norm is illegal". Of course not! The principle of proportionality is a basic element that defines legality, the one that must remain yours, ours. And for that, Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u91	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is quite clear: on 5 February and yesterday, the BBI confirmed that it is an internal instruction with guidelines and that it must apply all the other instructions and circulars it has ever received. It is therefore not an exhaustive list of instructions, which it must follow only. There is only one direction in that direction. That instruction also shows very clearly that it is only about unexpired taxes and revenues, i.e. until the 2008 revenue year. If the revenue is subject to a limitation, reference should be made to the public prosecutor's office. We have also read this interpretation once in Mr Crombez's draft law. With regard to the third round of regularisation or EBA ter, it is very clearly stated that "the tax administration can no longer exercise tax powers in respect of the tax-deprecated capitals." This rule is also applied here: if the income is subject to a limitation, the file will not be dealt with by the BBI, which deals with the non-annuity income. As far as EBA is concerned, taxes before 1 June 2003 are all time-barred and therefore cannot be spontaneously corrected according to the instruction. I heard Mr Laaouej speak about proportionality. Mr Laaouej, if a proportionate administrative fine is of a criminal nature, the court has the power to reduce the fine. A tax increase is so much... You now believe that the tax authorities should not apply the principle of proportionality. You therefore believe that every taxpayer should go to court from now on.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u92	By letter dated 19 February 2015, Mr Jan Jambon, Minister for the Interior, requested that the names of the members of the Chamber be communicated to the National Advisory Committee of the Zones as a delegation from the Federal Parliament. By letter dated 19 February 2015, Mr Jan Jambon, Minister of the Interior, asked for the names of the members of the House who would sit on the delegation of the Federal Parliament to the National Advisory Committee of the Areas. In accordance with Article 15 (2) of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007, the National Advisory Committee is composed of the provincial governors, a representative designated by the Union des Villes et Communes de Wallonie, a representative designated by the Association of Flemish Cities and Municipalities and a delegation of the Federal Parliament. In accordance with Article 15, § 2 of the Law of 15 May 2007 on Civil Security, the National Advisory Committee on Areas is made up of provincial governors, a representative appointed by the Union of Cities and Municipalities of Wallonia, a representative appointed by the Vereniging van Vlaamse Steden en Gemeenten and a delegation from the Federal Parliament. The law does not determine how this delegation of the Federal Parliament is composed. The law does not specify how the delegation of the Federal Parliament is composed. At the plenary session of 27 October 2011, in accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents, it was decided to appoint one member per political group. At the plenary meeting on 27 October 2011, in accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents, it was decided to appoint one member per political group. The task of the National Advisory Committee is to make a proposal to the King on the basis of the opinions of the provincial advisory committees on the territorial demarcation of assisted areas. On the basis of the opinions of the provincial advisory committees, the National Advisory Council for Areas has the task of formulating a proposal to the King on the territorial distribution of relief areas. Following a proposal by the provincial advisory committee of Antwerp and Hainaut concerning a change in the demarcation of the aid zones, the National Advisory Committee will probably meet in the second week of March. Following a proposal by the provincial advisory committee of Antwerp and Hainaut to change the delimitation of relief areas, the National Advisory Committee is expected to meet in the second week of March. By 27 February 2015, the Minister for the Interior shall request the Chamber to provide the name and contact details of the members who will be on the National Advisory Committee as a delegation from the Federal Parliament. The Minister of the Interior therefore asks the House to communicate to him, no later than 27 February 2015, the names and details of the members who will be part of the delegation of the Federal Parliament to the National Advisory Committee. The Conference of Presidents of 25 February 2015 proposes the appointment of one member per political group. The Conference of Presidents on 25 February proposes to appoint one member per political group. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. The following names shall be communicated: The following names are provided: - N-VA: Koen Metsu - PS: Eric Thiébaut - MR: Emmanuel Burton - CD&V: Veerle Heeren - Open Vld: Katja Gabriels - sp.a: Karin Temmerman - Ecolo-Green: Stefaan Van Hecke - cdH: Vanessa Matz Since the number of admissible candidates corresponds to the number of seats to be taken to the political groups which have nominated candidates, it is not necessary to vote in accordance with Rule 157 (6) of the Rules of Procedure. Since the number of eligible candidates corresponds to the number of places to be given to political groups that have nominated candidates, there is no vote in accordance with Rule 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure. I hereby declare elected candidates who have been nominated. Accordingly, I declare the candidates nominated elected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u93	Since the calls for candidates for the mandates of member of the Federal Deontological Commission, published in the Belgian Official Journal of 23 July 2014, 17 October 2014 and 28 November 2014, did not provide sufficient candidates for the categories "former members of the Chamber and/or Senate" and "former officials," a new call for candidates for these categories was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 21 January 2015 in accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 8 January 2015. Since the appeals to candidates for the terms of office of a member of the Federal Ethics Commission, published in the Belgian Monitor of 23 July 2014, 17 October 2014 and 28 November 2014, have given rise to too few applications for the categories "former members of the Chamber and/or the Senate" and "former representatives", a new appeal to candidates for these categories was published in the Belgian Monitor of 21 January 2015, in accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 8 January 2015. The Commission consists of six Dutch-speaking and six French-speaking members, each with one magistrate (or professor), three former members of the Chamber and/or Senate and two former mandaters. A maximum of two thirds of the members may be of the same sex. The Commission consists of six French-speaking members and six Dutch-speaking members, including for each linguistic role, one magistrate (or professor), three former members of the House and/or the Senate and two former representatives. Not more than two thirds of the members are of the same sex. The applications were to be submitted by 20 February 2015. Applications were to be submitted no later than 20 February 2015. Five applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit, but insufficient applications were submitted for the category "Former Managers'. Five applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit but too few applications were submitted for the category "former representatives". In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 February 2015, a fifth call for candidates for the category "former officials" will be published in the Belgian Official Journal. Applications shall be submitted no later than 30 days after publication of the call. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 February 2015, a fifth call for candidates for the category "former representatives" will be published in the Belgian Moniteur. Applications must be submitted no later than 30 days after the publication of the appeal. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u94	At the request of the authors, I propose the legislative proposal (Mrs Dirk Van der Maelen and Mr David Geerts, Mrs Fatma Pehlivan and Mrs Karin Temmerman and Mr Johan Vande Lanotte and Mr Alain Top) with a view to the nuclear release of Belgium, No. 100/1 and the motion for a resolution (Mr Dirk Van der Maelen and Mr Alain Top) on the withdrawal of tactical nuclear weapons from Belgian territory, No. 301/1, to be referred to the Committee on External Relations. At the request of the authors, I propose that you refer the bill to the Committee on External Relations (MM. Dirk Van der Maelen and David Geerts, Fatma Pehlivan and Karin Temmerman and MM. Johan Vande Lanotte and Alain Top) on the denuclearisation of Belgium, No 100/1, and the motion for a resolution (MM. Dirk Van der Maelen and Alain Top) on the withdrawal of tactical nuclear weapons from Belgian territory, No. 301/1. These proposals were previously sent to the United Commissions for External Relations and for the Defence Department. These proposals had previously been referred to the combined External Relations and National Defence Commissions. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u95	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 February 2015, I also propose that you consider: - the motion for a resolution (Doc. Alain Top and Dirk Van der Maelen) on the future of the Belgian army, No. 908/1. Sent to the Defence Committee - the bill (Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mrs Meyrem Almaci) regulating the book price, No. 909/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u96	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 February 2015, I also propose that you take into account - the motion for a resolution (MM. Alain Top and Dirk Van der Maelen) on the future of the Belgian army, No 908/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u97	- the proposal for a law (Ms. Muriel Gerkens and Meyrem Almaci) regulating the price of books, No. 909/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u98	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u99	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on the reform of the Registry duties was submitted (No. 906/1). The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law reforming registry fees was introduced (No. 906/1). I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u100	Mr President, to which committee will this text on registry fees, for which the majority has just adopted the urgency, be referred?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u101	I believe that this will be the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u102	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for Business, Science Policy, Education, the National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture of 10 February 2015. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture on 10 February 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT n°014/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Werner Janssen. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 014/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Werner Janssen. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u103	Mr President, allow me to explain my motion for a recommendation, so that my fellow Members will at least be fully aware of what they will probably vote away if, as always, they blindly follow the instructions to proceed to the order of the day. Colleagues, Flemings are systematically disadvantaged in this Belgium when it comes to the allocation of jobs in the civil service. The Flemings account for approximately 60% of the population in this country, but Belgian arithmetic is different, especially when it comes to completing federal government relations. There a 50/50 rule applies to higher-level relations and even this discriminatory distribution is not respected. The distortions are actually occurring throughout the federal government apparatus, but the most flagrant examples of them are found in the federal scientific institutions. About ten years ago, the Flemish share was 48.3 %, today we are 47.6 %. That's not exactly an improvement. Secretary of State Sleurs has seen a positive trend over the past few months, which she intends to continue. With my motion for a recommendation, we want to encourage the government to take additional measures to this end. On the basis of this slightly positive trend, to which the Secretary of State refers, it will take at least 46 years to reach a fair balance. So, ladies and gentlemen, our motion is no more or less a question of complying with the law, a question of respecting language framework relations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u104	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Everyone has -Does he vote and check his vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 87 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 139 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u105	Mr Wathelet, for the sake of correction, the draft you requested will be sent to the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u106	Mr President, this proposal would at least justify consideration in the Committee on Justice. In fact, the registry rights in question are the rights of assignment in various situations. If I have understood the government's plan correctly, it is a matter of modulating them on the basis of material and revenue. This raises the question of access to justice. That is why I believe it is logical that the text should come to the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u107	Mr President, as you pointed out earlier, I fully agree with your first intuitive reaction: a right of registry is a matter for justice. It would therefore be wiser to bring the proposal into this committee. As Mr Brotcorne pointed out, this is a question of the accessibility of justice, an issue of great importance to this committee. So your first intuition seemed to me to be the right one.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u108	I have corrected myself, Mr Wathelet, by seeing the text signed only by the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u109	This interview was held at the public meeting of the External Relations Commission on 11 February 2015. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on External Relations on 11 February 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 002/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sarah Claerhout and by Mr Peter Luykx and Mr Richard Miller. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 002/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sarah Claerhout and by Messrs. Peter Luykx and Richard Miller. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u110	Mr President, every year the European Commission presents a progress report on all countries negotiating for accession to the European Union. Turkey has been one of them for nine years. Each report again contains serious violations of the principles of the rule of law, human rights, freedom of the press and the rights of women and non-Muslims. I can only say that we are working with two weights and two weights. If there is an attack in Paris where journalists and cartoonists are murdered for their opinion, then there is shock and great marches are being organized, with the Turkish Prime Minister leading the way. However, when it comes to Turkey itself, nowhere in the world are so many journalists and cartoonists in prison as there are no further than concerns. This applies both to this government and to the European Commission. For nine years, the European Commission and the government have apparently been in some kind of permanent state of concern. There is no point in making recommendations for the umpteenth time, once again expressing his concern. We call on this government to act and to do everything it can to finally end the accession talks with Turkey. It's been enough. I was pleased that an oral question by Mrs Capoen was included in my discussion in committee. She rightly concluded, and I quote: 'Through all these criteria and the concerns that arise, there is, of course, the question whether Turkey will ever be able to meet those basic conditions at all.' It is a fair conclusion, but unfortunately it is not acted on consistently, because while she was saying these words, her colleague Peter Luykx was signing the simple motion to move on to the order of the day. Ladies and gentlemen, you now have the opportunity to get rid of this hypocrisy and take action. I'm counting on your support for our motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u111	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Everyone has -Does he vote and check his vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 86 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 139 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u112	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 11 February 2015. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 11 February 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 006/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Koen Metsu. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 006/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koen Metsu. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as early as 2002, the federal government decided that federal top officials should now be bilingual. From that moment on, senior officials and managers must have a functional knowledge of the second language. Only functionally, but still this still remains dead letter because of the obstruction policy of the French-speaking countries. After 12 years, there is still no bilingualism among the top federal officials. The law of 2002 will only enter into force if a royal decree is passed. The French-speaking ministers have so far resisted this. This, of course, led to legal problems. A temporary solution has been created. In the meantime, that temporary measure has been extended eleven times. It is therefore time to find a definitive solution. In response to my interplay, Minister Vandeput said that it was his ambition to achieve this during this reign. In doing so, he gives himself a very large margin of time for issuing a very simple royal decree. After all, the Royal Decree is already in place and all the opinions have been obtained by its predecessors. So there's not much work left. With this motion of recommendation, we ask the government to work on this within a month.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u114	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Everyone has -Does he vote and check his vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 88 Yes No. 49 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 140 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-26-54-plenair-ip032x.u115	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 5 March 2015. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, March 5, 2015. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 5 March 2015, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 5 March 2015 at 2.15 p.m.
