ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our group would have liked today to have a topical debate on the succession of incidents over the last few days. Every half day, there was a new incident. We do not ask this every week, Prime Minister. This week we are asking, but unfortunately that question was refused because the majority does not want to have the full talk, at least not in Parliament but in the media. We have tabled this question this week because your government has both a political and a social problem. This government, ladies and gentlemen, does not do what it has promised and does not do what it needs. Prime Minister, week after week, you reiterated that your government provides unity and stability. What do we see? Anything but stability! A Mexican army! There is disagreement about the social dialogue, there is disagreement about the unemployment benefit, there is disagreement about the tax shift. Even on a fundamental issue such as our security, about which all our countrymen are concerned, and even on a sensitive issue such as the military's deployment, there is a fight, a fight, and another fight! We do not see a government with a prime minister, we see a sum of four political parties already engaged in elections, led by party chairmen. You promised jobs, too. It would be the most important shipyard in this government. That this is the biggest challenge, I absolutely agree. You announced two hundred thousand jobs in this hemisphere. Mr Van Overtveldt then announced eighty thousand of them in this Chamber. And two courses further, in the Committee on Social Affairs, Mr Peeters announced sixty thousand of them. Are you still following, Mr Dewael? The number is decreasing by tens of thousands each time. Yesterday we saw for the first time the total picture of the pluses and the minuses. Prime Minister, when it comes to your commitment to jobs, we are talking about ten thousand additional jobs during this legislature. What will you do to put things right? When is the government going to meet for a weekend to ensure unity and stability? In the light of budgetary control, what will you do to update yesterday's report, which predicts less income and hardly any additional jobs, and to reinvigorate this country? I look forward to your answers and I expect a performance from a prime minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u3	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we saw an incident following an incident, with a cumulation last weekend when a government party asked its supporters and members to act against a decision which she had co-approved. Du jamais vu. That's not the only thing, but I won't list what happened before Christmas. I am just talking about the last week, about the discussions on the tax shift, about unemployment benefits, about tax amnesty, about the social agreement; in short, it does not stop. You may think this is fun for the opposition, that the opposition likes it. Not at all, Prime Minister. You will be surprised, ladies and gentlemen, but we want to debate the substance and we want things to happen. We do want to be able to discuss the number of jobs you promise, after which you have to withdraw that promise every time. We do not want to discuss the use of paracommands on the back of others. We also want to live in a safe society. The fact that your government is refusing to take a decision on this in unity, Prime Minister, is simply scandalous. I have no other words for that. My question is therefore very simple, Prime Minister. When will you finally be a prime minister and when will your government finally rule?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Temmerman, Mr Calvo, thank you for opposing this caricature in order to play only political games without asking questions about the content. Congratulations! I am working with the government to find solutions and I will respond to the content. Is social consultation easy? No, but we work and we try to find solutions. A few days ago, the Group of Ten, although not unanimously, reached an agreement. That is a step in the right direction for social peace. That didn't happen by accident. It is the implementation of points in our coalition agreement: social prosperity and decisions on wages. These are concrete and substantive points to support our economy. Another example is the dialogue with the Länder. He's on the right track. The first meeting of the Consultative Committee took place. The agenda has been set and the first decisions have been taken. We are working on that. Over the last few hours and days we have also received many important encouragements which confirm that we are on the right track with the coalition agreement and the decisions taken and that we are moving in the right direction. An example of this is the 2015 budget. However, I do not receive any questions from the opposition. A few hours ago, the European Commission confirmed the argument that the government had prepared on the basis of fifty pages of substance about our future in the socio-economic field. It is a credible, realistic and serious budget. Those are the facts. Finally, it saddens me that you are unhappy because the government is at work and is achieving results. Those are the commitments of the coalition agreement. Mrs. Temmerman, my final words are for you. You are sad about the division and you speak loudly about unity. Well, the sp.a is a specialist in unity, especially in Antwerp.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u5	Prime Minister, as far as the latter is concerned, a real Prime Minister would not need such a thing. You're asking the opposition to stop playing political games. You do not yet have your own government under control, so I suggest that you do not begin to lecture the opposition. Who should stop playing political games? Mr Beke, Mr Peeters, Mr Dewael. Some members of your government are playing political games. That must be stopped and you must exercise authority on your own team. Every week the same answer is given here. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, let Mr Calvo conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u7	Every week the same answer is given here. The Prime Minister is clearly still in denial. Every week, Prime Minister, you need more movements, adjectives and superlatives to say that this government is connected and is achieving results. We saw the results yesterday. In 2019, the income of citizens in this country will be 1.2 % lower. This country deserves better and can do better, for example with fair taxes. There's barely ten thousand extra jobs coming in, while you predicted two hundred thousand. If you face reality, you will find an ally in the opposition. There are many solutions on the table to put this country on a new footing. I hope that it will get through to you one of the next few days or weeks, Prime Minister, and you will find an ally in us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u8	Mr Prime Minister, I would like to add my words, but your answer is not all that good. If we say that we want this government to rule and that there are no political games on security, you dare to answer that you are working on the Security Committee. Do I need to remind you that last week your own ministers called the Security Committee a talk barracks? Today you have come to tell us that you have done and will do so, but next week you will have to deny it again or you will have to reduce a number of things. Prime Minister, this country expects something else from the government and from the Prime Minister. I hope that you will be able to deliver on this in the future. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u9	Mr Prime Minister, when I hear the opposition, I think of the spell: the dogs bark, the caravan passes by or les chiens aboient et la caravane passe. Colleagues, why do I say that? The European Commission announced today, three hours ago, the results achieved by our country. Growth is picking up, unemployment is falling for the first time since the crisis and the government deficit is falling in line with the commitments made with Europe. All this is done by a government policy that is committed to restoring competitiveness, reducing labour costs, labour and pension reforms and restoring public administration. I therefore find it incomprehensible that the opposition, in particular the Socialists, should come forward today with plans which would destroy growth, which is attracting growth. Higher taxes for larger companies by abolishing the notional income deduction, Mrs Temmerman, people will like to hear it from Volvo Gent. Furthermore, it is a question of taxing people who use their cars to go to work and taxing capital gains for SMEs. Those are the opposition's plans. That is what she is proposing as an alternative. Ladies and gentlemen, the opposition's tax offer is touching. After Green proposed twelve new taxes, the Socialists are now joining. (Loud protest on the benches of the sp.a. Group) I know my remarks hurt. First of all, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you how you respond to the important report of the European Commission. What measures do you intend to take in the coming months to give our economy extra oxygen? Secondly, the social agreement that has been reached will ensure stability in our economy. On what time and how do you intend to implement this important draft agreement, together with the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the OECD report is indeed an important report. It provides an objective diagnosis of the situation in our country. The diagnosis in the report confirms the diagnosis on the basis of which we made a coalition agreement. The facts are that Belgium has some weak and delicate points. Unemployment remains an important problem in Belgium. The pay handicap is also a delicate issue. The pay handicap not only threatens current jobs, but risks that we will not be able to create more jobs. Finally, there is the ageing of our population, which makes pension reform an important objective for the future. I therefore note that the OECD's diagnosis is 100% in line with the government's diagnosis. Since we started four months ago, we've made decisions. Of course, the government will have to take further decisions in the coming months. Our priorities are clear. We are 100% in the process of restoring our socio-economic model. We do this because the best key to sustainably strengthening and guaranteeing our social protection is job protection and job creation. The current government and the majority, including in Parliament, will therefore continue to work hard to implement the commitments made. I would like to add a word about the important social dialogue. We are convinced that social peace is an important condition for the growth of activities in our country. Social rest and social consultation are necessary. We will certainly be holding meetings with the Group of Ten in the next few days to take stock of the situation. We await the views of the official bodies of the trade unions on the draft agreement. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament who are convinced that the priority is not the small fights and small debates, but the clear socio-economic orientations to give our country a good future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u11	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. A case is clear. There's still a lot of work to be done. If we can do this work together, we can bring our country back to the European summit. There is, however, a condition that the government should not be distracted by discussions in the margins and that we should work together on the structural improvement of our country. You can count on our group to implement the coalition agreement at 100%. Nothing more, but nothing less.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as a teacher or a fair student, it is not pleasant to realise that fellow students can break into a school's computer system to manipulate their points. It's not a pleasant prospect when a patient in a hospital realizes that someone can break into the central computer to change your blood type. That could be a deadly outcome. These examples show that our country needs a cybersecurity strategy. We urgently need the establishment of a cybersecurity centre. The government can't do that alone. When we look at the approach in other countries, we see a very strong involvement of the private sector, of specialised companies. This is also very important in the development of the strategy. Not only the involvement of companies is important, but also that of citizens who have a special affinity with computer technology. However, they are afraid that they will be regarded as criminals if they wish to submit something to the government in good faith, if they wish to express their concern, if they wish to show what is possible but certainly not desirable for society. We need those techs. It is therefore a good thing that a hotline is provided within the cyber strategy. We also need the general public, which can show a little hygiene when it comes to Internet security, password protection and encryption of sensitive data. We also need to find out what materials we bring into our country. Is that sufficiently tested and certified, so that no one can look over our shoulder from Asia or anywhere else in the world? In the hacking of Belgacom we see that certain results lead to espionage tools, to software that is also used by American intelligence services. More and more traces also point to the United Kingdom. It can be said that this is the fight against terrorism. We should not really be angry at our partners who also violate our privacy to a large extent. Prime Minister, when will this centre be operational? When does it have a full staff framework? When will our strategy be completed and implemented? What is the reaction of the federal government after the recent analysis of Belgacom's hacking?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing an absolutely unlikely turnaround in this matter, which was already totally rocky but also extremely serious, of the piracy of Belgacom, which is a public society – I remind you. This company has been on the saddle for many months. It is the magazine Der Spiegel which, the first, evoked the massive piracy of hundreds of thousands of private, institutional, government clients of Belgacom, following the revelations of Edward Snowden that we will never thank enough. The latter show that everyone came to make their own market in Belgium, a country which, in terms of espionage, is in a way the "soft window" of computer security. They also point to the fact – there is no longer any doubt about this – that foreign allied powers were spying on our public companies to obtain information on our territory. These include the English intelligence services, which probably also acted for other intelligence services. And, according to L'Écho published today, the former Prime Minister reportedly sent a letter to the military intelligence service questioning his role, his possible collaboration – that was the term used – with the English intelligence services. Prime Minister, it is time to shed light on these elements. What's the status of this Belgacom espionage case? Is it true that it was the British government that spied on this enterprise? For what purpose? It is said that it was a question of responding to terrorist fears. If the information is accurate, what exactly is it? Does this practice still exist? What other intelligence services may be involved? What role did our own military intelligence service play in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, beyond the majority-opposition demarcation lines, there are subjects where we can find ourselves. The issue of cybersecurity is certainly a subject around which we must be able, as calmly as possible, to analyse how it is possible to be more effective than it is today. The countries, including Belgium, have been confronted for some years now with this new form of threat which did not previously exist and which, today, has become very serious. I was struck by the analyses which show quite spectacularly the potential damage from an economic point of view when we have flaws, weaknesses in terms of cybersecurity. Yes, I have already said it and I confirm it. I believe that this government, with the support of Parliament, must have a strong political will for a good strategy in this context. That is our political choice, our political will. What have we done? A few days after having gained the trust of the Chamber, we have published the royal decrees to establish a cyber centre. That is a first point. Immediately afterwards, we started working on the procedures for recruitment of staff. That's what's going on right now. Function profiles have been validated. Finally, the location of the premises, from a logistical point of view, was stopped. The premises are identified. In the coming weeks, we will continue to operationalize this centre. As I speak to you, my office's advisors are working on the subject with all the colleagues concerned to ensure that there is real content in this cybercrime coordination strategy. I confirm that our ambition is to work with the private sector in this context. Contacts have already been made to prepare the work with private operators and to see how best to improve the situation. I repeat, however, that it is not to be imagined that this centre is going to solve everything in this area. The ministers and officials concerned will retain their responsibilities. The departments will keep their duty of vigilance with regard to this. The centre will have a role in coordinating the work that is being carried out, developing a common strategy but will also have to be ready to react when faced with a crisis, including in the field of communication. That's the way we're gonna work. I am prepared to report very regularly to the Members of Parliament and the committee on the progress we are making on this dossier. That's obvious. Mr Dallemagne, you asked me about a point that the press has mentioned, a computer attack on a public company. I ask you to understand the situation I find myself in. Judicial investigations are under way. The separation of powers imposes a certain reservation on me in the public and media expression on the subject. I am sure you understand that these principles must be imposed on the government. Nevertheless, I can tell you that I have undertaken diplomatic contacts on the case you are referring to in order to assure us of cooperation, in particular in the judicial field, as perfect and loyal as possible of our partners and in particular of our partners in the European Union. Perhaps the progress of the judicial case will at some point allow Parliament to come back to this subject, but at present I want us to be able to respect the discretion that is required in the context of an ongoing judicial investigation. I just conclude by telling you that in any case, I'll join you. We must be determined diplomatically, at European level, that there is a perfect mutual loyalty of the various States in this area. Obviously, one can assume, imagine, find that this loyalty is not perfect at the moment. I hope it will be in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u15	Prime Minister, congratulations on your ambitions. It is very innovative that there will be a progress report. That'll be the first time. It is important that Parliament should be able to monitor the work of the highest political level, the Prime Minister's Chancery. We agree that Angela Merkel, the University of Louvain-la-Neuve and the European institutions are not terrorist organisations. However, they are likely to have been spied on by allies, perhaps by an EU Member State. It is important that we give sufficient political follow-up to economic and political espionage. Minister Reynders stated at the time that he would react strongly if there was an ally behind this hacking. Well, it's more than ever time to prepare a response for when the investigation will be completed. Of course, it is not just the hacking of heads of state, it is a crime, it is an identity theft to which many Belgians are subjected every day. The implementation of the cyber strategy will now take place very quickly, the staff will be appointed and the budget will be released, and this will continue to be coordinated by you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u16	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. As far as cybercrime is concerned, I agree with you about your intentions and the steps you have taken. However, let me remind you that I was questioning the previous Prime Minister nine months ago in the same terms, and he was speaking to me the same way you did. We are nine months later and the cybercrime centre is still not in place. The means are still not devolved. We are taking far too much time to implement it. The royal decree was already ready. It has been published since then, I am very pleased with it, but I think that in this area we need to give ourselves much faster, much more considerable means to implement our protection, our cyber protection and no longer depend on foreign powers. I also regret that you have not clarified the role of the General Intelligence and Security Service (GSIS). Information was disclosed by the press. I wish I'd known what you thought of the role of the SGRS. For me, he helped clarify what this Belgacom case was. But you didn't say anything about it, even though it would have been important. Finally, with regard to Great Britain and other countries that you have not appointed, I regret that, in relation to governments that claim to be friends, at no time have we protested. The only protest we made was against the US ambassador, because Angela Merkel had protested and we could not do otherwise at the time. With regard to Great Britain, with respect to Australia, with respect to other governments, with respect to Russia, we have never protested, even though we know the role of espionage they play in our country. I deeply regret it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u17	Mr Minister, yesterday we read in De Tijd that your coalition partner is advocating a reduction in unemployment benefits over time. Let me read out: "If the unemployed find that they can no longer pay the bills, they will try harder to find a job." Those are the words of Mrs Demir in the newspaper yesterday. In other words, they're starving and they're gonna take any job. The first question that occurred to me was whether that is the way the government thinks and talks about the unemployed. Is that the way the majority looks at those who are unlucky in life? If that's the case, I think it's beneath all levels and towards the degout. I am sure that with a reduction in unemployment in time, you will get a greater outflow to the OCMW. In any case, you will be pushing poverty rates up. Unemployment benefits are not at all as unconditional at the moment as some would have us believe. Unemployed people have to take on any job that's suitable. They must accept any training that is suitable for them. They have to prove to themselves that they're looking for work, and they have to do their best to do it, otherwise they'll be suspended. The only thing that can bring down unemployment, Minister, is more jobs. The government would put its energy into creating work much better, it would put its energy into supporting the long-term unemployed to find a job. This can only be done through a targeted reduction of charges. Let it be what Mrs Demir's party colleague no longer does in the Flemish government. I have two questions. What is the government's position? Do you, as the Minister responsible, intend to implement the proposed measure? We cannot get the impression that your coalition partner wants to use that measure as a passport for a capital gain tax. The leader of the group in plenary has already said this in so many words. Mr Minister, do you follow the suggestion or will you say clearly that the limitation in time will not come anyway?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u18	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if job seekers are no longer paid, they will start looking a little harder. That is what a Member of Parliament of one of the government parties says. That's unnecessarily shocking. The measure proposed by the government party, namely the abolition of unemployment benefits after two years, is also counterproductive. Don't get me wrong, helping jobseekers is essential. We need to convince citizens to choose a job. This is not done by pushing them into poverty. I've been a member of the OCMW Council in Ghent for several years and I've never seen anyone find a job because their benefit was taken. Poverty is not working, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Poverty doesn't work. The majority's statement has made the government's position on unemployment benefits very unclear. Yesterday, this question became very topical. Job creation is, after all, an essential lever, but it does not seem to be a real success in this legislative period and even to be quite disappointing. At first, two hundred thousand jobs were promised, then Minister Van Overtveldt mentioned eighty thousand jobs, you mentioned sixty thousand additional jobs and yesterday we heard from the Planning Bureau that it was barely about 16 300 jobs in 2020. So those are barely ten thousand jobs in this legislature. The government takes away the hope of many job seekers. On the one hand, job seekers are offended and, on the other hand, hardly any jobs are created. Job seekers therefore have hardly any job prospects. It's time for the government to create instead of rogue, connect instead of divide. Mr President, my specific question is as follows. What is the government's position on unemployment benefits? Make that clear. Kibble on the hood of the job seekers does not help them move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate what the Prime Minister said earlier, namely that on Friday we managed to reach a social agreement with eight of the ten members of the Group of Ten. This can make a very positive contribution to creating social peace and jobs. That said, since the limitation of unemployment benefits is not included in the government agreement in time, that is not the issue either. I would like to stress that the benefit of unemployment benefit is linked to rights and obligations for each unemployed person throughout the duration of unemployment. The unemployed person who does not comply with the obligations may lose his entitlement to benefits, either temporarily or permanently, after examination of his file. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to quickly overflow the obligations that apply to the unemployed: to be willing to work by actively looking for work, to be available to the labour market, not to maintain or cause unemployment by, for example, refusing an appropriate employment relationship or voluntarily leaving it, and to actively cooperate with the regional employment service when proposing guidance, training or intervention measures. Well, in 2014, a total of 87 395 jobseekers failed to fulfil their obligations and therefore were sanctioned by the RVA because they were unavailable for the labour market or had not actively sought a job or had not been sufficiently active. This is a whole group of people, and this illustrates once again that unemployment benefits are not a free-conductor, but are linked to duties which must be respected by the job seekers. That is a very clear answer and we will continue to work, not only on the implementation of the social agreement, but also on the creation of jobs. I understand, moreover, that there will soon be a question about the number of jobs that will be created in the coming months and years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. If by that you mean that the limitation in time will really not come with this government, I hope your coalition partner has listened carefully. Apparently that is another point on which you disagree in the government. Our social security is a system to which we all contribute together, to ensure that those who are unlucky and in this case receive unemployment benefit are also entitled to that unemployment benefit, because they have paid for it. Don't let that system turn into a charity system, where the unlucky one gets just some crumbs thrown.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. The government's job is to give people hope and not to offend people. People need prospects, guidance for a job and above all a government that makes job creation a clear priority. For inspiration, you can always read our alternative budget. We make clear choices for more guidance and better training for job seekers. We are in favour of increasing benefits up to the poverty line, just like movement.net and civil society organisations, because that is social policy, Minister. Limit the duration of unemployment and not the duration of the benefit. If you wish to do so, you will certainly find an ally in our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u22	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, last December, you justified the government's actions by the need to create jobs, to regain growth. Yesterday we held hearings in the Committee on Social Affairs, which asked me at various levels. First of all, they confirm to us that these measures will hurt the population very much, which I feared. Indeed, there will be a 1.2% decrease in purchasing power, not to mention a 0.4% decrease in GDP. These figures do not take account of pension reform and unemployment measures. Minister, the public is worried, as you know. Social insecurity and poverty will increase, and this is confirmed on the basis of these figures. Secondly, the representative of the Central Economic Council confirmed our figures and methods of calculation, which result in an inverted wage gap of around 2%. This means two things in concrete terms: firstly, the index jump is not necessary to close the wage gap, and secondly, if you keep this index jump, the Belgian workers will be poorer than those of the neighbouring countries. Minister, your government's policy hurts our fellow citizens. Is this pain useful? Does today's suffering offer prospects for tomorrow? Not even! Indeed, the Office of the Plan has made an assessment of the impact of all the measures, of your overall policy. It can be seen that only 16,000 jobs are created. We are far from the 60,000 jobs you enthusiastically announced last December. Your pension reform means working more to earn less and your economic policy means suffering a lot for nothing! Therefore, Minister, can you tell me whether you are questioning the analysis presented by these experts? Are you ready to give up index jumping, now that its usefulness and ineffectiveness are proven? Does your government intend, on the basis of the new figures, to review its employment and purchasing power policy? Are you ready to work with, and above all, for the workers rather than against them?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Daerden, you have asked a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u24	The theme is important!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u25	I found that yesterday you had a very interesting discussion in the committee on the National Bank's report on the Plan Bureau. I'm not an expert model minister. Initially, it is important to make it clear that the National Bank has a model and that the Planning Bureau has worked with another model. A discussion of the two results must also, of course, always take account of the difference in the starting points of the two models and how these differences have been taken into account. There is a second element, the budgetary element. We have taken action. I understand that the Planning Bureau has a negative or negative assessment of certain budgetary measures. That could be a very valuable discussion. Imagine if we did not take budgetary measures and would have problems with Europe. Yesterday and today we have heard other noises from Europe. Imagine if we didn't take any action. If necessary, the impact on employment would be very damaging. This is a second element to be taken into account when comparing the results of the Planning Bureau with those of the National Bank of Belgium. Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the current government intends to create maximum employment. We have taken steps in this respect. I know you're having trouble with the index jump. Thank God, however, we have been able to take further steps in this direction with a number of trade unions. We are convinced that our efforts in the field of job creation in 2015 and also in 2016, such as the reduction of burdens, will create jobs. I will be very happy to continue to participate in the debate on the number of jobs we will create and in the studies on them. However, we assume that we will create a lot of jobs. Based on the studies, including the National Bank of Belgium, we can assume that this will be an enormous number of jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u26	Deputy Prime Minister, I understand your explanation that the Office of the Plan corresponds to a mathematical model other than that of the National Bank. In fact, your focus fits my mind: they are only mathematical models, with theoretical feedback effects. In terms of job creation too, the return effects are totally hypothetical. That is why this clarification leaves me in doubt. What is a reality is clearly the reduction of purchasing power. Thus, you will cause many citizens to suffer for a hypothetical return effect. On the other hand, you will recall that, last Friday, we have taken an important step forward. For me, not on the index jump: indeed, the workers' representatives are unanimous in saying that this is a bad measure. I am even more convinced of this since yesterday, because I listened to these experts and I trust them to admit that this is not a good measure. In addition, to one of my questions, the representative of the National Bank replied that "the reduction in contributions is more effective than the jump in the index for the competitiveness of enterprises". This should be taken into account. Finally, you take the budgetary elements as your excuse. In my view, in order to find an answer, we need to look for other sources of funding and not to weigh the budget balance on workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u27	Minister, e-commerce is hot. Not a day or a week goes by without us receiving reports, fortunately, finally in our country too, which show that e-commerce is booming business and has a nice economic growth. We could use it. Europe has long believed in it and has estimated that within the European Digital Agenda, we can achieve 5% of economic growth by using it. The current government, with Alexander De Croo as minister responsible for the Digital Agenda, also believes in the e-commerce and economic growth and jobs that this sector can bring about. Then why am I asking this question? Colleagues, last Friday I saw a cry from the e-commerce landscape on the front page of a newspaper. A Belgian retail chain indicated that, if nothing changes to our employment regulations, the chain will be forced to move the logistics of e-commerce to the Netherlands. That must have been very hard on you personally, Minister, because in Flanders logistics was a subject on which you wanted to focus. Now logistics and not being able to deliver logistics in e-commerce appear to be a pain in a flexible way. Jobs are constantly being asked for in Parliament. Well, according to a report by the European Union, e-commerce is creating jobs if it is given every opportunity for every two jobs that disappear in our economy, five new jobs, a large part of them also in logistics. But then we will have to do something about our rigid labour market arrangements. How do you look at making our labour market more flexible and flexible so that e-commerce and its logistics in Belgium get all the opportunities?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u28	Minister, 61 percent of Belgians sometimes buy something online. In Belgium there are about 67 000 webshops. Lots of web addresses with the extension. However, they are linked to other countries, including a large part of the webshops. The total turnover of e-commerce amounts to 5.6 billion euros, approximately 6.5 % of total trade turnover. Total turnover is expected to increase to 10% by 2018. Of the 5.6 billion euros, 42% of them go abroad. This amounts to EUR 2.4 billion in the amount of EUR 5.6 billion. Belgian legislation has not been adapted to e-commerce. The main problems in the legislation are the ban on night work in trade and flexibility at peak times. This means that you cannot work between 20h 00 and 6h 00h 00h in the morning, whereas you can work abroad. One can prepare packages there and have them delivered to the customer the next day. In Belgium, this can take several days. Comeos, the representative of trade and services, is concerned. You're right. What does that mean in concrete terms? This means that we have already missed over 8 300 jobs. It also means that we will probably miss another 30 000 jobs in the next three years. In total, we will probably see more than 38 000 jobs missing from our noses. This government with N-VA is committed to entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurs create jobs and those jobs are for our employees. If those workers take the jobs, they have prosperity. It really can't be the intention to let these jobs go abroad. Minister, are you prepared to weaken or suspend the ban on night work in trade in consultation with the sector? What other legal adaptations do you provide to promote job creation in e-commerce? What timing are you pushing forward?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with you that e-commerce is hot and that we must all believe in it, because it can offer a great deal of potential, not only in economic terms but also in terms of employment. So let us stop discussing this. The question is how we can achieve this. We have general measures, such as the reduction of charges that we will continue to work on, but I will not go over them all here. In particular, as far as labour flexibility is concerned, I assume that we know clearly what is contained in the government agreement on labour flexibility for the benefit of the worker, but also of the employer. This concerns flexible work organisation and time, the annualisation of working time, part-time work, overtime, sliding working hours and so on. The rules on night work can also be discussed. It is important that we have a clear coat rack there and that we agree that we do so as far as possible through social dialogue with the partners. I have also received Comeos, which has made a number of very concrete proposals, including wider ones, such as an online payment platform. We are working on this, but I am assuming that the approach to the problem of labour flexibility will take place in maximum consultation with the social partners. Comeos is prepared to do so. We must ensure that, as Mr Ceysen says, e-commerce becomes even hotter than it already is.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u30	Mr President, Minister, I think we will have to come back to this a few more times. For me and my group, this is a crucial dossier because it is a dossier in which jobs are created for low-skilled people, but it also creates many new jobs, such as online marketing. There are new opportunities for people there. It is not possible for us to be afraid of the opportunities of these people for a job, for development or for entrepreneurship in our country by means of out-of-date or out-of-date legislation. I have nothing against foreigners coming here to invest in online commerce. However, it will be a difficult macroeconomic story for us if they implant their logistics at our border, but do not cross that border to create the jobs associated with that trade in our country as well. That's the trouble in logistics today. We can call that here by name. That is what needs to be resolved as a matter of priority. I believe that many other things, such as innovation, are already present in the sector. The odds are there. It is our duty to remove the obstacles, and then e-commerce will certainly be hot for a long time, including in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u31	Mr Minister, Mr Ceysen has already mentioned a great deal that needs to be done. I'm glad you talked to the sector. You have also mentioned that there are a number of measures in the coalition agreement. In particular, night work should be allowed in this sector. Of course, this must be done in consultation with the sector and with the social partners. I hope that all the partners in this story will take a constructive approach to social dialogue, which has not always been the case in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u32	Mr President, Minister, yesterday was World Cancer Day. We have all read in the press about the alarming figures of 65 000 cancer diagnoses per year. One in three men and one in four women has to do with it for the age of 75. The incidence of breast cancer in our country is one of the highest in the world. In men, cancer is also cause of death number one. This does not mean that cancer patients do not want to participate fully in society. They are also trying to rebuild a normal life by participating in the labour market. Those who have cancer or are chronically ill do not want to disappear completely from the labour market. There is often a great sense of reintegration into the labour market. To this end, the system of permitted work exists. However, this system has many problems and many thresholds. Let me list some of them. Often there is a lack of goodwill on the part of the counsellor and also on the part of the employer, who is afraid of the administrative burden involved. There is also a fear that the guaranteed wage will have to be paid several times. With the patient, there is a fear, when he goes to work, that he will suffer financial loss. I'm thinking of losing the increased child benefit or losing the double holiday allowance. All these bottlenecks were listed by the Flemish League Against Cancer and also by the patient platform. I think that Belgium is among the countries with the lowest employment rate of chronically ill people in the labour market. This percentage is 45% in our neighbouring countries, between 50% and 60% in the labour market and even 70% in Scandinavia. Minister, what initiatives will you take to increase this employment rate? Can you explain the state of play at the NAR on the subject of fluctuating and chronic incapacity for work? In what way will you, in cooperation with the Minister for Health and Social Affairs, adapt our system of employment and health care to the growing group of chronically ill people?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Van Hoof, the government agreement makes it very clear that promoting the reintegration of people who are disabled is a very important issue for this government. The starting point here is to start from the question of what the person concerned can do and not just to look at what he or she can no longer do. Of course, there are aspects of social security, which I must continue to work on with Mr De Block, as well as aspects of labour law. In this context, it is very important that the National Labour Council has a consultation platform, where regular debates are held by the various actors involved in the process of voluntary reintegration into the labour market of people with health problems. The respective Cabinets also take part in these consultations. As soon as the work in the National Labour Council has evolved to a certain extent, my colleague and I will take a joint initiative, focusing first and foremost on the opportunities in the labour market for the workers concerned and on the specific problems of the workers suffering from a chronic illness. We want to remedy these problems; we want to create the conditions in which they can retain or resume their work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answer and for the efforts you will make to ensure that these people can enter the labour market and stay there for a while. You want to have a lot of multidisciplinary consultation with the actors involved. This proves that you are aware of the complexity of the matter. However, it is important that you take steps forward. It is important for the psychological effect and self-image of those involved. To feel meaningful in their lives, it is extremely important for them to be able to work. I am sure you will reach an agreement soon. Over the past few weeks, we have already noticed that you are good at this. I am confident that you will also bring this dossier to a successful conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u35	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, a royal decree of 30 December 2014 abolishes the exception concerning the availability on the labour market applicable to persons receiving unemployment benefits with business supplement. This regulation applies to both unemployed persons who become unemployed after 31 December 2014 and those who were unemployed before that date. The only exception is those who were at least 60 years of age at 31 December 2014 and who received unemployment benefits in 2014. This regulation thus seems to call into question the acquired rights of persons who do not fulfil these conditions but who benefit from an agreement prior to the entry into force of the Royal Decree in the context of ongoing restructurings such as at ArcelorMittal or at Ford Genk. What is shocking in this royal decree is the questioning of acquired rights. Indeed, would some workers at ArcelorMittal, for example, have accepted a pre-pension if they had known at the time that the rules of the game would change, with all the consequences that this new rule may have on pension rights? You have recently stated that there is a need for consultation on this issue, although the Royal Decree is taking full effect. I would just like to know what was going on with this consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Matz, I can be very brief because I know the problem very well. You rightly stressed the importance of finding a solution. You have already mentioned the Royal Decree of 31 December 2014 which provides for an exception for persons over 60 years of age. There's still one group that doesn't fit in. I have said on several occasions that I hope that the Group of Ten (or Group of Eight) will come up with proposals to find a solution for the people you mentioned. I've already spoken with the VDAB about people working in Genk. You mentioned another problem in Wallonia. I therefore hope, I repeat, that the Group of Ten or the Group of Eight will propose a solution as soon as possible. This will then be discussed within the government to resolve the problem as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u37	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for this answer, which seems encouraging. You say you've already talked to the VDAB for Ford Genk. There is the problem of ArcelorMittal and perhaps other restructuring companies that we identify less because they have had a smaller media effect. I repeat: our will is not to question the general rule, but to say that commitments have been made to these workers who have accepted pre-pension under the conditions of the moment. Changing these conditions later appears to us to be quite unfair. I very much hope that the social partners will be able to agree on a solution for all those concerned in the case described.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u38	Mr President, Minister, the threat of terrorism at Level 3 gives the police additional tasks, such as extra patrolling, security missions and so on. This is obvious, but it also ensures that in many police areas other tasks are reduced and sometimes reduced to an absolute minimum. I'm doing a selection of the wide range. In Destelbergen there is no more security near the schools, where children cross the street. In the police zones Geel and Mol there is a reduced number of alcohol controls. In Ghent, there are no more anti-lock dumps. In Vilvoorde, bailiffs are no longer accompanied by bailiffs. In Brussels-West, Molenbeek, Koekelberg and so on, there are 60% fewer drug offences, but there is an increase in the number of burglaries due to the reduced use of police patrols. For example, countless other examples have made it to the press in recent weeks. I am not blaming you, let us be clear, but the security of citizens must not be compromised, and criminals must not be allowed to go free because of the increased threat of terrorism. In many municipalities and police areas it is not quite clear how to act. Are there any guidelines? Is there a ministerial letter to the various police zones and to the mayors? What can, and what can't? Within what limits do we have to play? What chalk lines have you drawn out for them in these special circumstances?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u39	Mr President, Mr Dewinter, this is a question to which I have already replied in committee. There has indeed been a circular from our services to the various local police areas, with a list of the tasks that must be carried out and the tasks that can be postponed. As a result of your question, we have taken the elements together again, and overall there is no reduction in the effective use of the police. That is absolutely not the case. A number of measures have led to this. First and foremost, all police forces, both at federal and local level, are working hard. Leaves are being postponed, overtime is being worked and policemen are working harder to ensure our security in these particularly difficult circumstances with a level 3 terrorist threat. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to all of them, both local police and federal police and the 300 military, for their commitment to these harsh times, including in terms of weather conditions and their incredible commitment to our security and to those of our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u40	Minister, I would like to join with you in thanking you. Overtime, a little bit of work and extra effort, that is all good and good, but such a situation does not last. On the contrary, the longer the level 3 is held, the more difficult it becomes and the more precarious the situation on the ground becomes. Perhaps it is necessary not only to give thanks to police forces, but also to consider maintaining military forces for security and patrol missions, even after the threat of terrorism from level 3 is hopefully falling back to level 2 and level 1. In this way it can be maintained and the security of citizens can be guaranteed in all circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u41	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, as part of the Gaudi project set up between December 11, 2014 and January 18, 2015, which was initiated by your Secretary of State and yourself, 542 people were intercepted. The Gaudi action is a pilot project which was carried out simultaneously in eight cities in our country (Antwerpen, Gent, Leuven, Brussels City, Molenbeek-Saint-Jean, Liège, Charleroi and Braine-l'Alleud). In these cities, specific actions have been taken against pickpockets. It is for this reason that this operation was called Operation Gaudi, with reference to "gauwdief". This operation was carried out during the holiday period, when there are the most offences. According to media reports, out of 542 arrests, 70 persons were deported. The cases of expulsion of some 60 persons were under examination, 247 persons had been ordered to leave the territory and the others had been returned to the Foreign Office or to the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Gaudi project presents itself as an example of collaboration between the Office of Foreigners and federal and especially local police and aims to give a signal, in particular with regard to a feeling of impunity that may exist among some offenders who find themselves in the street very quickly. It is also a signal to citizens who do not understand that these people are very quickly in a space of proximity. In view of these elements, Minister, my questions are as follows. What is your assessment of this pilot project, particularly in comparison with last year's figures for the same period? What follow-ups are reserved for this project? Consider carrying out similar additional actions by focusing on, for example, phenomena such as the sale of drugs, the possession of weapons, the sale of stolen objects in public space. This type of behaviour has a negative impact on certain neighbourhoods, especially the inhabitants living there. Can you confirm to me that the distinction between illegal residents and those whose files are being processed is well made at the level of treatment? What is the cooperation between the Foreign Office and local police?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u42	Mrs Schepmans, you mentioned a few figures and I will add more. For the period you mentioned, from December 11, 2014 to January 18, 2015, the Office of Foreigners received administrative reports for 287 interceptions with flight reports and 255 interceptions for other breaches of public order, for a total of 542 interceptions. You asked me to make a comparison with the previous period. For the 2013-2014 reporting period, the number of interceptions was 402. The increase is currently one third. A total of 18 persons under arrest were taken to prison and 37 persons were brought before the Public Prosecutor's Office. A two- to eight-year entry ban was imposed on persons detained in closed centres. In the meantime, 70 people have already been repatriated to their countries of origin. In addition, 247 persons were ordered to leave the Territory. A residence procedure was under way for 78 persons. For those who have not been locked up in the centres, a pre-identification procedure has been initiated to the extent possible: 157 persons have been provisionally catalogued in the pre-identification procedure. The first people have already been identified and locked up in closed centres. Two thirds of cases are currently actively monitored by the Office of Foreigners. You also asked me if we were going to continue with the current project. The evaluation is under way, but in view of these figures, it would be logical to carry out such a project again at the end of the year holidays; I also think that the period of summer balances can be envisaged to carry out such an action. As I have already explained, it is necessary to distinguish between "persons in illegal residence" and "persons in the course of proceedings". I therefore confirm that the persons whose proceedings are under way are not expelled. For the record, I can be satisfied with the result and excellent cooperation on the ground between the various departments concerned. In fact, this was confirmed by my colleague Secretary of State Theo Francken, to whom I convey my best wishes on the occasion of the anniversary today. To answer your last question, it is true that some mayors have repeatedly pointed out that they are not aware of this Gaudi project. That's not true. I checked: they received information through their police area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u43	Mr President, I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his answers and, of course, for following this issue with interest, because it is a pilot project. However, by definition, a pilot project still raises questions. As you said, Deputy Prime Minister, improving communication and collaboration between local police and the Foreign Office seems to me to be a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u44	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday at the Palais de Justice in Brussels, a lawyer was molested by agents of the palace's security corps. So these agents didn't catch a dangerous terrorist; they hit a lawyer! You will certainly tell me that an investigation will be carried out in order to understand the events. Be aware, in any case, that such a practice of violence against a lawyer who had only his toge as his shield and as his only weapon under his arm, is shocking to me. One may wonder about the security measures that you have organised for the Palais de Justice in Brussels. If it is actually necessary to do so, which ones should actually be applied? For the time being, the measures you have put in place are based on a real capharnaum. Indeed, the lines are endless. Judges and lawyers have informed us that it is becoming increasingly difficult to organize a criminal hearing. Indeed, either it is the lawyer, it is the civil party, or it is the defendants who fail to arrive on time because of the queue. The situation is compounded by the fact that the security corps no longer has enough officers to accompany detainees to the meeting rooms. The officers of a department are not asked to go through the portico. On the other hand, lawyers who are considered potential culprits must borrow the portals. We decide to secure the large entrance to the Palace of Justice. On the other hand, there is no provision for side entrances, nor for the Montesquieu building, where approximately 500 people work and where there is a come-and-go of more or less 1,000 people a day, nor for the commercial court. Minister, what evaluation work have you done to achieve such negligence, such disruption to the detriment of the litigants?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u45	Dear colleague, your judgment is hard; it could be expected. In this case, having been both lawyers, we always switch between the impatience full of understanding and the understanding full of impatience. I think my services are doing their best. I would like to explain that we have organized security in the Palaces of Justice on the basis of a triple concept: the organisation of the ground, the configuration of the building and the electronic equipment available. Since the OCAM threat assessment is currently level 3, it is clear that there are military personnel present and that security has been increased through scanning portals at the central entrance of the palace on the one hand and for the assize courtyard on the other. This was done in close collaboration with the FPS Justice, the judiciary, the police and the security forces. I am in constant contact with the two Brussels batons who understand the necessary security measures although they complain about the patience lawyers have to testify to. However, there is a priority queue for lawyers. The incident you were talking about happened yesterday. I am told that it was caused by a lawyer who wanted to borrow access from the assize court reserved for staff, civil parties and citizens who want to attend a sitting of the assize court. They interrogated him. Apparently, there was an incident. I have more to do with this. But I'm asking you for a little more understanding, as I have for the batons. I've read the press releases, which come in as we speak. I really believe that everyone, especially the security corps in my ministry, is doing their best. Because in this case, it is officials who must make security within the palace possible because of a lack of personnel at the police and military levels. We are really doing our best, and I apologize if necessary, Mrs. Onkelinx, but we are doing and trying to do well. We do not deliberately molest lawyers. You can understand it and you understand it, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u46	Minister, you spoke to me as a former lawyer and as Minister of Justice. I'll answer you as a former lawyer. I'll tell you that lawyers are at the moment well ill-treated. Yesterday's incident is just one of many. This is not the first time that the batons, and even the president of the court of first instance, have to intervene in recent days to resolve a crisis situation at the entrance to the Palais de Justice. In matters of security, the contempt for lawyers seems unbearable to me! I say it and I repeat it! Mr. Minister of Justice, there have been no assessments of equipment and personnel requirements in this area. As a result, a portico was quickly installed, while most of the other entrances and most of the other buildings are not secure. We've made "façadism" when we need real security for the benefit of the people! So instead of saying, "Everything is fine, Madame Marquise!", I believe that you must take this case in hand and make a proposal in order to ensure the safety of everyone, respecting all the litigants and lawyers!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, this week several media outlets have denounced a particularly shocking fact for supporters of equal access to health care. Some hospital doctors have refused to treat patients who are in a common room, allegedly because they can no longer receive additional fees. The ban on the practice of fee supplements dates from January 1, 2013, and this explains this type of behaviour. Of course, you've reacted. You said that these doctors had no right to do so, that it was an illegal practice and a deontological error. I was able to read in the press that the whole of the doctors are not of the same opinion. This says a lot about the unease that continues to develop around the funding of hospitals and doctors' fees. In addition, you said that you are working on a reform of hospital funding to allow for greater transparency in the fees of these doctors. Minister, this situation leads me to ask you a few questions. What is the penalty for a doctor acting in this way? Is there currently any control or any means to detect such practices? Is there no need to improve the admission statement when you report to the hospital? This would make it easier for patients. They would have a better understanding of the financial consequences when they go back to the clinic. This would also indicate an estimate of the larger costs. Finally, would the introduction of a single invoice not better protect patients? Often we get several bills one after the other and we don't find ourselves there anymore. I would like to know whether, in the reform you are proposing, all these aspects will be integrated?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u48	Madam Secretary, it is reported in the press that certain specialists are no longer taking care of patients living in double rooms. More facts are coming to light: patients are being pushed to take a single room, so that there would be payouts. I believe that such practices can be considered unacceptable in a country such as Belgium. In a country like Belgium, everyone is entitled to health care and equal treatment. In Belgium, we are moving towards class medicine and we must do something about it, Madam Minister. You said that patients should file more individual complaints with the Order of Doctors. As a minister, I think you should intervene in such facts. That is also my first question. You must give a clear political signal that this cannot be done. You should also take measures to prevent such malpractices; patients should not be left alone in resisting the pressure to pay more and more for pay supplements and hospital care. The pay supplements are a big problem in our medicine, because more and more specialists are making money on the back of the patients. I have here a report from the Federal Health Knowledge Centre, which you will probably also know. That includes an analysis of the great-earned among the hospital doctors. It appears that the kidney specialists as top earners bring home 640 000 euros gross per year. Radiologists and clinical biologists take 430 000 to 460 000 euros a year. The report is clear about this: in it they have not even settled what they have earned from the hospitals or what they still deserve in private. Madam Minister, Professor Annemans has proposed the abolition of wage supplements as a solution. I'll share the diagnosis with him. What do you think of his proposal? Would that not be a solution, both for the financing of our hospitals, and for the problem of high wage supplements, which today increasingly provide a two-speed medicine in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u49	Mr President, Mr Hedebouw, Mrs Caprasse, it is obvious that the patient can freely choose his doctor, but this freedom of choice is not absolute. There are circumstances in which the patient's choice is not respected, for example when he or she has specific wishes or when the desired doctor is not available, or when the emergency or daycare services are organized. It should be noted, however, that the only reason that the patient refuses to opt for a single room and therefore does not wish to pay additional fees is never a valid reason for limiting the patient's choice. Such an attitude is contrary to the ethical rules of doctors and the Order of Physicians confirms this in its opinion of February 22, 2014. "It is contrary to medical ethics that a doctor refuses to care for a patient on the sole ground that the patient refuses to choose a single room". I think this opinion is very clear. I will also refer to the Hospitals Act. During the last review of the admission declaration and the document that each patient signs during hospitalization when choosing the room type, the points were placed on the i. It is clearly stated in this document that the choice of doctor is not limited by the choice of room type. These practices are therefore unacceptable and every patient must be entitled to the same accessibility and quality of care! Mr Hedebouw, as I said earlier, a great work for our government, in which we have already invested a great deal of energy, is the revision of the funding of hospitals. At the same time, there will also be a review of the nomenclature, i.e. fees, and Royal Decree No. 78, that the health professions should be reformed. I do not want to take up the serene debate that I want to have at the table. We are sitting there with people with conflicting interests, including the patients, the health insurance funds, the doctors' syndicates and the trade unions. There must be a serious debate on this. And, more importantly, we also need a refinancing of our hospitals. We have already had a great deal of consultation on this subject and that consultation is taking place in a serene atmosphere. Of course, you and Mr Annemans have the right to have another idea. I do regret the fact that, because of a few rare facts, we do not even know how many facts are involved, but each fact is too much of a fact to throw the bat into the hive, which stands in the way of any serene way of finding a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u50	Mr President, Madam Minister, I thank you for your answer, but I do not think it is clear enough. Indeed, my question was more focused on your reform project. I believe that you will be regularly re-examined on this point. There are a lot of irregularities in hospitals, hospitals are heavily indebted, nothing works properly anymore. The amount of work needed to remedy it is impressive. We therefore hope that your project to reform hospital funding will be effective in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u51	Madam Secretary, I agree that there should be a serene debate. However, I would like to emphasise that there is a certain urgency and that the free choice you are referring to is no longer possible in different hospitals because patients have to choose a double room for financial reasons. We can't do that anymore. You also say that there are people with different interests around the table. I think the patient should be at the centre, Madam Secretary. That's what politics is about. It cannot be that in a country like Belgium, for financial reasons, a person no longer has access to a level of medicine. You must now ensure that the Supplements of Honor, which are becoming increasingly widespread, remain under control and that there is no more two-speed medicine in Belgian hospitals. That's what you should do, Madam Secretary. I am counting on the patient to be at the heart of government policy in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u52	Madam Minister, it is not the first time we have met in this dossier and I fear it will not be the last time. Let me briefly outline the situation once again. In the late 1990s it was decided at federal level to introduce a quota for doctors. That was necessary, too. At Flemish level an entrance exam was immediately introduced, on the Walloon side nothing happened. That has consequences today. Hundreds of students are threatening to graduate without looking at a RIZIV-number and therefore without seeing a chance to perform their job properly. That's bad. However, the responsibility for this lies very clearly in the French Community camp, in the camp of the PS-excellencies who have dragged the dossier for years in the hope that it will be resolved in the long term. You were very clear shortly after your appointment. You have said that you want to continue talking as an entrance exam or a filter can be entered at the beginning of the following year. Then it can be considered whether the students who are currently studying on the Walloon side can make a preliminary purchase on the RIZIV numbers, as long as that can be refunded in the future. That is acceptable to us. In the meantime, however, Mr Marcourt has completed his plan. So, what's going on? He actually wants to introduce a filter by the end of next year. So he wants to postpone the problem again. It's been postponed for 15 years and we're putting it off here again. In reply to a previous question from me, you said that in that case the discussion will stop for you. You didn't want to do anything anymore. Well, we're here now. What are you gonna do now?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u53	Mrs Van Peel, thank you for the soap opera on those songs. I read Mr Marcourt's reaction in the press last week. I got them by letter, too. He is working on a solution through a filter to restrict access to medical studies in Wallonia. We need to see what he's got to say. I understand that there are also hearings in progress in the French-speaking Parliament. I therefore find it somewhat strange that a plan is already in place before these hearings have taken place and Members have been able to make their views known. We need to find a solution for the students involved. However, there is one condition. Before we decide to assign new RIZIV numbers, the Communities must first install an adequate filter. That was the condition. Meanwhile, I have the services working on a dynamic register so that by the middle of this year the right information can be given to the Planning Committee. Of course, work must be carried out at the Inter-Ministerial Conference, which will soon resume its work. The aim is to set up a working group on health professions. This group will have to deal, inter alia, with the issue of RIZIV numbers. The aim is to draw up the necessary measures and a roadmap in an inter-federal cabinet working group, in the womb of the Inter-Ministerial Conference. The effectiveness of the inflow filters proposed by the Länder will also be assessed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference, both by the Federal State and by the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u54	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I think you will have to make another phone call with Mr Marcourt. You're gonna have to make it clear to him that the slope he's researching right now isn't possible. You were clear during your consultation with Mr Marcourt. After all, we will not extend this situation again. That's not fair. We cannot continue to explain this, not to Walloon students, but certainly not to Flemish students, who have not been able to start their studies because they had to take an entrance exam.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u55	Mr President, Minister, I heard this morning on radio and I was able to read in the written press excellent news about the well-being envelopes. They will be used in a maximum manner for the period 2015-2016 while, if my memories are good, they were not fully used for the period 2013-2014. If I understood correctly, there would even be an increase of more than 40% in use. This use will allow beneficiaries, whether pensioners, employees or self-employed, to benefit from it. We are also talking about the smallest and oldest pensions, as well as an increase in holiday money for single people and for households. Mr Minister, is this progress, far from being negligible at the social level, the one that we all had the opportunity to hear and read in the press this morning? How many pensioners will be directly affected by this agreement? Do you ensure that this fits well within the current budgetary framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u56	Mr President, my dear colleague, Mr Burmese, I welcome the proposals made by the Group of Ten on the allocation of the welfare envelope. At the budgetary level, this well-being envelope can be found in the 2015 and 2016 budgets. It is therefore the entire well-being envelope resulting from the Generations Pact that is contained in the Government Agreement. This is in fact 40% more than the 2013-2014 envelope since we use 100% of this envelope. In the allocation of the welfare envelope, the Group of Ten's proposals correspond to the Government's priorities for the upgrading of small pensions, i.e. to ensure that they gradually rise above the European poverty line. This is a goal that the government has set itself. This concerns both the employee sector and the self-employed sector. The public service sector has another mechanism, equalization, which is not covered here. The proposals will be reviewed in the near future and will be the subject of implementing orders from the government. They do provide for 2% of the minimum pensions, i.e. more than 600,000 people will be covered by the provision. The holiday fee will also be adjusted for nearly two million pensioners. The oldest pensions before 1995 will also be revalued, for 500,000 people. This will further improve the 2010 and 2011 cohorts. This is therefore a spectacular step forward which will enable the whole of small pensions to be revalued at a time when some are experiencing difficulties.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u57	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, thank you for your answers. Even though my questions looked pretty simple, one thing is certain, minister, is that you answered my three questions. Honestly, I particularly appreciate your quiet strength. I saw in this chamber, when you presented your general policy note, that some, among other things, in the opposition, had chosen the path of confrontation. You then asked to give yourself time to set up your projects, to come back and present us concrete projects to prove that you can move forward in the interests of the people. I would add, Minister, that you are proving that the present government is capable of working in the social sphere, without the socialist family at its side.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u58	Minister, the National Bank still holds a stock of 227 tons of gold worth more or less 7 to 8 billion. As a reminder, some 15 years ago, we had 1,200 tons worth more or less 38 billion, or 10 per cent of the debt. According to Het Nieuwsblad, we will repatriate 200 tons from the Bank of England. In the meantime, Germany and the Netherlands have requested the repatriation of their gold stocks scattered abroad. The Netherlands thus wants to strengthen public confidence in the ability of its central bank to manage crises. Indeed, in the face of possible monetary turbulence that could result from a Greek default - made all the more plausible by the victory of Syriza - some economists believe that holding gold would be an element of comfort and guarantee, especially if national currencies were reintroduced as a result of the collapse of the euro. Our Dutch neighbours have been working on such a scenario in recent years, which explains the repatriation. I will quote Alan Greenspan, the former director of the Fed, who said, at the end of October 2014, in New York: "Gold is a currency and it is always, until proven otherwise, a currency of first choice". It is therefore not surprising, Minister, that many states are busy increasing their reserves massively, such as Russia and China. Under these circumstances, Minister, and in light of recent developments, can you tell us whether the National Bank is conducting a physical audit of our gold reserves deposited in the Bank of England, Canada and Switzerland? If yes, when was it achieved? What are the results? Are you of the opinion that such an audit is necessary? Furthermore, if we understand the discretion that must surround the repatriation operation as to the place of storage and the mode of transport, can you tell us the pace of this? Do Belgium, and in particular the National Bank, have structures capable of hosting, in sufficient security conditions, nearly 16,000 ingots? It appears that the cost of storage in London is approximately EUR 250 000 per year. What will be the budget in Belgium? Have infrastructure investments been planned? Taking into account the fact that many central banks are massively buying physical gold, is it not time for our country to consider a similar policy in order to have at least a level similar to that of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u59	Mr President, Mr Carcaci, at the end of 2014, the value of the Belgian gold market was €7.2 billion. Apart from a small amount in the National Bank's chests, our gold reserves are held with the Bank of England, the Bank of Canada and the Bank for International Settlements in Basel, Switzerland. The cost of storing gold reserves currently amounts to EUR 250 000 per year. Unfortunately, I do not have any concrete figures for storage costs in Belgium. As part of the certification of accounts, the National Bank's internal audit department has periodically confirmed, for all National Bank correspondents, the value of the assets held by the National Bank with them. The National Bank also intends in the coming months to make use of the Bank of England's recent facility to conduct an on-site verification of the Bank of England's gold holdings. Since the location of the gold reserves is the responsibility of the central banks on whose balance sheet they are recorded, there is no debate on the matter at European level or a coordinated policy within the Eurosystem. Decisions on the appropriateness of buying, selling or arbitrating gold are the exclusive and autonomous responsibility of the Board of Directors of the National Bank and cannot be influenced by the Belgian Government. The National Bank is proactively studying the possibility of repatriation. For the time being, the National Bank believes that it is preferable to stick to the current situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u60	Minister, thank you for your answer. Will there be, yes or no, repatriation? You can't tell me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u61	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, 18 December 2014 was one of the darkest days for Limburg. Ford Genk closed the doors. About 4,000 employees lost their jobs. Also, the most recent unemployment rates of January 2015 are not lying. The number of unemployed in Limburg is rising by 3.4 %. So there's a need for job creation. The system of favours available to the affected zones, namely the exemption from the transfer of the holding levy of 25% for new employment, can provide a solution and can therefore be found as soon as possible. The Flemish government has coloured Limburg as well as the Kempen as a support zone. Minister, in November 2014, you replied in the Finance Committee that you had to amend the law under the new European regulation of 17 June 2014. You were also in the process of drawing up cooperation agreements with the regions. Minister, not only the employers but also the future employees are waiting for this measure so that new jobs can be offered and employees can get back to work. Mr Minister, may I ask you, when will you submit the amended draft to the Chamber? When will the agreements with the regions be in order, so that the workers in Limburg but also in the Kempen can get back to work?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u62	Mr President, Mrs Wouters, at the end of last year the Council of Ministers adopted the preliminary draft law amending the Competitiveness Pact and the Income Tax Code. These legislative adjustments were necessary to bring Belgian legislation into line with the European regulation of 17 June 2014, as you yourself said, declaring certain categories of aid compatible with the internal market under Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. On 22 January 2015, the Council of State delivered an opinion on this preliminary draft. That bill was amended, taking into account the comments of the Council of State and then signed by the King. My associates are checking the prints now. Today or tomorrow at the latest, the draft law will be submitted to Parliament. I hope that this bill will soon be discussed in the Chamber. Following the adoption of the law in the Chamber, a cooperation agreement must also be concluded with the regions wishing to benefit from this aid. The draft cooperation agreement has already been approved by the Federal Council of Ministers. The draft was presented to the Regions and discussed in the Consultation Committee at the end of January. The cooperation agreement with the Flemish Region will be submitted to the parties for signature as soon as possible after the Adaptation Act has entered into force. The cooperation agreements with the other regions will be submitted to the Parties for signature after the negotiations with these regions have been completed. In order to be able to apply the aid measure, there is also a need for an RB, which includes the assisted areas and the form to be submitted before the start of the investment. My administration is working hard on these texts so that they can be sent quickly to the Council of State for advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u63	That is good news, Minister, for Limburg and for the Kempen, who will be able to benefit from the measure. I therefore hope that we will be able to work on this as soon as possible and that your administration will complete the agreements and the royal decree as soon as possible. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, that we should be able to put the draft on the agenda of the Finance Committee as soon as possible. If it's up to me, that can happen next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, I must point out that most of the questions and the majority of the answers were extremely long. You are pushing me towards strict application of the Rules of Procedure, which I do not want. We have a choice. I am therefore addressing the leaders of the political groups in order to control the troops a little. The Rules of Procedure provide for two minutes' speaking time for the question, two minutes' speaking time for the answer and one minute's speaking time for the reply. It would improve the quality of our debate if the time limits were respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u65	We have to tell the ministers too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u66	You're right. The majority of responses were also far too long!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u67	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 4 February 2015, I propose that you enter the following interviews on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the interplay of Mr Ahmed Laaouej with the Minister for Finance on "the new tax regularisation" (No. 16). - the interplay between Mr Peter Vanvelthoven and the Minister of Finance on "the spontaneous regularisations by the FPS Finance" (No. 17). - the interplay of Mr Georges Gilkinet with the Minister for Finance on 'a directive on tax regularization' (No. 18). - the interplay of Mrs Meyrem Almaci with the Minister for Finance on fiscal amnesty (No. 19). - the interplay of Mr Marco Van Hees with the Minister for Finance on the new tax regularisation arrangements (No. 20). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 4 February 2015, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the following questions: - the inquiry of Mr Ahmed Laaouej to the Minister of Finance on "the new tax regularization" (No. 16); - the inquiry by Mr Peter Vanvelthoven to the Minister of Finance on "spontaneous adjustments made by the SPF Finances" (No. 17). - the inquiry by Georges Gilkinet to the Minister of Finance on "a directive on tax regularisation" (No. 18). - the inquiry by Mrs Meyrem Almaci to the Minister of Finance on the tax amnesty (No. 19). - the inquiry by Mr Marco Van Hees to the Minister of Finance on the new tax regularisation (No. 20). I would suggest that you register these interviews before discussing the motions for resolutions. I propose that you include these questions before the debate on the motions for resolutions. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observations? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u68	I would remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which give the first speaker ten minutes' speaking time, and the second and all subsequent speakers five minutes' speaking time. Those who wish to join can do so only after the reply of the Minister, who is given 20 minutes under the Rules of Procedure, and after the replies of the interpreters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u69	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it was recently learned that Swiss banks advise their Belgian customers to repatriate their assets to Belgium. Should we see a surge of scrupulousness or generosity on the part of Swiss bankers? Certainly not! Rather, it must be seen as a sign that, gradually, the stranglehold is tightened on a number of countries which, so far, have practised bank secrecy in a very extensive way. This is being tightened due to the gradual development of the automatic exchange of information between States, which is slowly beginning to become the norm. It is at this very moment, even when the Swiss bankers are telling those who have hidden their money at home "attention, it might be better who you would repatriate your money", at a time when it is clear that the automatic exchange is bearing fruit, that your administration decides in catini to organise a permanent regularization outside a legal framework. I would like to remind you, Mr. Minister of Finance, that it is up to Parliament to establish taxes, to vote on tax laws. This is the principle of the legality of taxation. It is also up to Parliament to vote democratically on tax exemptions. What do we learn here? That there is a permanent regularization organized by the administration that you seem to approve. I'll tell you something very simple. You're sending a triple negative signal. First of all because you are pursuing an anti-social policy for the time being. There's no need to go back. This has been illustrated again today: index jumps, dark cuts in health care, counting of public services... You're organizing a bad shift instead of a tax shift, that is, you're going to look in the workers' pocket to fill that of shareholders. How do you want the public to understand that while we put pressure on it, we will again allow a whole series of great fraudsters to get away with it at little cost. The second negative signal you are sending is that your administration is making this permanent regularisation announcement, which highlights the extreme weakness of your government agreement in the fight against tax fraud and in the fight against financial crime. You're even worse. You have decided to reform the secret commission regime, which was designed to discourage tax fraud, you have reduced the penalties for secret commission to an almost symbolic level, and therefore you are even doing worse, you are encouraging tax fraud. It is therefore a second negative signal, an encouragement to fraud. Finally, a third negative signal that you send, finally that your administration sends but you seem to approve it in your statements to the press, even though the previous government had said – and that is common sense – that if you make a declaration of regularization, that must be the last one. Why? Because if it's not the last one, it means "fraud, fraud, there will always come a law to come and whiten you". The previous single release declaration had, moreover, provided for significant penalty rates higher than the previous ones. Common sense would have been to say it was the last one. Here you do the opposite, you establish a permanent regularization. In fact, there is an internal note and I would like to recall how this internal circular violates the Constitution. But we would like to know this internal note. Can we dispose of this circular? Because we want to know, we modest legislators, to whom the Constitution entrusts the task of voting taxes and tax exemptions. We would like to know the intended effect, the penalties provided for. We would like to know whether officials continue to have an obligation to report cases of tax evasion that constitute criminal offences to the Public Prosecutor's Office (article 29 of the Code of Criminal Investigation). We would like to know how this system of permanent regularization organized by your administration will allow the application of the law on money laundering, which is now being analysed by the FATF. He also whispers that the FATF might have something to say about how your government in Belgium decides to fight money laundering. Will the information collected by your administration regarding major tax frauds which would at the same time constitute a money laundering offence be transmitted to the Financial Information Processing Unit? Will the fraud schemes that will be highlighted be used and also transmitted to the relevant departments? Finally, because we see the matter coming, are you going to plan a budget return for this permanent regularization? Do you count on this permanent regularisation to finance your so-called tax shift, which is still expected of the rest and whose contours will soon be exposed to us in this chamber? It would only be necessary to finance a reduction in taxes on labour income (which is still to be assessed and which is not yet known as to its level), a kind of white-seing given to tax fraud is used. Minister, as you can see, there are a lot of questions. There are questions that arise at the level of principles, on the Constitution, in terms of opportunity and more generally in terms of the coherence of the policy you lead, an anti-social policy and the preparation of a "bad shift" rather than a tax shift!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u70	Mr President, Minister, the previous government has decided on a tax regularisation that has allowed black and grey money to be regularised, subject to the payment of fairly high fines and tax increases. It was important at the same time that a signal was sent to taxpayers and fraudsters, in particular that it would be the last time. Tax regularisation was also linked to a whole series of measures to tackle tax fraud harder, in other words to close the grid and close the loopholes. The BBI was then strengthened by 20%, a framework for tax magistrates was created and the fight against tax fraud was stepped up. In recent years, we have all seen the results of this. They were allowed to be there. We have worked hard on this in our country. This has also happened internationally, including the automatic exchange of bank data between as many as 89 countries. A new money laundering directive is also on the way. These are all measures that ensure that fraudsters start to feel that they are getting stuck and standing with their backs against the wall. What we read in the newspapers last weekend is therefore disturbing. It is worrying because at least the suggestion can be inferred that this government and the administration would be in the process of organising, as it were, a permanent tax regularisation, when it was agreed at the time that it would stop at the end of 2013. There is talk of regularisation of preferential tariffs, regularisation of negotiated tariffs and regularisation on the basis of anonymous files. There would also be an administrative circular containing guidelines. So there are many questions, Minister. I am particularly concerned because this follows in the list of cases I am pleased that the Secretary of State for the fight against fraud is also present, as we have been able to see in the meantime. I would remind you that the previous government received 600 million extra each year from the fight against fraud, while the current government is registering 60 million, which is drastically less, and we have already discussed this in detail in committee. This means that the level of ambition is very low. Secondly, Madam Secretary of State's policy paper naturally highlighted one measure, in particular the measure to raise cash payments to EUR 7 500, which was limited to EUR 3 000 in the previous government. That's what your policy paper says, Madam Secretary of State. I believe that we are the only country in Europe where the limit for cash payments does not go down, but goes up. The announcements of such measures by this government, or by one political party, which once again demonstrates the division in this government, are worrying me, all the more so now that there would be something like a circular to allow tax regularisation after 2013. Minister and Secretary of State, we need to stop tax regularisation immediately. Fraudsters have been given opportunities. The fraudsters we catch today must be punished, in accordance with tax legislation. In the event of serious tax fraud, they will also have to answer to the courts. Mr President, first of all, is there really the letter that I mentioned earlier? If so, why was it not published? And if he exists, I suppose we'll get a copy of it for inspection today. Secondly, is it true that the level of fines and tax increases can be negotiated? Thirdly, is it true that anonymous files are being negotiated? In other words, will the tax authorities first check out what is possible or not and will it not be disclosed about who it is after an agreement? Is that the case? Fourthly, are the prosecutor or the court also informed in the case of cases of serious tax fraud? I can expect that after 2013.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u71	Mr President, Mr Minister, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, unlike the two speakers who preceded me in this rostrum, the Greens have never associated themselves with the tax amnesty operations decided on several occasions. I am thinking in particular of the one that offered fraudsters the opportunity to regularise their situation until the end of 2013. We believe that taxes must be paid by everyone on the basis of their resources, of the nature of their income and that those who fraud must be hunted down by the public authorities and severely punished from the moment they deprive the community every year of billions of euros, which would nevertheless be very useful in meeting all the challenges we face, be they social, economic, societal or environmental. If we prefer that the money currently hidden abroad by Belgian citizens be repatriated to Belgium and that it contributes to the functioning of our economy – although it is necessary for banks to play their part in financing our real economy rather than engaging in risky financial investments – we have always rejected the principle of regularisation at very low costs for fraudsters, without requiring them to prove the origin of the regulated funds, without possible further prosecution by the courts. This is, however, what the previous regularisation laws, namely the falsely referred to as DLU (single release declaration) and the subsequent ones, are aimed at. We have never accepted them, we have always denounced them, and we have regularly put alternative proposals on the table. Indeed, such regularisations send a very bad signal to fraudsters or fraudster candidates, the one in Belgium, if one tries to avoid tax, there is always a way out of it, and there is even more and more means of getting out of it. They are also in complete contradiction with the stated aim of all members of this Parliament to combat tax fraud effectively. I remember the remarkable commission of inquiry in 2007! However, to get to the precise subject of the day, according to the last law passed by the previous majority, the final possibility of tax regularization was set for January 2, 2014. I think that this was done at the time with enough publicity so that no one can honestly claim not to have had time to get in order. And yet, and that is what leads us to question you, it seems that you have issued a new directive for the benefit of those people who want to repatriate their black money to Belgium, an internal note that would allow us to continue to agree to regularize this black money. This, without a legal basis – I am an active member of the Finance Committee and I am quite attentive to what is happening in this House, no law has been passed on the subject – and without transparency; as if we had not given sufficient opportunities in advance to regularise its situation; as if it was a good signal to be given today in the face of the scale of fraud. I do not know how the Secretary of State allowed you to have this directive published, if any. I invite everyone to question the multiplication of exit doors, the possibilities of escaping a fair sanction, whether in the head of the previous majorities – enough texts have been denounced, I am also thinking of the amicable criminal transaction – or of yours. Minister, my questions are quite similar to those of colleagues. Do you confirm the existence of this directive? The information comes from a press article. You seem to confirm it, but it would be nice to face it in the House. What justifies it? Who took the initiative? Does it come from the minister himself or from his services? What is its legal basis? Can you pass it on to us and provide us with some statistics? It is said that there is a strong demand: how many taxpayers have made use of it since the end of the fiscal regularization possibilities on 2 January? Do you have any idea of the amounts involved? What are the rules applied to the taxpayers concerned, in particular the justification of the origin of the regularised funds, which we believe is essential? What is the tax rate then applied, since the tax rate also depends on the nature of the income? What about penalties? Are there any real penalties imposed on the persons concerned? I would also like to ask you whether legal proceedings are still possible with regard to criminal acts that might have been the source of these funds. In conclusion, the government, and in particular your party, but the responsibility is collective, acts exactly the opposite of what should be done: to weaken the most fragile, to deprive of the allowance of people who struggle to close their ends for months, to postpone the charges to the communes or other levels of power, to lead our country in a climate of economic depression and, on the contrary, to be soft, unvoluntaristic or extremely understanding towards those who fraud. It's the world upside down. I hope that, in a few minutes' time, you will be able to contradict the existence of this circular and confirm your willingness to fight fraud with sufficient means.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u72	Minister, fair and just taxation is a hot issue and a very topical social issue. In addition to the debate on the whole tax shift and the simplification of taxation, a subject that sometimes gets a little snowy, there is therefore also a debate on whitening, on tackling fraud and avoidance, which is an important element in the evolution towards fair taxation. Our group has taken many initiatives in Parliament in recent years. We in the committee, first and foremost, have tabled a proposal for the removal of banking secrecy and we have also asked questions about the exercise of liberating declarations and tax regulations. We have also asked for an end date to be set. It is no coincidence that it is a hot issue, given the current circumstances, in which savings after saving affect the European Member States and in which those who are simply paying their taxes today are hit hardest. Switzerland, following the tightening of legislation in the European Member States and the United States, began to put more and more black savers at the door. Luxembourg has been followed. In the meantime, as we have just heard, a temporary committee to investigate Luxleaks is being set up in the European Parliament, also under pressure from the Greens. The problem is more than ever before. I would like to quote my honourable colleague Luk Van Biesen, who I promised him in the Finance Committee in 2010: "If there were more legal certainty, there would be much more regularisation." Minister, we had to wait a long time for it, but I thought that there was finally legal certainty and that, after the regularisation exercise that ended at the end of 2013, the law was clear. The last round of tax amnesty ended then. Until the end of that year, black and grey money could be regularised, even in the event of very serious fraud. From 2014 onwards, this rule can no longer be invoked and the 2008 tax legislation, which, in addition to a fine, also provides for the possibility of legal proceedings and even, if necessary, correct penalties, can be applied. However, it appears that not all the offices of the BBI draw the same conclusions and the return of black money is apparently interpreted in different ways. There's even a shop. Today, tax lawyers in the press report that there is a table with the most advantageous offices, where one can register if one still has to regularize black money. Apparently, the response would be to harmonise, standardize and therefore draft a new directive. Parliament does not know that directive. There is only the law, which I know and which our group has long insisted on. We have also had to swallow several EBA debt securities for this purpose, and this has led to the situation that even very serious tax fraud could still be regularized, in times of very difficult decisions for ordinary citizens! So the basic question is amnesty, regularization or application of the law? If the law is clear, why is a directive still needed? If a directive was needed, what were the irregularities? Then what is the bandwidth, what is the bottom of the fine, to what extent does it deviate from the law? My group would very much like to look at this directive in order to be able to decide for itself what is the difference between what we have all approved here and what is happening at the moment. I have put a number of questions to my interview request. Why was this additional directive needed? What irregularities were there? Who initiated this directive? Has uniform been fined now? In what way does it deviate from the legislation? And so on. Mr Minister, for ten years there have been arrangements for tax amnesty, for ten years now black savers have been able to come to terms, for ten years already they have been encouraged with sometimes very good solder rates, which have even been charged by the BBI itself. We are now 5 February 2015, it seems to me that the solders are now over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u73	Mr President, Minister, after the 2003 DLU, the DLUbis, the DLUter, this is the ghost DLU! It is a tax regularization offered to taxpayers who come to find the tax. Indeed, it is difficult to prevent a fraudulent taxpayer from going to his or her controller because he or she wants to be whitewashed and regularize his or her situation. It is the right of every taxpayer to go and find his controller. What is problematic, minister, is the conditions under which this is done. It seems that, initially, the various tax controls in Belgium applied rules somewhat at the head of the client, which changed from office to office. The ISI wanted to sort this out a little bit. Clearly, today there are rules which are applicable, and we do not know by whom, by the ISI, by the whole FPS Finance, with penalties which, according to the press, go from 25 to 85 %. Minister, on what basis and on what basis are these rules laid down, knowing that sanctions in tax matters already exist in the law, in the Income Tax Code and its implementing orders? We therefore wonder about the legality of this ghost DLU. With regard to sanctions, 25 to 85 per cent, the margin is quite large. Let's take 25%. It is quite surprising that fraudsters can benefit from a 25% penalty, while the law is clear. In case of fraud, it is a minimum of 50% increase penalty. How can penalty percentages be applied below what is provided for in the law? A penalty of 25%, of course, is not much. Minister, I don't know if you ever take the subway. A subway ticket costs two euros. Imagine that you apply the 25% penalty to someone who takes the subway without paying. How much will he pay if he gets caught? If I count correctly, he will pay 2.50 euros: the price of his ticket plus 50 cents penalty. In this case, won't many people risk taking the metro without buying a transport ticket? Yes! You will answer me in the affirmative! This is indeed the problem in tax matters. With ridiculous sanctions of the order of 25 per cent, fraud is encouraged. However, in the metro, the penalty percentage that is applied is as follows: if you do not pay the 2 euros of a transport ticket, the fine will be 100 euros, i.e. a penalty of 5 000 %. So, between 25% and 5,000 percent, there's a margin! In addition to this ghost DLU, we also hear about a DLUquater. A minister of your government, whose name I will keep – he is the oldest minister of this government and he occupied your place a few years ago as Minister of Finance – is considering relaunching a new tax regularization, officially this time! The question should be asked whether fraudsters should not continue to be encouraged! Indeed, the first LUD was unique and this amnesty underwent an operation bis, an operation ter and now it is proposed an operation quater. That's a very bad signal from the government. Minister, these are my questions. 1. So what is the legal or regulatory basis for these regularizations? 2. How many taxpayers have requested these adjustments since the beginning of 2014, since the DLUter ended at the end of 2013? 3. What is the total amount of these regularizations in terms of money laundering, money laundering and penalty? 4. What rules have been applied by the services providing these regularizations, including the penalty rates applied? 5. Since when, Minister, are you aware of the existence of these regularizations? 6. What new rules would the ISI make, according to the press? 7. What are the penalty percentages? I mentioned the rates of 25 to 85 per cent. Do you confirm these rates? What rate does it correspond to? When is the 25% applied? When is the 85% rate applied? 8. What about possible criminal proceedings? 9. What about prescription capital? 10. Is the issue of a new tax regularization being discussed within the government? I would like to know your position on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u74	Collegas, colleagues, thank you for the interventions, bedankt voor de vele interpellaties en vragen. I take the liberty of starting with a question which, as far as I am concerned, is at the heart of our discussion. What should the tax authorities do when spontaneous taxable persons come forward late for notification of income that has not yet been taxed? Should the IRS send those people out for a walk? Should the tax authorities tell taxpayers that he doesn't know how to do that either? Should the IRS decide ad hoc what to do with those files? Should the tax authority, depending on the situation and on the regional management, find a solution at its sole discretion, which will therefore differ by definition, even in the case of similar cases? This is indeed the question of what should be done: what should the tax authorities do with taxpayers who are late in applying for income that has not yet been taxed? The taxiscus is "s' and this is the answer "s' which is required by law to tax the declared income, even if they are made late. Reference may be made to the Constitution for this purpose; reference may be made to the Income Tax Act. Then the question is, how is he supposed to do that? I think we should be able to agree that this is best done in a clear, uniform and organised way. If different administrations in the FPS Finance or different regional boards apply different guidelines, as apparently happened in the past, then there is no consistency in the legislation anymore. Moreover, as has also been shown, the phenomenon of shopping arises, whereby one can try to look up the most advantageous valuation. For this reason, the FPS Finance has decided to bring together the declarations submitted to different administrations with the services of the BBI. As a follow-up, the BBI has developed internal guidelines for itself on how these files should be handled. These directives are, of course, the same for the whole territory. Is it then a matter of making a new LUD? No! It is simply a matter of taxing late-filed income. On the other hand, the tax administration has always received spontaneous amending or amending returns from taxpayers with a view to correcting past omissions. This possibility has therefore always existed. These corrections are based on a will of the taxpayer, therefore in agreement with the taxpayer and requiring full transparency on his part. The term "new" tax regularisation is therefore not appropriate to the problem raised in the various inquiries. Through its legal mission, the ISI intends to treat all spontaneous statements in a uniform manner for everyone and throughout the country. By virtue of its mission and since tax laws are of public policy, the tax administration must tax the income which is declared to it spontaneously. This is a principle of law that has always been applied. The only new element is the need to extend uniform guidelines aimed only at equal treatment and legal certainty. It was rightly said that all the modalities of the last official regularisation round are described in the law, but what that law does not do is determine exactly what needs to be done after that deadline. The administrative directive provides a uniform response to this, as has already been pointed out. Let me illustrate the differences with respect to a.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Contrary to what was the case at the last regularisation, tax-depleting capital cannot be regularised. The fines on top of the amount of taxes due are higher than at the last regularisation. Finally, unlike regularisation, criminal proceedings cannot be bought off a priori. The BBI looks at the file per file, in consultation with the public prosecutor and on the basis of the so-called una-via procedure. You can see that there are substantial differences and more than enough reasons why there is absolutely no organised regularisation in this case. The tax administration applies only the law and from now on tries to do so in a uniform manner. Then there is the question of the publication of the directives. As has already been said, this is about the application of existing legislation. Let it be clear that they are not guidelines for taxpayers or their lawyers. They're internal guidelines for the administration. Lately taxable persons will be able to count on uniform tax treatment everywhere. If we were to publish or communicate the directives, we would only encourage taxpayers to deal with this or not. Only then could we speak of organized and encouraged regularisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u75	Minister, you will understand quite easily that your answers are not satisfactory. I was talking to you about the legality of the tax and I was telling you that taxes are fixed and established by a law passed by Parliament. Derogations too. You are telling me that the administration is only applying the law and applying sanctions, but you are not confirming that these sanctions that it applies in the context of spontaneous declarations are those provided for in the Tax Code and the implementing decrees. I therefore ask you this question because it will come back. Is there any assurance that in unsolicited declarations submitted to the tax administration, the rates of increase of 50 to 200% were applied according to the nature of the offence and the repetition of the offence? Because if the tax administration applies other sanctions, then it acts contrary to the law and what you are presenting to us today is an unconstitutional system, no more or less! That is why I ask you again to have access to this internal circular because we, modest legislators, are interested in replacing it in something that is fundamental, yet that is to establish taxes in accordance with constitutional principles. In addition, you told us that the tax administration is enforcing the law. That's the least we can expect from her! But does she apply the whole law? I didn't hear you about the money laundering law. What about the notification to the Financial Information Processing Unit of records deemed to constitute money laundering? At a time when we want to combat the channels that finance terrorist activities, but there is also drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings and a whole range of other offences, it would be surprising that through such a system, a number of financial flows escape the mechanism you claim to put in place to combat money-laundering. I still don't have an answer either! I am therefore absolutely not satisfied with what you are telling us. I wish we could make sure that our powers are respected. I would therefore like you to be able to commit yourself – and a motion will be tabled to that effect, to which my colleagues Vanvelthoven and Van Hees have joined – to say that this informal regularisation must be stopped. Also to recall that the last one ended on January 1, 2014. To also recall the importance of taking or supporting all initiatives that promote the exchange of information between States and strengthen the fight against tax fraud. Through this motion, we also expect the government to strengthen legislation and the departments in charge of this fight against tax fraud, in particular the ISI (Special Inspectorate of Taxes), to maintain the level of penalties provided for by law, no more or less, on which, at this stage, we have no assurance, including the possibility of criminal prosecution where this is justified. In conclusion, let this become an opportunity for you to finally strengthen this government project, which today, unfortunately, shines with its indigence in the fight against tax fraud and financial crime. I do not forget that we had a scoreboard in the fight against major tax fraud; you decided not to pursue it any more when extraordinary work had been done under the previous government. It was also with the collaboration of other parties that have now joined you in the majority, but that seem to no longer want to fight tax fraud effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u76	Minister, you have only increased my concern, especially by your choice of words. You have spoken of lately declared income, debt securities and past liabilities. We are talking about tax fraud! These are people, businesses, taxpayers who knowingly, knowingly and willingly have not declared income, have evaded tax because they have moved abroad and are now afraid because of the measures. Now they are coming back to their knees, and now you are talking in Parliament about forgetfulness and lately declared income. Minister, this contrasts with what your party colleague says about the unemployed. These are people who have not deliberately lost their jobs, who are involuntaryly unemployed. Those are the people who must be punished according to your party, by giving them no more benefits after a certain period of time. That is the difference in tone that the N-VA uses for the unemployed and, on the other hand, for large fraudsters. I'm getting mad about that. What affects me is that even the interpretation of the clear law should not be known here. The law is clear. The law says when which fines and which tax increases should be applied. If your administration applies this differently everywhere, your administration must be brought to order. We know very clearly who should be punished when. We also know when to inform the public. In all these cases we are talking about today, the public prosecutor must be informed. The parole board, together with the administration, should consider whether a case should be brought to justice or not. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we have no choice but to urge the Minister that, as a legislative authority and as a supervisory body of the executive, we should at least have access to the circular so that we can remove the doubts that exist today about the correct application of the law. Conversely, it would be a shame if this circular meant that there was indeed a permanent tax regularisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u77	Mr President, Minister, in redrafting the question, you are asking what the tax authorities have to deal with applications for regularization. It simply has to apply the law, i.e. to identify the origin of the funds, which is a problem in the context of tax regularization. Labour income is not taxed as capital income. The tax authorities must apply the tax rates and not accept too easily that all returned funds should be regularised as income from capital without questioning their origin. It must apply significant penalties which give a societal signal that fraud is serious, that it is not accepted by our authority and, where appropriate, transmit problematic cases to the Justice, in the framework of the existing procedure via the Financial Information Processing Unit (FTIC). Minister, I can join you when you plead for the same treatment of this type of case, when you plead against the form of shopping that is to approach one tax controller rather than another in order to obtain the best conditions for regularisation. The difficulty lies in the fact that, as parliamentarians, we are not in a position to control the text of this directive, to ensure, as we do systematically in the case of various services – I refer you to the hearings of the members of the ruling service – that the law is properly and fully implemented. On the other hand, I am not really reassured, given the lightness with which you responded to a journalist who asked you about the system, given your way of finding it quite normal for this type of regularization to multiply, given the secondment with which you consider the fight against tax fraud. For my part, I believe that, as parliamentarians, we must have access to this type of document, that we must be able to monitor the way in which this regularisation is taking place. In the area of taxation, I expect you to have concrete words and actions to combat fraud. We must stop hypocrisy in the fight against tax fraud. We need to give other signals than those that previous governments or you yourself have given since you were set up, namely that it would not be serious not to pay its taxes. The State must provide itself with sufficient resources to ensure that the tax is properly collected. This would be the first of the answers to the budgetary difficulties we are facing, to the inability to ensure social cohesion and to invest in the economy of the future. This would be the first step for a real tax shift. The concept we are defending in the area of tax shift is to give more tax justice. Tax justice is a queen when the tax owing is paid. You have not reassured us of your willingness to entrust this mission to the FPS Finance services. Therefore, together with my colleague Almaci, we are tabling our own motion for a recommendation, not only on this directive but also – and for this reason the presence of the Secretary of State is important – on the fight against tax fraud, which, in terms of legal means (you do the opposite on this point) and human resources, must be your government's priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u78	Mr President, Minister, we had to wait, but by the end of your speech it became clearer. The stinger was effective in closing your answer. At our request to share this directive with us, you said that you cannot publish it because taxpayers and their lawyers would otherwise be able to weigh what they do or do not do. Either it's obvious or it's not. Either that directive indicates a clear direction, or it has a bandwidth. If it has a bandwidth, we have a problem. That statement, Minister, says that there is a bandwidth. Then I have a problem. Then our group has a problem, because you refer to the law and the law is the law. The articles in the WIB 92 relating to the declaration are Article 351 on the assessment of duties, Article 342 on the flat-rate minimum for economic operators and professions, Article 354 on the extended tax period and Article 444 on tax increases. That article contains the fines, the percentages: in the case of a forgettance, between 10% and 20%, in the case of fraud from 50% to 200 %. There is no interpretation possible. There's no bandwidth. Minister, if that is the law, what does the directive do? Does it run out of the law? Does she extend the law? Is she moving on or not? In the one sentence you said there, the problem lies. We held a debate in this Chamber in transparency in which we could disagree, where everyone voted according to the position of their party, but that law is clear. Anything that goes beyond that law or puts another exercise first must pass through Parliament. Our question remains. If the law is the law and if there is a directive that you do not want to publish because it could give people ideas, then we have a problem. The tax lawyers focus on the law. If they find that something can be chipped, they Either you leave margin It is very clear that you are in Parliament, and as Minister of Justice you were a journalist in your previous life but you are now Minister of Justice must abide by the law. So anything that goes beyond that doesn't count. We repeat our question. Either you withdraw the directive because it does not comply with the law, or you follow the law. Give us that directive so that we can at least do our job if you do not intend to.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u79	Minister, I asked you ten specific questions, which you knew in advance. You answered one of those ten questions. It's better than nothing! But in school, you would have got a score of 1/10, a mediocre result. You tell us, "I don't want to communicate so I don't want to encourage this tax regularization." Do you seriously think what you're saying, minister? It is clear that fraudsters and their lawyers will soon be aware of the new rules in force. On the other hand, legislators, parliamentarians who must control the government, are not entitled to be informed of these rules. It's weird to say the least! It's all the more weird that you don't tell the legislator what appears to be a violation of the law. Applying a 25% penalty to fraudsters while the law says black on white that it is 50% minimum, it is necessarily in violation of the law. It is not only a violation of the law, it is also a violation of the Constitution. I will quote two articles of the Constitution. Article 170: "No tax may be imposed except by law." Here, obviously, there are rules that come out of we don't know where, but in any case not from the law. Article 172: "No tax privilege may be established." This is a long way from the point of view, Minister! Given that Belgium is already one of the European champions in tax evasion, this new measure is not going to improve things, that is to say the least. Unfortunately, this is in line with a comprehensive policy that is at least questionable, since the only concrete measure adopted by Mrs Sleurs, Secretary of State for the fight against tax fraud, is to increase the authorised cash payment from EUR 3 000 to EUR 7 000. The only concrete measure in the fight against tax fraud is a measure in favour of tax fraud! Diamonds thank you! There is no tax privilege, but the European Commission is targeting Belgium at present for rulings that are clearly in the view of the Tax Privileges Commission. Finally, Minister, I have only one possible conclusion: you are the government of fraudsters!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u80	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, according to the Socialist Members, we are using a wrong choice of words. That choice of words was made by you. You yourself have considered the interviews as questions about the new tax regularisation. The Minister was very clear. It's not about tax regularization, it's about spontaneous correction. I do not see where we would now make the wrong choice of words. I can imagine that this has been settled on the socialist side, as the real regularization rounds were organised by you yourself. The problem now is that no uniform rules have been drawn up. What's that gonna do today? There is arbitrariness because not every tax inspector applies the rules in the same way. We want transparency. We want to ensure that everyone applies the same rates in the same way. That is what our Minister is proposing here. I think we can only welcome such a system. That makes sense, doesn't it? No one can oppose the correct and uniform application of tax rules. That is the intention of the Minister's statements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u81	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, just as we are now, the beginning of this week began to mess around on the left side of the opposition, also on the extreme left side. Together with my group, I was wondering if I should be worried if something was going on. Suddenly, unacceptable tax practices are tolerated? What does a good file manager do? Let's see what's really going on. Our group, which is also committed to the issue of tax fraud, is asking whether it will be cheaper to get rid of it. No, the Minister has just said that the fines are significantly higher than in the past period. I understand, of course, that it is painful for the PS that this majority is calling the shots more than ever before and is doing more to tackle the tax sinners. I also understand that the sp.a is particularly charmed by the fiscal initiatives of this government, even to the extent that it is still organising today a press conference on the tax shift, full of concepts that we have launched around the mobility budget, the added value tax and so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u82	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u83	There's only the truth that hurts. What's going on, anyway? What exactly is the meaning of this whole fuss? I believe that this is about the honorable intentions of the administration. We want equal treatment for taxpayers, a dossier which we also discussed recently in committee. Of course, it is not a question of extending the tax amnesty in one form or another. Now there are different practices, no new law or tax regularisation. Of course, every file has to be handled. Just now I heard the opposition screaming about the law, the law and the law. That seems to me to be real, for people with a lot of political experience, an oversimplification of every legal and political topicality. If it were so easy, we would not need any circular, no internal recommendation, no royal decision or any ministerial decision. Those who insist on the law, therefore, make complete abstraction of any form of interpretation of any file. Today is no better off. In the proposal on una via Mr Terwingen and our group, we can opt for an administrative procedure or for a judicial procedure. The Minister has just confirmed that these files will be dealt with in consultation, so that any escape from criminal proceedings is ruled out. The opposition is now asking about these internal provisions. But when hunting is open, we are not going to announce the strategy in advance to any tax sinners? However, I do not exclude, in the context of public administration, that there can be a degree of transparency in this regard. The question of the strategy, in black and white, of how the fraudsters will be dealt with, seems to me to be very brief. An end date for tax regularisation was set. That deadline is now being respected for the first time, my entire Laaouej, because no new law will be introduced when the budget is changed. There won't be a new last time with this government. Finally, it is about clarity. The responsibility is taken up and it is good to know exactly where it lies within the administration of the FPS Finance. There's no impunity. The Directive guarantees equal treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u84	Minister, we will never prevent a taxpayer from coming forward spontaneously to regularize his situation; we will not close our eyes – that would be the climax – to those who are willing to put themselves in order, but, as you said, this is not a new DLU. In fact, unlike those who questioned you, I do not dispute the existence of this directive. That is true, a directive has the advantage of ensuring a form of uniqueness, jurisprudence and not dealing with cases at the head of the client. Nevertheless, Minister, I expected you to table this directive on the benches of Parliament. This would clearly have had the merit of removing any ambiguity about its content. In particular, this would have ensured that the penalty regime would be fully implemented; it is important! The objective is obviously not to regularize by passing the sponge. To show this directive would also have had the merit of clearly reminding all departments that in the event of suspicion, of any doubt, any file must obviously be forwarded to the public prosecutor's office. I believe that you must remove this ambiguity and forward this directive if not on the benches of our plenary sitting at least in the Finance Committee. There is another point that I would like to address which I think is even more important. In our view, this is a problem of yet another magnitude. It is not just this money that comes into the State's coffers from all those who want to regularise it that we will face the problem, we will track down the fraudsters and we will ensure a real fight against tax fraud. For us, the real problem, even more important, is the government's lack of ambition in tracking down and fighting organised tax fraud. We've talked about it a lot. Moreover, the best evidence is the low level of budgetary provision. We'll get back to it. In this case, for this government, for the majority, the urgency is to develop tools and apply them in a real hunt against big tax fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u85	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Ahmed Laaouej, Peter Vanvelthoven and Marco Van Hees and read as follows: "The Chamber, ayant entendu les interpellations de MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Peter Vanvelthoven, Georges Gilkinet, Mme Meyrem Almaci et M. Marco Van Hees and the Minister of Finance's response, asks the government 1. confirm the final shutdown of the DLU device system. This Parliament had acted that after 1 January 2014, there would no longer be a declaration of release. The latter operation, which was launched in July 2013, was therefore final. As a reminder, repatriation involved normal income taxation plus an increase of 15, 20 or 35 per cent; 2. to support all initiatives that promote the exchange of tax information between States and strengthen the fight against tax fraud; 3. to strengthen the legislation and departments of the ISI responsible for combating major tax fraud and maintaining the level of penalties legally provided for today and to ensure the possibility of criminal prosecution where justified; 4. to make the fight against tax fraud a priority and to implement the recommendations of the committee of inquiry aimed at combating major tax fraud; 5. present every three months the scoreboard for assessing progress in the implementation of these recommendations; 6. to provide any notes and/or circulars of the administration dealing with regularization." A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Peter Vanvelthoven and Mr Marco Van Hees and reads as follows: "The Chamber, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Peter Vanvelthoven, Mr Georges Gilkinet, Mrs Meyrem Almaci and Mr Marco Van Hees and the answer of the Minister of Finance, asks the government 1. confirm the definitive discontinuation of the EBA scheme. This Parliament had noted that there would no longer be a liberating declaration after 1 January 2014. The last campaign, which started in July 2013, thus had a final character. Note: the repatriated money was taxed at the standard rate plus an increase of 15, 20% or 35%; 2. to support all initiatives to promote the international exchange of tax information and to step up the fight against tax fraud; 3. strengthen the anti-fraud legislation and strengthen the services of the BBI responsible for combating major tax fraud, and maintain the penalties currently provided for in the law at the same level and allow criminal prosecution where justified; 4. to make the fight against tax fraud a policy priority and to implement the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry into the Major Tax Fraud Files; 5. present a scoreboard every three months to evaluate progress in implementing those recommendations; 6. to provide any notes and/or correspondence from the administration relating to the regularisation." A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Meyrem Almaci and Mr. Georges Gilkinet and reads as follows: "The Chamber, ayant entendu les interpellations de MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Peter Vanvelthoven, Georges Gilkinet, Mme Meyrem Almaci et M. Marco Van Hees and the Minister of Finance's response, asks the government 1. to transmit the directive immediately to Parliament; 2. to make the fight against tax fraud a priority, through the full implementation of the recommendations of the Special Commission on Tax Fraud and by improving the legal and human resources of the FPS Finance; 3. ensure, with regard to income taxation, the identification of the origin of the funds, the application of legal rates and penalties, if any, in the event of late reporting; 4. to ensure the best possible cooperation on financial crime between the police, justice and finance services but also with foreign administrations in order to enable the prosecution and criminalization of fraudsters; 5. to go back to the austerity measures decided upon, which severely affect the most fragile of our society, and to decide and implement a shift tax making more use of capital income in order to contribute to fiscal balance, social cohesion policies and investment in the future economy." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Meyrem Almaci and Mr Georges Gilkinet and reads as follows: "The Chamber, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Peter Vanvelthoven, Mr Georges Gilkinet, Mrs Meyrem Almaci and Mr Marco Van Hees and the answer of the Minister of Finance, asks the government 1. to deliver this Directive immediately to Parliament; 2. to make the fight against tax fraud a real priority through the full implementation of the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Major Tax Fraud Files and the strengthening of legal and human resources in the FPS Finance; 3. to examine where the funds come from as regards the tax on income and to apply the statutory rates to them and, where appropriate, to impose fines in the event of late declaration; 4. to ensure the best possible cooperation between police, justice and finance services, as well as with foreign administrations, in the field of financial crime, in order to prosecute and punish fraudsters; 5. to return to the savings measures taken, which hit the most vulnerable in our society, and to implement a tax shift that will burden the income from capital more heavily, which can contribute to achieving the budgetary balance and to implementing a policy of social cohesion and investment in tomorrow's economy. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Veerle Wouters and by Messrs. Hendrik Vuye, Patrick Dewael, Denis Ducarme et Servais Verherstraeten. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Veerle Wouters and Mr Hendrik Vuye, Mr Patrick Dewael, Mr Denis Ducarme and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u86	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: 721: Hendrik Vuye, Peter Luykx, Denis Ducarme, Kattrin Jadin, Servais Verherstraeten, Sarah Claerhout, Patrick Dewael, Nele Lijnen, Peter De Roover 300: Dirk Van der Maelen, Alain Top 555: Dirk Van der Maelen 626: Gwenaëlle Grovonius, Laurette Onkelinx, Jean-Marc Delizée, Stéphane Crusnière, Philippe Blanchart 652: Benoit Hellings, Wouter De Vriendt, Jean-Marc Nollet, Kristof Calvo, Zakia Khattabi, Evita Willaert, Anne Dedry, Stefaan Van Hecke, Muriel Gerkens, Georges Gilkinet 718: Georges Dallemagne, Catherine Fonck, Benoît Lutgen, Christian Brotcorne, Francis Delperée, Benoît Dispa, Vanessa Matz, Isabelle Poncelet, Melchior Wathelet 719: Olivier Maingain, Véronique Caprasse I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these seven motions for resolutions. I propose that you devote one discussion to these seven motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u87	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (721/4) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (721/4) The title in Dutch was changed by the Committee in a draft resolution for the recognition of the Palestinian State by Belgium." The title in Dutch has been amended by the committee in the name of 'voorstel van resolutie'. for the recognition of the Palestinian State by Belgium '. The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u88	Mr President, I would like to refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution that we are putting to the vote with the four majority parties concerns a more than interesting matter, for three reasons. First of all, she's about world peace. We all know what powder keg the Middle East is. Secondly, it is also really about internal peace in our own country, because the subject, namely the Palestinian cause and the wars and conflicts that rage there, undoubtedly lives in our cities. Thirdly, for our group it is a very important resolution because it deals with the right to self-determination for the Palestinian people, within the framework of a two-state solution. We must take account of the international political context and ask how we can make a useful contribution and transcend the debate in the gallery. Of course, the possibilities for this house, when it comes to world peace, are limited, but that does not mean that we must allow our frustration over the events there and the slow peace process to flow further into powerlessness. The powerlessness of this Chamber is perhaps even an apparent powerlessness, because we are in favour of looking at it within the European Union's broad framework. It is interesting to point out that in the past it has proved that the United States is taking our decisions from the European Union rather than taking the lead. Let me give an example of the recognition of Palestine as an acting member of the United Nations, where we have played the leading role with the European Union. That is the way we want to continue. The playing field on the ground is a field of mistrust and inequality. Let us not forget that it is about Israel, as a recognised state, and Palestine, that it does not have that status today. Empathy is more than appropriate here. At the same time, we must be careful to encourage the peace process and not to block it by means of unsuspecting measures. It is careful to act that leads us, because we enter a porcelain cabinet. It cannot be the intention that this house of extremists on one side or the other of the barrier should play into the hands of this very delicate process. That is why the content of the resolution contains five important points. Firstly, as fundamental supporters of the people's right to self-determination, we are very pleased that we can clearly recognise the Palestinian State with the group. Secondly, we choose smart timing. This means that recognition becomes part of a process and no longer the reward after its completion. Thirdly, we call those responsible and the responsibilities on both sides and give them an explicit name. As we, on the one hand, understand the sensitivities, both on the Israeli side and on the Palestinian side, on the other hand, we must also dare to mention the excesses on both sides by name. Fourthly, contrary to what has been suggested about the resolution, who reads it correctly, we do not have any fixed conditions, but we do take into account the context as it develops diplomatically. Fifthly, we are strongly in favour of the EU framework. Our resolution is therefore in line with what has been adopted in other Member States on this matter in recent weeks, including in the European Parliament, for example. A similar signal in the various parliaments is, of course, much more powerful. The motion for a resolution, and anyone who denies it, is a blind sighted one, is an important and unseen one. We are counting on her to have a snowball effect and yet re-launch the deadlocked peace process. This issue should be able to transcend party politics, ladies and gentlemen. I have also called for this in committee, but unfortunately the debate that took place there has taught us that the opposition wants to move in a different direction. The opposition agreed to the dress of the self-declared monopoly on the great moral level. She chose a number for the gallery. I think we should call that a sad attempt to score cheap points on the hood of the people of Palestine and Israel. I deeply regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u90	Mr President, Mr De Roover, when a political debate is difficult, people sometimes accuse their opponents of political games; that is a well-known rhetorical trick. However, I honestly do not understand where you are getting that from.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u91	You attended the discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u92	Maybe we disagree. This has nothing to do with political games. We are convinced and we stand ready to tell you what we think of this resolution, which you are defending as a major leader. You are the first author of this resolution and so the N-VA took the lead in getting a resolution adopted that is very vague and woolly. Your resolution gives the government far too much freedom to do what it wants. I do not want to accuse you of being naive, because I do not want to play political games, but I do want to refer to the facts. If this Parliament approves your vague, meaningless resolution, it is primarily a question for the Foreign Minister, Mr Reynders. I would therefore like to refer to the words of our Foreign Minister from a committee report of 19 November 2014. It is very clear what Minister Reynders thinks about a possible recognition of Palestine and about this resolution. I quote from the report: Belgium has always supported the two-state solution and the establishment of a sovereign Palestinian State. This position of principle does indeed mean, in fine terms, at the end of a negotiation process, the recognition of a Palestinian State. A few moments later, the Minister also said: "After both parties have agreed on the main points that form part of the conflict. In other words, Mr De Roover, the Belgian Government does not intend to recognise Palestine at all, unless we, as a Parliament, clearly request it. This question, in order to do so unconditionally and as quickly as possible, is set out in the resolution of my group and of a number of other opposition groups. You give wooliness to a Belgian government. You impose a number of conditions and that's it. You say that the Belgian Government can consider a number of elements: the European consensus, consultation and so on. In fact, you are giving the Belgian Government a free pass to do nothing at all. This is particularly disappointing for a People's Nationalist Party, which favours the right to self-determination.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u93	Mr De Vriendt, I would like to record that you disagree. The fact that we have a little more faith in this government than you will surprise no one. I don't think you've told me anything shocking about that. In committee, we have never denied you or other people the right to express a different opinion. What we are talking about here is that you give the impression that you are on the side of the great morale and that the other side is apparently wringing in all sorts of turns to produce a woolly text. I am surprised that you want to give that impression, because either you are blind or you have not read the text. Perhaps the debate will take long enough for you to be able to take note of the resolution as we have tabled and for you to agree with the proposal that we are putting forward by the end of this discussion under the motto of progressive understanding. You will probably repeat the word "woolly" on the speaker's seat on a regular basis, under the motto: if people say very often that something is woolly, the sheep will think it is true. I can tell you that those who are prepared to look at the resolution and do not refer to other texts, because I believe that we will vote on the text as it stands, see that this resolution goes far beyond what has ever been possible in this Chamber. We have, with this majority, been able to do what you could not have done in previous legislatures. For example, the sp.a has never been able to achieve a majority, Mr Van der Maelen, who approved such a far-reaching text. I would have liked it very much if you had referred to earlier times, when you were at the helm, if you were able to find a majority at that time to approve such a far-reaching text that at the same time does not have the subtlety of an elephant in a porcelain shop.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u94	Mr De Roover, you probably forget that we have taken on our responsibilities. We have worked to ensure that Palestine is recognized as a member of Unesco, to be recognized as a non-member observer of the United Nations. You're still smoking the majority by putting forward completely unbearable untruths!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u95	I am very pleased that you are referring to great steps forward, but we are taking a step further. We go beyond what you refer to, however woolly this may be called.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u96	Mr President, I would like to propose to Mr. From Roover a little exercise. Mr De Roover, we know your party's ambitions for recognition and independence. I would like to invite you to put yourself in our place and to replace the terms Palestinian State with Flemish Region and to apply a number of conditions as ludicrous as those you formulate today. Then put it back into debate and see if then you would not be a little more sensitive to the arguments brought about this day! I am indeed surprised by your group's position when we look historically at the positions you have taken and your lightness in accepting the conditions laid down on the table for Palestine. Put yourself in a different perspective, imagine conditions that are impossible to achieve, and you will understand our position!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u97	Mr De Roover, I want to support you. Mr. De Vriendt said your resolution was blurred. You don't agree with him. I agree with you. Your resolution is not blurred. This is a resolution not to recognize the Palestinian State. Simply!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u98	I would like to read a quote: 'I support the initiative that the right of self-determination of the peoples of Europe within the European Union should be recognised as a fundamental human right and that all European institutions should support all European citizens and their nations if they wish to apply this right'. The author of the quote is Peter De Roover. Mr De Roover, may I ask you where you can see the difference between Kosovars and Catalans who call on their right to self-determination and Palestinians? Can you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u99	Mr van der Maelen and the Members who have spoken, there are no more dangerous politicians than those who think they are working in a laboratory. We are active in a real world with a real context. You are, if you do not take that into account, someone who is rather playing for the domestic galleries, who wants to score on the top of the problem. If you are blind, ladies and gentlemen, to the specific context, not the Kosovo context, but the context of the Middle East with the very broad and historically separate problem, then you will understand that some caution here is much more important than the production of cheap numbers and finding laboratory truths, which are not useful in reality and have an opposite effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u100	I will respond later, but you ask the opposition to read the proposal for a majority resolution. Do you remember that, in the debate in committee, I pointed out a contradiction between the Dutch and French versions, rather than a detail? The Dutch text said that an amendment at the 1967 borders had to be made in consultation, while it said in French "and agreed." Mr De Roover, do you know what that means? The text is written in the Foreign Office. The text was written by the MR and the N-VA swallowed it. You wanted to enter the government so badly that you put away your own values and principles. That and nothing else is the truth!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u101	Mr van der Maelen, your excitement is inversely proportional to the content of your speech. We have written a text together with the majority of my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u102	The MR...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u103	As you are following the debates here, you will have already noticed that the MR is part of this majority. The MR is fully in there, just like the N-VA. I'm very glad you put the quote forward. I am very proud, in favour of the fundamental right of self-determination of the peoples, that we can approve it here today, that we can put forward this principle here for a broad majority in the Chamber, and I invite you to join us in this very sensitive political matter. I will show you in one clear sentence the difference between the approach to your resolutions and ours. While the opposition continues to cling to the easy what-question we have considered the much more difficult how-question. It is very comfortable not to do that exercise, but we also take responsibility to look at the how-question and not to tie ourselves up in purely theoretical big concepts. One reproach we accept: this resolution suffers from a manifest lack of one-sidedness. The question of whether the N-VA wears a yarmulke or an arafat scarf is a problem that we wish to overcome. It is necessary that, in this very delicate situation, which affects both world peace and very often the debates in our own streets, in our big cities, we influence to a large extent the mind in camps can and dare transcend. That is the essence of this resolution. I would once again like to invite the opposition to take this very important step, across the borders of majority and opposition, in the Chamber. Then the signal will be all the more powerful. If you continue to lock yourself up in your grand right of principle, without wondering how you will realize it, we will adopt this resolution by the normal majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u104	Mr De Roover, you agree with me that in your proposal for a resolution you do not demand the rapid and unconditional recognition of the Palestinian State. You're putting a reservation on that. Let me give you an example. You ask the government to take into account the existence of a fully-fledged Palestinian government with authority across the Palestinian territory. The latter is not in the hands of the Palestinian Government, but is blocked by Israel's annexation. What you are asking for is simply not possible; it is completely unfeasible and illusory. Apart from that, I should like to ask you what else your party intends to do to persuade Israel to respect international law. We do, however, call in our text for the rapid and unconditional recognition of the Palestinian State, because we believe that recognition will give oxygen to the debate. We believe that it would be a very strong political signal towards Israel. It must be done with the violations of international law. Mr De Roover, do you think Israel is violating international law or not? In the long term, I do not really know what reactionary position the N-VA is taking on the conflict between Israel and Palestine today. I would like to point out that even our Minister for Foreign Affairs, Didier Reyners, speaks effectively about violations of international law by Israel. Do you share that view of the MR and Didier Reynders, or do you think there's nothing going on at all? If you think there is a problem, what are you proposing to get out of the impasse in the Middle East? What could a country like Belgium do? We are talking here about the recognition of Palestine, but we can also put some extra pressure on Israel, for example, by labelling Israeli products from illegal settlements or by banning imports of these products. Mr De Roover, you are dealing with the opposition here with a certain dedain, but we are certainly looking for creative levers and instruments. That's why I'm asking about your instruments. What can Belgium do to get out of the impasse in the Middle East unless you comply with the status quo? In the latter case, the time has come for this position of the N-VA to be clearly put on the table here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u105	Mr De Roover, I would like to react and register falsely with regard to an element which you have mentioned and which I do not want it to remain here as it stands. You said we can't choose between the kippa or the Palestinian scarf. In doing so, Mr. De Roover, you suggest that this is not a political issue. The kippa is a sign of belonging to a religious community. So it's not about choosing between the kippa and the Palestinian scarf. The Israeli question before us is an issue of Israeli politics, not a question of belonging to a religious community. I am therefore wrong about this choice that you are imposing on us in this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u106	Ma'am, I'll answer the last one right away. I can reassure you. Sculptures are metaphorical. It is indeed about a political conflict, in which we are just now, and then I come to Mr De Vriendt, not choosing between and expressing no preference for what would be called the Israeli or the Palestinian cause. After all, a solution can only be a solution if we can overcome that division, as the whole content of the resolution indicates. Mr De Vriendt, you just mentioned a well-known political technique. You used one, too. If your arguments are up, you will start with a very different theme, such as labelling or international law. These are very important issues, but this resolution does not mention them either in your version or in ours. It's not about this. We shall be very happy to intervene in the next debate on this subject. As far as the violation of international law is concerned, let me reassure you. Our reactionary N-VA has no other standards than the rest of the world, and we are of the same opinion as, for example, our foreign minister. What I find very strong is your reference to our hope and the element that we want to take into account, namely that the whole of Palestinian territory... I refer to the quote you give. At first, that's not a condition. You must read the text as it stands. It is an element within which the diplomatic freedom of this government will be exercised. I would like to comment briefly on that. How the hell can we table a blind resolution? "Let's recognize Palestine." "Let's recognize Palestine." "Let's recognize Palestine." You may score with that here, but not in Palestine itself. That doesn't help that case a millimeter ahead. You may be surprised, but we are talking about the Palestinians' case on the ground. The blind pronunciation of recognition does not help them move forward. What is the point of a Palestinian State if there is no government capable of carrying out its normal activities throughout its territory? You are starting a Palestinian State which, in its birthbed itself, has everything from a failed state, a kind of new Somalia, a country where no decent civil development can take place. You opt for blind recognition of something that is not viable if we put it out of context. We are not playing that game, Mr De Vriendt, no matter how beautiful that may sound to those who approach the matter simplistically. You cannot seduce me, therefore, that is the whole content of this resolution as well, to that kind of black-and-white thinking. We have made a choice in the resolution which takes into account both the correct and fair concerns of Israel and the correct and fair concerns of Palestine and the Palestinians, and which does not go beyond unsophisticated one-sidedness. I do not think that you are going to advance the debate if you stick to that black and white approach that we have chosen to leave with this resolution. We ask the government to recognise the Palestinian State within an area of diplomatic development. That is the fundamental difference of opinion. If we cannot convince you of this, we will only vote in favour of this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u107	You can also include your comments in your own speech later, Mr De Vriendt.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u108	Mr President, I will be very brief. I would like to point out to the people who are following this debate or who will read it later in the report that Mr De Roover has not answered my question as to how his N-VA Group intends to increase pressure on Israel, so that they respect international law and a start can be made to the Middle East impasse. We believe that an unconditional recognition of Palestine is a lever for this. We are ready for an open debate, but I await your alternative. What are your proposals so far? I've already asked on the committee. I asked you today. I haven't heard from the N-VA about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u109	Mr De Vriendt, you have heard answers, but you have not listened. Hearing and listening are two verbs with a different meaning. In this resolution we say very clearly, unlike in the past, that the recognition of the Palestinian State is not the candy, not the cherry on the cake when it is baked. We have now said that this could be part of the process. In other words, no party has the monopoly to decide when to take that step. If you do not understand that difference from earlier on this resolution, then this debate will not make sense, because then you will not listen, nor will it make sense to drag candles and glasses on.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 5 February 2015 could have been a historic date for Belgian diplomacy and for our Assembly. This could have been the day when the Belgian Parliament, like so many others in Europe, adopted a text opening the way for the recognition of the State of Palestine. In the end, it won't be. Instead, we are being asked today to take a decision on a text of the majority that de facto prevents our Kingdom from recognizing the State of Palestine. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, do you really think we can't read a device? Do you really believe that it was enough to put the words "recognition" and "Palestine" next to each other in the title of a resolution so that those who call for recognition in Belgium, Europe, Palestine and Israel do not realize the game of fools to which you have given yourself? With your text, there is simply no recognition! How else can we explain the weakness of this text? How can we explain otherwise that you have rejected our proposals, which call for a formal, immediate and unconditional recognition of Palestine? Or how can you explain your rejection in committee of our overall amendment, based on the text adopted by the Brussels Parliament, which, without any ambiguity, called for recognition of the State of Palestine? This text of the Brussels Parliament was co-signed by the PS, sp.a, Ecolo-Groen, FDF, cdH and even CD&V. In this connection, you will allow me to question the political coherence of your group on this major international topic.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u111	This hypocritical position is simply not up to the constructive and proactive position that our country has always advocated for a balanced solution. This text, if adopted, would, in fact, be one of the poorest resolutions adopted by the parliament of a Member State of the European Union. If the majority confirms its choice and rejects our texts and amendments, it will miss an opportunity to contribute to the revival of the peace process. However, the conflict in the Middle East has been undermining international relations, the stability of this neighbouring region of Europe and, above all, the lives of the Palestinian and Israeli populations for decades now. This is a global source of undeniable radicalisation. In the face of this ongoing conflict, Belgium has always been committed to an approach that respects international law – which is important to us, Mr. De Roover – and which must aim at the recognition of the right to self-determination of the Palestinian people, including the end of the occupation of the Palestinian territories and the right to security of the State of Israel and its inhabitants. This approach must be the same for all parties involved. In that context, our country must demand that all those parties respect international law. It is in this sense that the acts of violence perpetrated by all parties, as well as the continuation of settlement policy, must be condemned, which undermine any chance of resumption and conclusion of a negotiation process leading to peace. My group has repeatedly reiterated that only the urgent and effective resumption of negotiations with a view to reaching a solution based on the coexistence of the two States, the State of Israel and the independent, democratic, one-tenant, sovereign and viable State of Palestine, living side by side in peace and security for all, can be a long-term solution. It was in this spirit that my group tabled a motion for a resolution with no ambiguity with a principal, clear, readable and unconditional request that was unrealistic or subject to interpretation, namely the request that the federal government formally recognize the State of Palestine next to the State of Israel. That's all. We are thus following the recent parliamentary initiatives of several European countries such as Great Britain, Ireland and France. Sweden, as you know, was the first European country not to emerge from the former USSR to courageously take the step of formal recognition of Palestine as a State. Discussions have also taken place in all the parliaments of the federated entities in an approach as proactive as it is balanced by the adoption of the various texts. We are well aware that these initiatives will not bring about any immediate upheaval that would bring a definitive solution to a complex historical conflict at the moment. But today it is a matter of making our contribution to the conclusion of a peaceful solution by refusing to assist in the destruction of any future of lasting peace in the region. It is at the federal level that it is now necessary to recognize a state, and it is therefore legitimately upon us that all eyes are turned. To recognize Palestine now would be a strong diplomatic act in the leadership of Belgium, supporting the peace process and the principle of a negotiated and definitive solution between the parties, a full and equal accountability of both sides. Belgium would thus confirm its positive role in promoting peace and equity in this peace process, a process that has not yet been successful and whose lack of a two-State structural solution has led to tensions, human suffering and regional and global destabilization. Today, despite successive negotiation processes, we must collectively assume responsibility for our failures. We have so far failed to put an end to colonization, to provide a satisfactory response to the security of the Israeli people and to meet the legitimate aspirations of the Palestinian people. Too much blood has already sunk in this conflict. It is therefore essential today to find other strategies, other ways. We believe that this recognition will make possible the laying of the necessary milestones for positive developments allowing for respect by all for international law. I want to be clear on this point. To criticize some of Israel's policies is not to be against that State or to recognize its right to security and to guarantee the protection of its civilians. It is simply a requirement of this rule of law, a member of the United Nations, that it respect international law. At the PS, our approach has always been consistent in all international situations. We stand resolutely for diplomacy, proportionality, and above all against all the double standards of the international community.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u112	No State is above international law, whatever it may be. This position is, moreover, the one Belgium has always defended. Belgium has always defended the importance of respect for the rules of international law as well as the recognition of the legitimate right of the Palestinian people to self-determination, whether during Belgium's vote under the previous government in 2012 in favour of Palestine's accession to observer status as a non-member State in the United Nations, during the vote in 2011 for Palestine's admission as a member State of UNESCO or, in 2011, during the vote in the Senate on the motion for a resolution calling for recognition of the State of Palestine. This commitment by Belgium for a contribution to a peaceful solution to the conflict, unfortunately, you risk stopping it clearly because, as a leading force in peace, I do not find it in the resolution before us today by the majority in this plenary session, after very long circumvolutions. Unnecessary Circulations if it is to give birth to such a mediocre text! It is true that some in the majority seem to have more courageous positions than others, since the CD&V, again it, abstained on our recommendation proposing the formal recognition of the Palestinian State, a recommendation that had been rejected by all other groups of the majority. The text of the majority is like making a lot of noise for not much. If the press were to say, at the time of its publication, "Belgium will recognize Palestine", it is because it had not yet been well aware of the measures contained in this resolution. But, in reality, talking about obstacles to the recognition of Palestine would be fairer about that text. In my opinion, and according to the main organisations which are attentive to this question, your text, your vision of recognition is only a glamour whose materialisation is subject to the will of the Belgian government, Minister Reynders and above all to the white-sing of the Israeli government. You want to wait for the right time? For you, this will never be the right time! A unanimous position of the European Union may never exist. You know that well. However, ladies and gentlemen, it is not too late! You can still adopt the overall amendment of the PS, sp.a, Ecolo-Groen and FDF, replacing your text with the text of the Brussels parliament. This amendment, which completely amends your resolution, would allow our Assembly to finally make a strong and positive gesture towards the right to self-determination of the Palestinian people and the solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict based on the peaceful coexistence of two States. This act would grow in Belgium by expressing a position as courageous as it is necessary. I know you don't really want to recognize this state. I could therefore understand that you were not voting on our overall amendment. Since you are advocating that we follow the current march at European level, I was thinking that perhaps you would be less reluctant to vote on the text adopted by Europe. But I am sure that on this point again, you will oppose an end of non-receiving. I am convinced that your real will is not to adopt a resolution that will truly allow the recognition of Palestine. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that today it is finally time for the majority groups to make a clear statement in plenary. Yes or no, do we now recognize the State of Palestine? In any case, you came out of the woods because in committee you rejected the texts that the opposition had tabled. In conclusion, I can tell you that if the overall amendment which is before you today is rejected, my group will vote against the majority text as submitted to us for all the reasons I have just presented to you. Thank you for your attention and I hope you support our amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u113	Mr Grovonius, quite a few things from your speech do not contradict my statement or the content of the motion for a resolution. You will not be the last, because I expect a few more Members to repeat your attempt. Soon sp.a., Green and Ecolo will probably make the same accusation. You once again give the impression that the present text would impose strict conditions. I would ask you to read the text, because that is not true. Mrs Grovonius, I just want to say this. The resolution of the European Parliament, which has also been adopted by the Socialist Group, states: "Supports in principle the recognition of Palestinian statehood and the two state solution, and believes these should go hand in hand with the development of peace talks, which should be advanced." Mrs Grovonius, in fact, our proposal for a resolution fits perfectly into the context of this recognition of principle, a recognition of principle which may even be a little more precise in our text.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u114	On the one hand, you know very well that you have other conditions in your motion for a resolution. We talked about them. Let it be the question, in particular, of full authority in the territory in a context in which, as we know, 60 per cent of Area C is occupied by the Israelis, which, de facto, makes it impossible to implement that condition. On the other hand, I'll take your word. If you are so on the same wavelength as the European position, vote on this text, let's vote on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u115	Mr President, this debate has already taken place in committee. On several occasions, we have proposed to Mr. De Roover tabled an amendment which would be the resolution voted on in the European Parliament. We even offered you the first signature, which you refused. What you are saying about the European resolution is wrong. You are making the recognition of the Palestinian State conditional on the existence of a full-fledged government on two pieces of Palestine, which, as we know, will take years to rejoin. The European Parliament's resolution does not at all foresee what you are saying. You are the condition for the resumption of talks between Israelis and Palestinians, while the European resolution, as you have said, provides for the resumption of talks between Israelis and Palestinians. Our view is that recognition of the Palestinian State can be a step in this Israeli-Palestinian reconciliation. And it is at the same time, as the European Parliament's resolution says. Chiche, table this text now as an amendment to your own resolution. We will sign it and vote on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u116	Mr President, the majority does not want immediate and unconditional recognition of the Palestinian State. Convinced that its procedure would be more effective for the recognition of the Palestinian State, Mr. Can De Roover tell us how soon he believes that by following his procedure, the Palestinian State will be recognized? If he fails to achieve an objective within a reasonable time, will he accept unconditional recognition of the Palestinian State? Can he make that commitment?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u117	I would like to point out, however, that our proposal for a resolution goes even further than the resolution adopted in the European Parliament, after the necessary recasts and rewrites, in parallel with the discussions that have taken place here, and which was approved by the Socialists in the European Parliament in Brussels. Mr van der Maelen, read what is in the proposed text and do not give the impression that there is anything else. I understand that you are particularly embarrassed, because your fellow party members in the European Parliament have not been able to achieve what we have achieved. We took them in speed, we passed them left and right. I can assume you're particularly disturbed by that. I understand your excitement very much, but the fact remains that we are going beyond that resolution. I propose that this be included as a broadcast for school television under the motto "doveman's talk," how does such a thing go? This is an example of it, because you remain worthy of an unseen stubbornness, a better cause, and give the impression that our motion for a resolution would be conditional, no matter how much we deny that this is the case, no matter how much the texts make it clear that it is not. Mrs Grovonius, colleagues from the opposition, she is not. There's no point in me denying it 36 more times. So let it be denied once and for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u118	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the risk of pointing out the opposition to the literal text of the resolution here before the 37th or already 38th time, I have looked up in Van Dale's great dictionary of the Dutch language, which means "conditional condition," a word with which we are beaten from all sides. It is not a text of the N-VA, because it is not a domestic political settlement with the N-VA. It is a majority resolution. Well, if there is a condition, then it means that there is a prior restriction, and I do not read that anywhere. You keep saying that here stoic. "Calm, slander, there will always be something!" Well, that will not work here, because we will continue to repeat in our way that you will have to say where that word is in the motion for a resolution. It's not there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u119	I didn't go to the Van Dale, I didn't go to the Larousse or the Little Robert. Nevertheless, when it is said: "We will recognize the State of Palestine if the Palestinian Authority has control over the entire territory, if the peace process is resumed... " For me, these are conditions. I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u120	Mr De Roover, I have been listening to you for a long time with a lot of fun and I am not the only one: I see your group, your own majority smiling when you say that your resolution goes further than that of the European Parliament. It's pretty swollen to say that! In my view, your resolution is obviously well down, it is blurred and it conditions. In fact, the Dutch text is even clearer than in French: "Te herkennen op basis van... ". If a text is even clearer in French, it is this one: it makes recognition conditional on a series of elements that, as we all know, are now inaccessible. That is the problem: the peace process has been bogged down since 1993 and part of the Palestinian territory has been occupied for some 50 years. It is from this logic that we want to come out; and your resolution goes into it, it persists in this logic. It is clear that you are handing over the recognition of the Palestinian State to the Greek calends.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u121	I can tell you, with a certain feeling of fatigue, that we will not approve the resolution that you claim we will approve. We shall vote in favour of the resolution as it stands and not in the way you are trying to frame it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u122	Of course, I regret it, but I'm not very surprised. We knew from the start that you had no real will in this case. I am comforted in the idea that was mine before going up to the gallery.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u123	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thought today's debate would be strong. I do. The debate on the recognition of the State of Palestine, a state that could have already been created under the auspice of the United Nations since 1947, has also been unprovoked seventeen years ago! In my view, as I said in committee when we introduced this resolution, which is carried by the parties of the majority, I regret that we are not supporting it either and having taken part in this debate. It is essential that this debate be initiated by Parliament, by Members of Parliament and by all of us, ladies and gentlemen. It is equally important to engage in dialogue with the government, which will ultimately take this decision on the recognition of the Palestinian State. As parliamentarians, as the House of Representatives of Belgium, we thus fulfil our political role: to support and monitor the action of the government on the one hand, but also, on the other hand, to encourage and even demand action on its part. It is here that the parliamentary debate keeps all its letters of nobility in the intellectual reflection and the political dimension of our decisions. As we know, ladies and gentlemen, this is an exceptional situation. The number of texts submitted attests to this. The Israeli-Palestinian conflict has lasted long enough. There are many victims. We no longer count unnecessary deaths, refugees or children without a future ready to exist. We want to say this strongly and vigorously, and we can find ourselves on that. For us liberal reformers, it is very important to stress this here, far beyond the debates we have had, we are committed to both peoples. I recall that Palestine is one of the eighteen partner countries in our development cooperation and that we are linked to the State of Israel by ties that go beyond the weight of history and the history of its people. We have the desire to see peace finally established in this part of the world. Beyond the political alternations, the position of our diplomacy has been astonishingly consistent. This has been said several times: the final settlement of the conflict and the achievement of lasting peace in the Middle East can only be achieved through the coexistence of two sovereign and independent States. This peace will guarantee the security of every citizen in these two States. This peace will guarantee the mutual recognition of all States in the region. This peace will be reinforced by the implementation of a model of economic cooperation close to what we have built in Europe since the end of the Second World War. Ladies and gentlemen, that is the strength of our resolution. It is not a question of giving a gift or giving pleasure to one or the other political ally of the international scene; we want Palestine's recognition to be the starting point for a new Middle East, in particular that of the Oslo agreements of 1993. That is why I can say very clearly that our country must recognize the State of Palestine in order to ensure a better future for both Palestinians and Israelis. There is no doubt about that. Belgium's recent votes in favour of Palestine as a member of UNESCO and as a non-member observer State to the United Nations were the first steps. I reaffirm this position in the assembly, just as our Prime Minister and our Minister of Foreign Affairs did earlier, and I would like to quote an excerpt from the policy speech of November 2014. "Belgium has always been in favour of a solution of co-existing two States and creating a sovereign Palestinian State living in peace and security with and alongside Israel. This principled position ultimately means recognition of a Palestinian State. The question now is when does this recognition have to happen?" Belgium, by a constant position, is both the friend of the Palestinians and the friend of Israel. So far, it has managed to obtain the listening and the confidence of both parties in order to influence favourably the modalities of a just resolution, negotiated and accepted by both parties. Our country has a major role to play in a coherent and sustainable European diplomatic dynamic. We know that the only solution to the conflict is direct and honest talks between the two sides. It is precisely through our resolution that we wish to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u124	Mrs Jadin, of course I agree with everything you say on the merits. To do this, we have to do it. You say we are friends, both with Israel and with Palestine. To be friends is to recognize the dignity of the other. Belgium recognized Israel quite quickly. Belgium has not yet recognized Palestine. It is a lack of dignity and it is not to give dignity to Palestine, which you call our friend, that you do not recognize it. Today, we have a lot of important economic relations with Israel. We, as friends, would like to have the same economic relationship with Palestine. That is impossible because, today, another friend, Israel, is preventing the economic development of Palestine and preventing us from having the same level of economic relations with that Palestinian State. To give this dignity to this friend or at least to the one you call your friend, recognize now, immediately Palestine!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u125	Mr Hellings, I hear your arguments. These are the ones that you have also produced in committee. I think that through the resolution that we have tabled and that we obviously want to see the success of today, we have developed in our recitals our wish to go step by step. I just said it again. I take as proof the recognition in the United Nations bodies, the recognition by Belgium also of Palestine in other international forums, as well as the involvement of our country through development cooperation. To recognize the Palestinian State, there must be conditions that allow us to set the framework, as we have... Colleagues, you have read this resolution. Indeed, I believe that there must be a framework within which, in a timely manner, the Palestinian State can be recognized. Mr President, if I may, I will continue with my presentation. Indeed, this peace, we have long known its parameters. It must be based on the existence of two sovereign and democratic States, living side by side in peace and security, on the basis of the borders established in 1967, with Jerusalem as its capital. The definition of these parameters can be found in Security Council resolution 242, in the Madrid negotiations, then in the Oslo agreements, in the Camp David or Taba summits, or in the last unsuccessful attempt by US Secretary of State John Kerry. Faced with this impasse, in the face of an Obama administration that is living in its last months, a period that is not conducive to intense diplomatic efforts, European states must take a strong initiative and take strong action, in line with the values that our old continent has long defended. These political bases are found in the text co-signed by the Reform Movement, the Open Vld, the N-VA and the CD&V. A text whose importance cannot be underestimated both for our Assembly, but for this whole region of the world. And I welcome the fact that the House of Representatives can make a constructive contribution to this debate that has developed in several European states since last September. I can also welcome the wealth of our exchanges, as well as the method we have used to reach this resolution. Indeed, as early as October, we invited the two ambassadors to our Committee on External Affairs; they were able to present their views and that of their respective governments. We have also had the opportunity to present all the motions for resolutions tabled. Finally, two weeks ago, we were able to hold this adversarial debate, which leads us to vote today, I hope, on this resolution. The Reform Movement has long defended the principle that recognition of the State of Palestine must take place within the framework of a comprehensive and final settlement of the conflict, negotiated by both parties. We are aware of the enormous difficulties of every aspect, of every line, of every detail of this comprehensive regulation. We also know that this bilateral agreement is only viable through a regional agreement. Given the situation in the region, this agreement will be difficult to conclude. Israel can live in full security only in a peaceful regional environment. This security of the State of Israel and its people requires full recognition of the State of Israel by all Palestinian parties, including Hamas, and all countries in the region, including Iran. The road will be long; everyone realizes it. But we cannot accept a symbolic recognition, a recognition for itself, a recognition that would not be followed by any concrete effect, principles that I find in most of the texts that have been tabled. Unilateral recognition of the Palestinian State without negotiations, without conditions, is, on the one hand, bad for the credibility of our diplomacy and, on the other, counterproductive for the interests of the parties to the Middle East peace.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u126	Mrs Jadin, you say that the solution is discussion. Since 1993, all the countries you mentioned have been discussing. What did it give? Did this result in less Israeli colonization of Palestinian lands? No! Did it give peace? No! There is an effective way today to force Israel to stop the colonization that makes the peace process impossible and, de facto, the very existence of Palestine is to recognize the State of Palestine! The rest, we've already done it. It's not effective. If one day we recognize Palestine, if one day we manage to put pressure on Israel, as we should have done for years, to stop colonizing Palestine, in a few years' time, there will be no need to finance development cooperation in Palestine. We will then be able to sign a trade agreement with Palestine.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u127	Madam Member, you look very harmless. You have brought calm to this House, but I think we must stop. You continue to explain to us here that you, with the majority, are at the forefront of this will to bring a new breath to Palestine. In fact, as you said yourself, you are in contradiction with Mr. De Roover, who sang a song to us for an hour, telling us that there were no conditions, that you were going much further than the European Parliament's resolution. But you're telling us that we need conditions! Stop! Be consistent within your majority! Stop trying to explain to us that your motion is the right one. The only one that is right is the one proposed today by the opposition, the one that aims to recognize Palestine. I ask you to be more synthetic because you have words that really start to irritate us!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u128	Mr Kir, it is your strictest right to express yourself in this way. But I also have the right to have my point of view. I think, indeed, that there is no reason, as you do, to say that everything is white or black, that there is a good and a bad resolution. I sincerely believe that this resolution will set the framework for the faster recognition of the Palestinian State. Mr Hellings, your remarks today are no different from those of yesterday. Your resolution is, to be heard, positive in that it aims at a purely symbolic recognition of the Palestinian State. For my part, like others, I believe that it could complicate the situation, that it would not change anything on the ground and that it would not contribute to bringing peace to the Middle East.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u129	Mrs Jadin, this unconditional and immediate resolution is in line with the resolution adopted by the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. It is summed up in one sentence: Palestine is recognized. I draw attention here to the fact that the House of Commons is not used to making decisions that I would call folles. On the other hand, we know that there is a domino effect. Other parliaments of other European states adopt an immediate and unconditional recognition resolution. We could become the ninth. Soon, the Palestinians will be able to be strong in the support of all European parliaments and to negotiate equally with Israel. The problem today is that a strong partner, Israel, occupies the territories of a weak partner, Palestine. If Palestine is recognized and you give it its dignity, you strengthen the Palestinians with the aim of a negotiated peace to two States living side by side.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u130	Mrs Jadin, first of all, I would like to say that I respect your point of view. I am not here to say that you are serving us an insignificant speech, but there is only one criterion that must guide us: the correct, full and complete application of international law. Yes or no, does international law tell us that the Palestinian people have a right to their State? Yes! Is international law subjecting this recognition of the Palestinian State to conditions? No! What you put in your resolution is contrary to international law. There is nothing else to decide but full respect for international law!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u131	That is the purpose of this resolution. As I said three or four times, there is no doubt as to the recognition of the Palestinian State. There is no doubt as to the timely recognition by Belgium of the State of Palestine. Why? Because we want recognition that supports negotiation, that revives it and that forces the unjust and untenable status quo. We also know that a collective international effort in the service of peace is necessary and that our approach must be integrated into a European package that has existed since 1980 and the Venice Declaration. This European approach is certainly imposed on us by the Treaties of the European Union. We must put our foreign policies on a European line, but this will only be effective if it weighs a European weight. We must also join the permanent members of the Security Council, Arab countries such as Egypt and Jordan. We want recognition of a state, a government, a people, a territory. Our approach, through the adoption of this resolution, is to mark the government's thinking. This resolution could, I sincerely hope, counter the voices which, within the Israeli Government itself, now seem to exclude the creation of any Palestinian State, a development which I consider to be of great concern and which we will observe carefully at the elections next March. This resolution could help Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas and his successor to solve his problem number 1, which is to establish his authority in Gaza and to remove that territory and population from Hamas' grip, an organization recognized as terrorist and which refuses the very existence of the State of Israel. Ladies and gentlemen, this resolution is primarily intended to be a contribution to peace in the Middle East. I hope that, at the end of our vote today, the Government will commit itself, at a time when it deems it appropriate, to full recognition of the State of Palestine.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, several resolutions have been tabled with a view to the recognition of Palestine. Is that a coincidence? Of course not. It is now the time to move things there. In doing so, we must join forces to assert the political weight of Belgium in this matter and to achieve a series of objectives. I have read all the resolutions well and we all share the same objective, in particular a lasting solution to the conflict, which will enable a sovereign and viable Palestinian State to exist safely and in peace with and alongside Israel. We have had it with this hopeless situation and the inflexible Israeli attitude. We must help to move towards solutions to the ongoing conflict, to relaunch the peace negotiations and to break the status quo. At the same time, we all know that we have to dive into the history of the conflict for a moment, that the dossier is not simple and that the situation is very complex. We all share these concerns, and this is reflected in all the resolutions. That is why we felt it was so important to put this international problem on the agenda today. In the climate of polarisation created, I would like to emphasise those shared concerns and the shared sense of responsibility that this implies. We all have a responsibility to the peoples concerned and to the millions of inhabitants of the Middle East. Ladies and gentlemen, the majority resolution is a resolution calling on the government to recognise Palestine as a state. In that resolution, we take responsibility, as we see it, for making an effective positive contribution by focusing on solutions in a political and diplomatic framework. Recognition is a particularly important instrument, which can only be used once. It must be handled very carefully and carefully so that it can have a maximum positive effect. Again, recognition is an important instrument. This reasoning is reflected in the fact that, when choosing the moment of recognition, it is to be hoped that a number of factors, which have been discussed repeatedly, will soon be taken into account, for the sake of clarity. I am thinking of the positive impact of recognition on the political negotiation process, i.e. to start the negotiation process, either at the start or on the road. Another factor is the evolution of the joint European efforts in connection with the conflict. There is also the state of play regarding a stable Palestinian government and its authority over its territory. In addition, it is crucial that the recognized limits are those of before 1967. It is these elements that together generate a political and diplomatic process that is essential for a sustainable solution and that will enable recognition to produce as many positive effects as possible. If recognition is not achieved within such a framework, then one works in the delicacy and does something symbolic. With this majority resolution, we can exert pressure to play a role in all these areas in order to achieve recognition as quickly as possible. Just asking for a recognition hic et nunc, as a symbolic act, sounds much better and much more radical, of course, but if our resolution doesn't sound so strong, so be it. What matters is that they take on their political and diplomatic responsibilities. Perhaps there is a small difference, in the sense that we have confidence in this government and its competent ministers. We are convinced that, once the necessary diplomatic and political process has begun, it will recognise Palestine as part of a two-state solution. In other words, we are presenting a concrete result here today. This resolution is a clear political signal that we want to send a message to both sides in the conflict. We must firmly prevent a two-state solution from being undermined. We also find Israel's current settlement policy absolutely unacceptable. This resolution also clearly stresses the limits of 1967. I myself will continue to follow this very closely in the Committee on External Relations. Having regard to Resolution No. I will also continue to ask 242 of the UN Security Council for the withdrawal of Israeli forces from occupied territories. The Palestinians are entitled to liveable Palestine. The destruction of development projects is unheard of and we absolutely must pay attention to this. However, we would also like to point out to the Palestinians their responsibility to put internal order in place. We are well aware that the battle between Hamas and Fatah over Gaza's control has not become easier. In this sense, the security problems of Israel, the terror of Palestinian groups and the instability in the region are also real. For a new dynamic in the negotiations, a united and supported Palestinian government and a recognition of Israel's right to exist by the Palestinians, including Hamas, is a legitimate demand. Ladies and gentlemen, for all these reasons, this resolution is not a step in the right direction. Nor is it an attempt to block the debate. This resolution calls for the recognition of the Palestinian State, but calls for it within a political and diplomatic framework. So we're asking for something more. Those elements are not deliberately and not unnecessarily chosen to achieve the impossible, so to speak, they are simply realities that are essential to achieving a real, sustainable and sustained solution. We cannot ignore these things, we cannot close our eyes, we cannot avoid these difficulties. That is why our hope is that this signal will be received by both sides, that it will reflect and that this hopelessly blocked situation will be given a positive momentum. It is our conviction that this resolution will be received in a more open atmosphere than so-called criminal resolutions. The fact that the government parties have taken this initiative together will send a strong signal to the parties to the conflict. I turn once again, as in the committee, to the opposition parties to stress that the only thing that can make us stronger in our efforts to balance the conflict is the joint support of this resolution. Then we can take a number of steps together. After that, we can continue to discuss this issue in committee. Only the joint support of this resolution can make our signal stronger.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u133	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Palestine and the Palestinians are suffering. They've been suffering for a long time, for too long. They suffer because they find themselves in a situation of injustice, both morally and in international law. You're calling on the opposition. At the same time, you tell us that recognizing the Palestinian State, in the terms we have defined in our resolution, is purely symbolic. No, Madam, the objective of our resolution, which recognizes the Palestinian State, is to help the Palestinian side in its unbalanced relationship with the Israeli side, so that a simple but important thing can finally become a reality: the application of international law. That, Madam, is what the motion for a resolution we have tabled. It is not symbolic in scope, it is political in scope. Unfortunately, you do not want to hear it; unfortunately, you will add to the woes of the world with a resolution like yours, which does not see things as they are.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u134	Mr President, I listen very carefully to everything that is being said, particularly from the majority, and I hear from the benches of the majority "the concern to meet the concerns of each other". So I am asking a question to the majority and I would like a clear answer: what is the Palestinian position with regard to the text that you are putting to the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u135	We are asking very clearly for the recognition of the Palestinian State. That is what this resolution is about. This is constantly twisted and reversed. What we are adding is to place this in a political and diplomatic framework, which will enable us to take steps. However, the question is very clear about the recognition of the Palestinian State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u136	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, we have already heard different views from the majority and opposition. I think we should start with what we have in common. Everyone in this Chamber wants peace in the Middle East, particularly in Israel and Palestine. This conflict has been dragging on for far too long. For too long innocent women, children and men have suffered from this situation, the lack of opportunities and the lack of security. For far too long, international rules have been violated. For far too long, fundamentalism, violence and terrorism have been used as a way of fucking up the conflict. Ladies and gentlemen, we all want a Palestinian State. This has been the consistent attitude of all Belgian governments in any political composition. We support a solution which allows the two states, Israel and Palestine, to co-exist in peace and security. It is on that basis that we, the proposers, are leaving for this resolution. That's our horizon. That is the aim of all our diplomatic efforts. Now the debate is about when recognition should take place and under what conditions. Our resolution is also constantly being compared with that of other EU Member States. I have no problem with that, but I do think it is important to clarify what considerations we as a majority in our country make. We do agree with the current European movement in order to get a move on this matter. It is also what the European Parliament is calling for in its December resolution: a recognition of principle in European consultation. Our resolution is fully committed to this process of European coordination.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u137	I have before me the various resolutions that have been adopted by the European countries. For Ireland, for example, it is said that it officially recognizes the State of Palestine on the basis of the 1967 borders, but there is no condition, the famous three conditions found on page 7 of your resolution, Mr De Roover. The English resolution states: The House of Commons believes that the government must recognize the State of Palestine alongside Israel as a contribution to a negotiated peace solution. Nothing more. There are still no three conditions on page 7 of your resolution. For France, the National Assembly calls on the Government to recognize the State of Palestine with a view to achieving a final settlement of the conflict. Nothing more. You're not involved in the process, the domino I was talking about earlier. You're not taking part! Your resolution is more like that of Spain, which is the complete counter-example. Belgium, by voting this resolution today, does not participate in the domino effect that you claim to embody.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u138	We differ, Mr Hellings, as you have done with many of my fellow Members today. I brought my iPad again to repeat exactly what we are asking. I quote: "We ask the Government to recognise the Palestinian State as an international legal subject at the time when it is considered most appropriate, on the basis of, among other things, the following elements: firstly, the positive impact of this recognition so that a comprehensive political negotiation process between Israel and Palestine can be restarted or supported; secondly, the evolution of the dialogue between the Member States of the European Union and the European Union's efforts to support the peace process and, thirdly, the existence of a fully-fledged Palestinian government with authority over the entire Palestinian territory. We are convinced that this is in line with the European resolution adopted in December. Our resolution is fully in line with that process of European alignment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u139	Mrs Lijnen, does that mean in practice that if the Palestinian Government does not exercise full authority over Gaza and the West Bank, the Belgian Government will still be able to recognise the State of Palestine?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u140	Mr Hellings, we ask our government to recognise the Palestinian State on the basis of a number of matters. I can't keep repeating that. I'm just getting to our position right now. I would rather explain how we have determined our position as a group. Our approach is an optimistic one. Without always seeing things brightly, we have hope in a happy ending. Optimists see every setback from the past in the light of a positive outlook for the future. That message of hope is needed today in Israel and in Palestine. That a solution is possible, that is what this resolution stands for. As a group, we support this unanimously and completely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u141	Mrs Lijnen, I am listening to you as I have listened to the other members of the majority who have spoken so far. Each of you says a little contradictory things. Mr. De Roover said these are not conditions, Ms Jadin said they are still conditions. Your position is intermediate. It's an address you're making to the government. You say that he will have to take these things into account or not. I want to speak to the members of the government, the prominent member of the government who is here and who is following our work. Mrs Sleurs, how do you interpret this resolution and, in the event that the conditions contained therein are not met, does the Government intend to recognize Palestine?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that Mrs Lijnen spoke. It is a parliamentary initiative. If the government feels called to speak, it can do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u143	Mr President, we have seen different interpretations of the resolution on the part of the majority for some time now. Mr. De Roover explained for an hour that there were no conditions. Its "op based" or "depending on" are conditions. Then we had the right to listen to Ms Jadin for the MR group, who made it very clear that there were conditions. Here, we don't know exactly what it is anymore. I agree with Mr Dallemagne. There is a demand for consistency on the part of the majority. I also ask the minister who represents the government. Minister, could we know the government's position?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u144	I give the floor to those who ask Mrs Lijnen still has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u145	Mr President, we have asked the government a question together. Is it possible for the government to respond?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u146	If the government asks for the floor, I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u147	This is a resolution, that is the work of Parliament. You're asking the government to do certain things. We shall take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u148	The debate is starting to take on surrealistic forms. I understand now that the government is being asked what we mean by our resolution. In my view, a resolution is a question from the Chamber to the government, and it gives the impression here that it is the government that is asking us a question. I have to tell you that there is a substantial difference between the Chamber and FC The Champions: in the Chamber there is no limitation on repetitions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u149	Mr President, I love the way my colleague from the N-VA is trying to make up desperately for a situation that is beginning to become surreal. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, when one hears you one after another, when one hears your versions, this confidence that some say, "I trust this government," and this government that now says, "we'll see if we're applying certain things," acknowledge that it's logical...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u150	I have confidence, optimism and hope!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u151	We would be delighted to hear the minister, who is not listening much, but who is now interested in it and has almost spoken. You who trust them so much and who say here that they will indeed stand in favour of the recognition of the State of Palestine... Madam Minister, since you are here for the government, we would be delighted if you would enlighten us on the party in your majority that you support to know which version you support among those that have been expressed here in the rostrum for some time now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u152	Mr President, I heard Mrs Fonck start her speech by saying that the situation was becoming surreal, etc. I think she put a diaper back on. She concluded her speech by asking the minister for the party she supported. It is not the government that supports a majority! Don't laugh! The majority of us are made up of four political groups who express themselves in a debate after having reached an agreement on the drafting and tabling of a parliamentary text which is a resolution adopted by Parliament. The minister is here to hear what is being said. As a parliamentarian debating a text, I would not like to have to wait for instructions from the government! [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u153	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u154	Mrs Onkelinx, I know that you were a minister and that you used to tell the majority what to do (...) [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u155	Colleagues, one after the other, please!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u156	Everyone knows that there are four political formations in those who support this majority. These are four points of view that we express and that can indeed vary from one sensitivity to another. That's right! That's no problem. The only thing that will count is the time for voting, when our majority has expressed itself (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u157	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of an essential rule: it is the government that recognises a foreign state. Here we are in Parliament. The least we can do is ask the government how it understands the resolution that we are going to discuss and perhaps adopt. The least he can do is ask him what he intends to do with this resolution. If the government says today that it is not interested, that it does not understand the text submitted, that it is our discussion and that it is making fun of the rest, then I really wonder what we are serving for! [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u158	Indeed, you have recalled that I have been on the benches of the government for some time and that, in this context, I have had to deal with several resolutions that have been discussed by Parliament within the framework of my powers. Each time, I intervened on the subject to give my feeling. Here, the very fact that the Secretary of State barely listens, that there is no word from the Government, shows his contempt for the question that is being asked, namely the recognition of Palestine. And this is a major political fact! [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u159	Mrs Onkelinx, indeed, what is important here is the freedom of Parliament. I know you used to be in parliament being corporalized...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u160	Never! [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u161	This is not the case. Mrs. Onkelinx, I listened to you. See how you are! You don't like to hear other voices than yours! Of course, once the resolution has been passed, we can then ask the government about how it will implement it. But let us give Parliament the right to discuss it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u162	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we understand that the opposition wants to move quickly and recognise Palestine quickly, but then the cart will be put in front of the horse. Before we have finished the debate, before we have discussed our resolution in the Chamber and voted on it, we are asking the government what its position is. I don't think that's any way of working at all. That even seems to me, ladies and gentlemen, to undermine what we are doing here and what we stand for. Secondly, on the subject of speed, the government has tabled a resolution within four months, which will be adopted shortly. There was a resolution of 28 April 2011. It's been on the table for four years, and that's what happened to nougat balls. So who's moving fast? This majority!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u163	Mr President, I did not want to assault Mrs Onkelinx by recalling the number of years she was a minister. That said, as a constitutionalist, everything Mr Delperee says has a lot of weight. However – and I have already had the opportunity to discuss this issue with him – we cannot follow him when he says that the government will see to what extent he will follow or not follow the resolution that will be voted on by our Parliament. Parliament decides! It's the parliament that votes! And if Parliament votes a resolution, the government is obliged to implement it. One point of our Rules, Mr. Chairman, is the question of the extent to which the government is implementing the resolutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u164	Mr President, I will not prolong this debate at length. But Mr. Miller is wrong at all. We don't vote a law. We don't vote a decree. We don't vote a prescription. We are voting on a resolution. We're voting for a wish. [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u165	Ladies and gentlemen, please let Mr Delperée speak!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u166	I simply and kindly explain that a resolution is a wish that the House may or may not express. Therefore, to say that the government is bound by this resolution is nonsense.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u167	Mr President, I note that Mr Delperée remains in his position. A government lives because it is supported by a majority. The majority voted on a resolution in favour of the recognition of the Palestinian State. The government must implement the resolution that has been voted on, otherwise we are faced with a problem of majority. We will therefore vote for a resolution in which we believe. We are sure, certain and convinced that it will contribute more to the recognition of the Palestinian State than that of the opposition which, if voted, would only lead to the victory of the opposition which would rush to party, happy to have obtained something. So far, nothing has progressed. We want to give our Government a strong position that allows it to be heard by both Israelis and Palestinians. That is why we believe that our resolution is the best.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u168	This is not about the government, it is not about who is the best student in the class, it is about Palestine's independence and the recognition of Palestine as an independent state for peace, stability and hope. Our resolution expresses hope for the resumption of the peace process, in which the recognition of Palestine will be a necessary step forward. Our resolution must help both Israel and Palestine to sit down as full partners. They must both respect international commitments and responsibilities, including with regard to their own people in terms of security, good governance and human rights. The borders must also be clear, and they must also be respected. The resolution also recognises the right to self-determination and refers to the UN resolutions of 1947, 1967 and 1988. For my group, these resolutions are not in question. We also refer explicitly to the status of Palestine in international organisations. In our country too, the Palestinian delegation already enjoys a special diplomatic status. The members of the External Relations Committee know that, because we received the delegation here on 9 September 2014. We then had a discussion with the delegation about the conflict. We also refer explicitly to Israel's settlement policy, which does not contribute at all to a solution. We fully recognise the legitimate expectations of both Israelis and Palestinians. Furthermore, we agree with the EU's demand that future Palestine can become a sovereign, independent, democratic, united and viable state. We must not forget that the EU is already investing a great deal in this area. It is also one of our partner countries in development cooperation, as Mr Claerhout has just mentioned. Positive steps by the Palestinian Government, such as the recognition of the Rome Statute for the International Criminal Court, are certainly recognised. We also recognise Israel's right to live in peace and security and to protect the security of its citizens. This also means that we agree with the condemnation of the threats against Hamas and other militias. Those threats absolutely must stop! It is not possible to achieve peace in a negotiated way if, at the same time, the security of the streets is not guaranteed and the existence of the Israeli State itself is called into question. Other countries in the region that threaten Israel must also understand this. The EU and Belgium must play their part in this. So I cannot stress enough that the motion for a resolution does not take any sides. It is not a question of whether Belgium is taking the side of Palestine or Israel. We reject that black-and-white thinking. The only side that our group is taking is peace and hope, the path of optimism, Mrs Onkelinx. That is why my group rejects the idea that our supposedly too weak resolution will only be choirs on the mill of fundamentalists on the Palestinian side to save faith in a solution. Nor am I confident that the resolution on the Israeli side would radicalise the parties in the light of the forthcoming elections in March. For us, that's not on the count. There's no talking to fundamentalists. That is precisely why we and the European Union must point out that only the path of negotiation, including compromise and moderation, is the right one. We, the authors of the resolution, have therefore also chosen a clear question for the government to carry out the recognition of Palestine at the most appropriate time. There's a double reason for that. Firstly, the recognition of states is formally the competence of the executive. This was discussed in more detail earlier. Secondly, we are giving the government a clear mandate here to move forward in that negotiation process and the preparations for it. Mr Claerhout has also referred to this on several occasions. Now that the government is given a unilateral and immediately binding mandate, the diplomatic room for manoeuvre of our government would be reduced to zero. That's what we're gonna do. In order to allow for recognition, the text has identified a number of elements which we consider important. I repeat briefly that there should be no misunderstandings. The government should assess the possible recognition in the light of a positive impact on the negotiation process, on European consultation and on the existence of a fully-fledged Palestinian government with authority across its territory. We've had that discussion several times this evening. The latter is a formal condition imposed on a State before recognition can be granted. My group considers these elements to be anything but unreasonable. In fact, I regret that the opposition has not joined this initiative and has remained stubbornly defending its own attitude. We Belgians have the high technology of resolving conflicts, sometimes slow and not always as elegant, but peaceful and in view of the legitimate interests of all communities. Our resolution is moderate and stands for the Belgian pacification model. It is not the resolution of five minutes of political courage and muscle, which others propose. My group will vote for this motion for a resolution with conviction and optimism. Our parliamentary group will therefore continue to play its role. Mrs Sleurs, we wish the government every success in its efforts to reactivate the negotiation process. We will also follow those efforts closely in committee. As Mr Miller has pointed out today, we are asking the government to follow up the dossier closely and to question the government on the issue. However, this resolution clearly sets the horizon for our group and for Parliament. We are fully in favour of a final and comprehensive solution which respects the legitimate expectations of peace, security and prosperity of the Palestinian and Israeli peoples.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u169	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with a slightly broader comment. I have just remained calm, but it is unheard of that the Foreign Minister, who was not here when we discussed the foreign affairs chapter of the coalition agreement, is not here today. We have discussed seven resolutions in committee, which means that the issue lives in Parliament. We spent four hours in the Committee on External Relations. We have been debating this matter for a little over two hours and who is still not here? That's the Secretary of State. The majority will indeed note that a resolution is a matter for Parliament, which is also true. It would be respectful, however, if the Foreign Minister were to discuss such an important and sensitive issue otherwise there would be no seven resolutions here and we would not have been here in committee for four hours. I only allowed him to come here to listen. I would not have had a problem with it if he had made a statement. His absence is a double regret, because, in my opinion, I will open up the discussions somewhat; this is a break in our policy towards the Palestinian-Israeli conflict. There was under Louis Michel, Karel De Gucht, Yves Leterme, Steven Vanackere and under Didier Reynders in the previous government a constant in our foreign policy towards those two countries. That constant in our foreign policy was that we had two basic principles, two principles. The first point of departure was supported by all the parties that were once part of those governments that I just mentioned to the Foreign Ministers, and there are quite a few of them. The first principle was that we demanded respect from both parties for international law. The second principle was the requirement. We would never take sides with either one of them. In the four months I believe that this right-wing government is in power to establish a breach of our policy. First of all, I respect international law. A month and a half ago, the Palestinian Government decided to join the International Criminal Court. That is a very important choice, on which everyone in Belgium should be thrilled. This means that one of the two parties has said that it wants to subject its behaviour and the behaviour of the other party to international law, to the review by the International Criminal Court. Have you heard any encouraging signal from the Belgian side? None. In fact, when Israel decided to withhold Palestine's tax revenue as a sanction, Europe's foreign ministers said that it was too far, that it was over. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, and it is a pity that he is not here, I challenge the Belgian Foreign Minister to present me with a communiqué in which he has even expressed one slight protest. Colleagues, this is a fracture. International law is no longer the starting point for our Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is a pity that we cannot discuss this with him.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u170	Mr Van der Maelen, you have been in the gallery for more or less 10 minutes and you have repeated 10 times that you find it unfortunate that the Foreign Minister is not here. To my knowledge, everyone in the Chamber is aware of the absence of our minister for two days now. It is too easy to place all the argumentation of your presentation on the fact that "it is regrettable that...". Everyone was aware that the Minister of Foreign Affairs would not be present today. He's sorry. That is why he is represented. It's too easy to use this argument to keep on vociating. In the end, there is indeed a resolution that is proposed by the majority. As always, in each legislature, there are of course counter-proposals made by the opposition. It is obvious that we will not agree. But one thing is important: tonight there will be at least one resolution that will be voted on and that is in everyone's interest, even if it does not correspond to the sensitivities of all. Each time, during each legislature, for every resolution, it is always the same. Let us continue the debate much more clearly and try, for once, to finish it. I think we're talking a little bit about everything and anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u171	Mr Thiéry, I note that we differ. I believe that every Member of this House believes that this is an important issue with regard to foreign policy, otherwise we would not be debating it for so long. It is a fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not consider us worthy to come and listen for one second in the Committee on External Relations or in this plenary session, or, rather, to take part in this debate. I am sorry, but I find this unacceptable. You have a different opinion on this and I respect it, but I will tell you what my opinion is. I find this all the more unacceptable because I think I see a break in the constant policy of different governments with different compositions. At a time when one of the two parties is proposing to subject the conflict to the supervision of the International Criminal Court and then there will be a sanction from the other party that does not want to do so, our Foreign Minister does not even squeak. He does not yet raise an eyebrow and gives no sign, while in other European countries the Foreign Ministers say that this is about it; if the Palestinians choose the slopes of the International Criminal Court, they can only be happy with it. In Belgium, we do not hear a word from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, we do not hear any reaction, we do not hear it here, because he is not present either from his department. The first point, therefore, is that international law for this majority is no longer a guiding principle in our country's stance. The second point, the second constant, the second basic characteristic of the political line that the various governments have followed in the past, is the equity. Ladies and gentlemen, we can discuss for a long time, but I will try to keep it simple. Before the latest Gaza war, the case was blocked. However, since the latest Gaza war, we have seen that eight parliaments and one government, the Swedish, want to recognise the country. Mr Delpérée is right: recognition is a matter for governments, according to most constitutions. In the meantime, the Swedish Government has decided to recognise the country. As Mr Hellings has said, the British Parliament has called on his government to recognise it immediately. In short, there is a first group of countries that responded after the Gaza conflict and are in favour of immediate recognition. In Sweden that happened by the government, in the UK it is a wish of parliament. There is a second series of resolutions from countries which say they are in principle in favour of recognition, but it does not need to take place immediately, which may be later. Such a resolution has been adopted by the European Parliament. A consensus was sought there. Five parties have come together and adopted a resolution by 498 votes to 88 and 111 abstentions, saying that peace negotiations and recognition must go hand in hand. Almost simultaneously. Then there is the resolution of this majority. If approved, the Belgian Parliament will become the ninth to consider recognition. With the first part of your text, I can live. If you were to put an end to "most suitable" in your text, you would be in the group I have just described, the second group. But no, you say that recognition will take place later and it must take place on the basis of a number of conditions. And that is our criticism: it concerns a number of unfulfilled conditions. In other words, it is a question of conditions that can only be fulfilled if one party agrees, Israel. Why do I say that? It has been formulated a little differently, but the bottom line is that there has to be a little more unity within Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, anyone who has been following the problem for ten years knows that it is divided in Europe and that there are countries. I shall not mention names with a heavy historical debt towards the Jews. They will never move in the direction of a recognition of Palestine, unless there is a green light from Israel. Another condition laid down in the resolution, which has been mentioned several times, is that the Palestinian Government should be able to establish authority throughout the territory. Area C on the West Bank is occupied by Israel. Civil, political and military are controlled by them. As long as Israel does not decide to withdraw, there will be no recognition, according to your text. Ladies and gentlemen, the conclusion is clear. There is no requirement here. If you choose equity, you were in the middle group. We are in the first group for immediate recognition. I would like to accept that the first group goes too far for you. It is not very radical, however, ladies and gentlemen. There are calls from prominent Israeli intellectuals and politicians, Nobel Prize winners, two previous ministers, a pack of Knesset members and well-known writers such as Amos Oz and David Grossman. They call on the international community to take the step towards the immediate recognition of Palestine because they need it in order to keep a two-state solution alive. So don't tell us we're too radical. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, we have presented the text of the European Parliament to you in committee, with the opposition, with our fellow Members from the Green Group. It's not in the first group, it's in the middle group. You refused that text. You choose a text that is entirely on the Israeli line. Israeli diplomacy is overjoyed with your text and leans on it in the rest of Europe, with the message that this is a parliament that has taken its side and that it does not go along with the movement that is taking place in the rest of Europe. That is your text, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u172	Mr van der Maelen, you pointed out a few gaps between this policy and the previous one. You haven't finished completely, so maybe you will, but there's still a difference between this government and that of which you've been a part. We recognize the Palestinian State. Yours didn't succeed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u173	It's really not worth answering.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u174	That difference is very clear, Mr Van der Maelen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u175	Mr De Roover, I would like to remind you that it is not Parliament that recognises a state, it is the government. If you want to talk about parliamentary initiatives, I will remind you that in the Senate, under the previous legislature, a text has been adopted calling for recognition of Palestine. Stop lying all the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u176	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, this debate has not lasted four hours but has been going on for quite some time and I am still waiting for serious arguments from you who will explain to me why you, as an opposition, do not sign up to this proposal. Perhaps we should add a small clause in Van Dale in the definition of "requisite condition', perhaps then it will all become clear. It is incomprehensible, however, that the opposition continues to condemn this opportunity, this text, on the basis of false pretences, on the basis of deliberate misinterpretations, which we hear time and time again. That's a missed opportunity for this opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u177	Mr President, Mr De Roover, be intellectually honest. I told you earlier that something has changed since the last Gaza war. I had tabled a resolution to recognise Palestine in the previous legislature and before and before, but the climate has changed. It is no coincidence that one government has already recognised Palestine and seven other parliaments have made a choice. I blame you, in the current movement in Europe, for going with your resolution for the weakest possibility of all, with the most pro-Israeli attitude throughout the European Union. I blame you for that. Mr Luykx, I have just tried to explain to you why we will not approve this resolution. Clearly, this is a hypocritical resolution. She's hypocritical because there's a first part that says you're for recognition at the most appropriate time. If you stop there, you are on the line of the European Parliament and I would even like to approve the resolution. However, you add hypocritical elements and say that the government can only proceed with recognition as one, two and three... Now listen carefully. One, two and three can only be realised if Israel realizes those conditions. In doing so, you are proving that you are taking a side, that you are also storing the equity, the second constant in our foreign policy towards the region, as well as the fact that you are no longer taking international law as a guiding principle. You are now also taking Israel's side. I blame you for that. I repeat: our resolution recognises that the international community has been trying to find a solution since 1993 with the start of the Oslo negotiations. I've said it before. Let me repeat: do you know the definition of madness or stupidity? There are different variants. Einstein says it's insane and stupid. Don't take it personally now to think that if you keep repeating what you've done five or six times before, you'll get another outcome. You say you can live with the status quo. You believe that the peace negotiations will be resumed and that Israel will stop the settlements. Sorry, wake up. Wake up. Read and follow Israeli politics. I have just mentioned a call from people who are worried sick about the political path their country is taking. There will be coalitions of Netanyahu and extreme right in Israel. Forget that they will be prepared to restart the negotiation process. Amos Oz and David Grossman are not fools. They say now is the time to give a shock. Now is the time to acknowledge Palestine. They hope that it will then be understood that it must be done with the taking of land.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u178	Mr Luykx, I would like to give a clear answer to your question as to why the opposition parties will not approve your majority resolution. I would also like to reply to Mrs Claerhout from CD&V and Mrs Lijnen from Open Vld. We will not help to adopt this resolution because it gives too much diplomatic freedom of movement to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The resolution sets out a number of conditions, it makes a certain reservation; in short, it actually makes it possible for the Minister of Foreign Affairs not to proceed immediately to the recognition of the Palestinian State. The next question is what the Minister will do. Mrs Lijnen has just called for optimism and confidence in the government. Colleagues, based on the statements of Minister Reynders. He said in committee on 19 November 2014 what he would do with the resolution. He said at that time that he would only accept the recognition of the Palestinian State at the end of the negotiation process if Israel agreed to it. Mrs Lijnen, Mrs Claerhout and Mr De Roover, what you are doing is actually giving Israel a right of veto. If Israel says njet, then it is njet and you accept it. In other words, you are resigning to the stalemate in the Middle East, which has been going on for 25 years now, when perhaps we should not be so naive with Parliament and could ask the government, and therefore also the rebellious Minister Reynders, for even demand immediate and unconditional recognition of the Palestinian State. You deliberately refuse that!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u179	Mr Van der Maelen, you are talking about a breach. I believe that with our resolution we are taking a step forward, and I will stick with that. The difference between the majority resolution and your resolution, which I have also read, is that you are accusing us of exactly what you are blaming us for. Your resolution exudes the condemnation and criticism of Israel. You do not argue for the recognition of the state. You simply condemn Israel. That certainly does not seem to me to be the way of what you call the diplomatic space. This does not seem to me to be the way for the recognition of the Palestinian State or for any positive contribution to the conflict.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u180	Mr Luykx, we ask for the immediate recognition of Palestine, because we believe that this is beneficial for various reasons. Firstly, we think it is necessary to send a strong signal to Israel. This analysis is shared by Nobel Prize winner of Economics Daniel Kahneman, by several ministers in previous governments, Ran Cohen, Yossi Sarid, by several former members of the Knesset, Avnery, Yael Dayan, Mossi Raz, Naomi Chazan, by Amos Oz and David Grossman. Those people of Jewish origin, Israeli citizens, are begging for such a position, because their government is creating an insoluble problem. They are asking for swift action, otherwise there will be no two-state solution. For those who do not believe that, you do know that Netanyahu plans to change the Israeli constitution and transform Israel from a secular state into a Jewish state? You've read all that, haven't you? You believe that this government, this likely new majority, will want to work on a two-state solution? Please, Einstein would call that super stupidity. I'm rounding up. I would like to inform my colleague, Mr Miller, immediately because he has had a great anger outburst followed by a remark from me in committee. However, I will repeat them, because I believe in them. Why does the majority take a turn? Mr Vanvelthoven has just rightly stated that the majority is very soft in the fight against fraud against the powerful, the strong and the rich, while it is very hard in the fight against social fraud, against the weak. Now, the turn we are seeing here is the translation of the majority's domestic choices into foreign policy: it is very soft towards Israel, but it is very hard for the weakest party in the conflict, Palestine. If you have another explanation why you're taking the turn, I'd like to hear it. I would like to conclude that there is a constant situation, and that this may be a credit to you, and that there is coherence in your policies, both domestic and foreign: the weak are caught and the strong are spared.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u181	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in particular, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the title of the resolution we are going to vote on earlier is very different from the content it contains. He said anything other than what the other parliaments on this continent had voted for, namely the unconditional recognition of Palestine. To recognize Palestine immediately and unconditionally was the content of our own resolution, which we tabled on those benches in November. We had taken as a model the British model which was straight to the point and which simply said: "We recognize Palestine now". Your recognition, however, is conditioned by the very hypothetical existence of a moment considered the most opportune, the famous three conditions that were repeated in the envi. I won't come back. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you play with the feet of the Palestinians and drag your feet! However, in this conflict – as has been said many times – we have lost enough time. This slowness – I am surprised that this has not yet been noted in this debate – contrasts with the extraordinary speed with which this parliament and then the government recognized Kosovo in 2008, when at the time no conditions were issued by the parliament and a fortiori by the government to recognize that state, while the international political and legal context of the time was, to say the least, extremely delicate. Indeed, the famous UN Resolution 1244 provided for the maintenance of the territorial integrity of Yugoslavia, which later became Serbia. This did not prevent the Belgian government from recognizing independent Kosovo. From then on, take your courage with two hands! In the case of Palestine, there were more than 70 resolutions concerning the immediate and unconditional recognition of Palestine since 1948 and all of them were in the same direction: giving a State to the Palestinians. International law is with the Palestinians and with all democrats. We must be deaf not to realize that a movement has been born in Europe for a few months. In Belgium, and this has not yet been said, the parliaments of the federated entities have voted one after the other in resolutions calling on the government to be able to recognize Palestine, which is its exclusive competence. The European Parliament also calls on its Member States to recognize Palestine unconditionally, contrary to what you say, Mr De Roover. All the European representatives of the democratic parties represented in this House voted in favour of this resolution, Mr De Roover. By voting on this federal resolution, the House goes against the meaning of history. Why? Because recognizing Palestine now means putting the Palestinians on an equal footing with the Israelis, who have had a state since 1948. The immediate recognition of Palestine is de facto denouncing the Israeli colonization of the occupied territories, which prevents the continuation of the peace process and obviously makes the existence of a Palestinian State impossible. The real recognition of Palestine is, and has not yet been said, cutting the grass under the foot of those criminals who, in Belgium and elsewhere in Europe, are recruiting candidates for jihad in Iraq and Syria. The injustice that the Palestinians have experienced for decades is obviously not the only fuel for these fascists and terrorists. On the other hand, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the domination of Palestinians on their territory are systematically mobilized as arguments by these Daesh fascists. Take your courage with two hands! Musel these fascists by showing that Europe, starting with Belgium, is on the side of the Palestinians! Mr President, the debate has already lasted too long. In conclusion, as ecologists, we regret this missed opportunity. The future of the Palestinians depends on the dignity that other states, starting with European states, can offer them. Today, but you can still change your mind, Belgium has not had the courage to give them that dignity, and we regret it! That is why we are going to vote against this false recognition resolution!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u182	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, without wishing to discriminate, like other colleagues, I would have liked the Minister of Foreign Affairs to honour us with his presence to discuss such an important subject. But as was the case in committee, neither is he present today. However, a lengthy debate on the various motions for resolutions and the amendments that have been tabled has already taken place in committee and in this House. So everyone's position is now well known. There is little doubt about the outcome of the plenary vote. As was the case two weeks ago, it will therefore be a majority vote against opposition. As Mr. Van Der Maelen, earlier, the motion for a resolution written by the Government will, unfortunately, be adopted by our House. In doing so, the House of Representatives will become one of the least ambitious European parliaments on this issue. Contrary to what has been voted in the United Kingdom, Ireland, France, Sweden and the European Parliament, to mention only the most recent examples, the majority's motion for a resolution is so unclear, so tiring, so subject to a succession of conditions – experience and debates have shown how impossible these conditions are to be fulfilled within a reasonable time – so undemanding to our government that it becomes totally ineffective. A real empty shell is what your motion for a resolution is. It's just wind, just wind! It was doubtful, since on 19 November last the Minister for Foreign Affairs declared in committee that Belgium's position was known and that it would not change. As I said, we are facing an empty shell here. This motion for a resolution understands nothing, nothing that was already known. It reflects nothing more than the position expressed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on November 19, 2014. Yet, it has been the subject of a full page and even the front page of some major daily newspapers that have been hit by the government's communication. Clearly, this government and the majority in place have decided to stay on the side. They have let pass the indisputable momentum, referring to the policies carried out in Europe over the last few months. By returning a possible recognition of Palestine by Belgium at the time that will be considered the most appropriate, it is your resolution, and by subjecting that same moment to a series of conditions – clearly, Mr De Roover – which we know will not be met soon, we are actually witnessing a reference to the Greek calendiae of this dossier. Some parliamentarians have made it appear in the press that Belgium's position will change, but that will not be the case. In short, it is once again a missed opportunity for Belgium to make its views heard, to mobilise its diplomacy and to show a little more boldness and ambition at international level. Indeed, in addition to immediate recognition by Belgium, there is nothing even in the text of the majority – and it is nevertheless an extraordinary astonishment – in the matter of proactive action by our country with a view to advancing the idea of this recognition of Palestine at European level in order, then, to arrive at a common European position in favour of it. There's nothing. There is no diplomatic action in this area. It is not even said that the government will take its pilgrim stick to go to the other European states to try to have a somewhat bolder common position. No, as usual. I guess we'll just follow others when some decision ends up on another level. It is thus, because of our lack of ambition and voluntarism, that we become on the international stage a less and less significant actor in these important international issues. Either it is the choice of the majority, we regret it, both for the image and the role of our country, for the development of the situation on the ground and for the search for a negotiated solution to the conflict. Nevertheless, this choice is not ours and we want it to be very clear. That is why we decided to resubmit in plenary session the overall amendment that we proposed in committee by my colleague Mrs Vanessa Matz, who presented our proposals during these debates on 20 January. This amendment is intended to be constructive, balanced, clear and complete. He was also supported that day by the other opposition parties. Moreover, it is very much based on the texts already approved in several regional and community assemblies in our country, which also call on the federal government to officially recognize Palestine. But the demands of these federated entities have not been heard further. We believe that the immediate recognition of Palestine would, however, make it possible to change the situation in the conflict, to increase the pressure for a negotiated political solution and, above all, to promote, finally, a change of method which is so much necessary in view of the irremediable blockage of negotiations for years and years. The logic that has prevailed so far was to consider the full recognition of Palestine as the culmination of the peace process, as the final act that would seal the agreements on all other subjects: the question of borders, the question of security, the question of people. This logic failed. The Israeli-Palestinian conflict has become the oldest conflict on the planet. It caused thousands of deaths and terror on both sides. The peace process is completely bogged down. Israeli voices themselves have come to tell us that all this no longer makes any sense. The recognition of Palestine should not depend on Israel as the recognition of Israel has fortunately not depended on arable countries. Who can imagine that by occupying Palestine, by continuing its colonization, we will obtain peace from the Palestinians? Who can imagine it? In the face of this complete blockage of the situation and the ever-present cycle of violence, in the face of the collapse of the peace process initiated in Oslo in 1993, it seems to us unquestionably necessary to change the method. One can only note that the attempts at negotiations between the State of Israel and the Palestinian Authority, in their present form, have not achieved any significant progress. What is to be feared is that this window of opportunity, which was opened so long ago, twenty-two years ago, will be closed forever and that the possibility of the creation of two States side by side will soon be dead letter and permanently impossible. Palestine's legitimate demands for its recognition as a true State in its own right, capable of negotiating equally with Israel, must now be heard. It is now necessary to recognize the State of Palestine, alongside the State of Israel, both as independent, democratic, sovereign, one-sided, viable States living side by side in peace and security, recognizing each other with mutually recognized and respected borders. I would remind you that these are all notions drawn from the various conclusions of the European Council. In this context, it also seems to us essential not to lose ourselves in the many complex aspects of the conflict or to take sides unilaterally. We must recognize this complexity of the situation, condemn the violence on both sides, recognize the legitimate demands and rights of everyone, including Israel's right to defend itself and assume its security, while condemning Israel's repressive policy of collective punishment of the Palestinians. That is what our amendment is doing in the context of a balanced approach, and these are, in our view, essential and inescapable elements. All these elements of complexity (security, territory, borders, populations, access to water) are elements that will be much better addressed by countries that discuss equally with the assistance and political and legal instruments of the International Community. Our proposed amendment also recalls that this request for recognition follows the admission, on 29 November 2012, of the Palestinian Authority as a State – already a State – a non-member observer of the United Nations and is therefore part of a process that has been under way for several months and which has seen European parliaments and governments ask for official recognition or formally decide on it. Palestine is, therefore, already a state – we must recall – and is already recognized as such. To recognize it as a Member State of the United Nations is ultimately only the ultimate step that will allow us to return to other bases in order to achieve peace and security for all. In this context, our amendment also hopes that Belgium, together with its immediate recognition of the State of Palestine, will continue to act with its European partners in order to reach a common position. It is important for Europe too to move forward and be bolder in this respect, in favour of the official recognition of the State of Palestine. Finally, it must be noted that the motion for a resolution tabled by the Members of the majority is not part of any of the above points, which the CDH considers essential. Hence our decision to resubmit our amendment in plenary session and not to vote in favour of the text of the majority, which is, I repeat, powder to the eye. In conclusion, I will quote Elie Barnavi, former Ambassador of Israel to France, a great humanist and eminent historian, who himself called for the immediate recognition of the State of Palestine: "the natural right of peoples to self-determination does not depend on the goodwill of their opponents. If the Jews had waited for the agreement of the Arabs to create their state, they would still wait." What we need to negotiate is the borders of the Palestinian State, not its right to exist. That is the real meaning of the amendment that we are resubmitting today. And that is not at all what the majority is doing with its text.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u183	Mr President, the advantage of speaking at the end of a debate is that we have heard almost all the arguments. I have to say, I had a good time here tonight. On the one hand, there is a Flemish national party which relies on the right of self-determination of the peoples and today makes self-determination subordinate to the veto of another people. I'll make that clear, so be it. I hope that the N-VA will never do that to Flanders and the Flemings and that we will not subordinate our legitimate struggle for independence to what the Walls think, because then it will never happen. On the other hand, I enjoyed myself very much, because the left-wing and extreme left-wing parties are today the great advocates of the independence of a people and the creation of a Palestinian State. We know this holy outrage from the left when it comes to peoples far away: the independence of the Uighurs, of the Kyrgyzstanns in Asia, perhaps also of the Papeete in French Polynesia. The Eskimo people in Greenland may also be able to count on the sympathy of socialists, greens and relatives, but oh woe to us when it comes to the justified sighs not from peoples thousands of kilometres away, but from peoples who live here, the place where we meet today: Flemings and Walls. Perhaps we could have that debate too, and I hope that the Left, the PS, sp.a, Mr Van der Maelen and co, Mrs Onkelinx, the Green and Ecolo representatives, will be equally enthusiastic, equally fanatical, improving that right of self-determination, not for peoples somewhere in the Middle East or in Asia or in South America, but here with us. That logic may be a little too far-fetched, so we shouldn't talk about it today, but I had a good time. With the Flemish Interest, we will abstain in the vote on the resolution before us. If the view is that the Palestinians are indeed entitled to a state of their own, then we must be so bold as to say so, Mr De Roover. This does not need to be subordinated to all kinds of conditions that you list. The question is whether the Palestinians should have their own state and, if so, under what circumstances they are entitled to their own state. Or has this question not yet been asked, all this Palestinian question, in the end, just an attempt by Islam to bully Israel, to stab a knife in the back and, if possible, to discredit the rest of the world, and, if possible, to make it disappear from the face of the earth? Maybe that last statement isn't even that far-fetched. We are not abstaining in the vote because we believe that the issue in the Middle East does not concern us. This is a matter of concern to us, even if only because the Islamic jihad in Europe is so rooted that Jews are currently leaving Europe massively and moving to Israel, hoping to be safer there than here. No matter how we turn it or turn it around, in the city where I live, in Antwerp, we have quite experience with these things: not the pro-Palestinian demonstrations need heavy police security, but, unfortunately, the gatherings of Jews. Not the mosques, the Qur'an schools and the Arabic non-zw rooms are guarded by the army and the police, but the synagogues, the Jewish schools and other Jewish institutions. Today, in other words, more than ever, it is demonstrated why the Jewish people need a safe, defendable, own state. When I hear in 2015 in the streets of European capitals shout: "Hamas," "Hamas," "all Jews on the gas," I am especially not naive when the discussion needs to be conducted. Islamic hatred of Jews is not provoked by Israel, as some claim, but Israel hatred comes from Islamic hatred of Jews. It is paradoxical that the European Jews, on the run from the jihad, are currently moving in large numbers to Israel, a state that has been threatened for nearly a hundred years by the same Islamic jihad and, however we turn it or turn it, the Palestinians have become the demographic spearhead for their own shame. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a number of comments are important when discussing this resolution. I would also like to mention the wretched fate of many hundreds of thousands and even millions of Palestinians living in the neighbouring countries of Israel, such as Lebanon or Jordan. To their fate no rooster crows. Are the Palestinians in Lebanon and Jordan worth less than the Palestinians in Gaza or the so-called West Bank? Indeed, it seems too strong that the fate of the Palestinians is only important when Jews are involved. When the Palestinians are treated as scum by their Arab and Islamic brothers, who, by the way, would rather lose the Palestinians than be rich, it usually remains silent. After all, that does not fit in with the context of the story that one wants to tell. The Palestinian question must serve primarily to discredit Israel. The Palestinians' right to self-determination therefore deserves better. However, however we turn or reverse that right of self-determination is now being abused to first undermine Israel. The Western obsession with everything Israel does or leaves behind has everything to do with the Islamization and arabisation of our society. As a result, Israel is not only mentioned as a source of more and more disaster. Israel is also subject to much higher standards and criteria than any other country in the world. If Israel were not a Jewish democratic state and not a rule of law, where democracy is ultimately applied as one of the only countries in the whole region, there would be no cock crows to the Palestinians. When France wanted to recognise the Palestinian State a few months ago, Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu rightly said, and I quote: "Does it really have anything better to do in Europe, at a time when all over the Middle East is decapitating, killing and robbing radical Islam?' I do indeed wonder, ladies and gentlemen, where is the indignation about Morocco's occupation of Western Sahara? Where is the movement of the Left and others, about Turkey's occupation of Northern Cyprus? Where is the indignation over the fate of the Kurds, about the fate of the Druzes and about the fate of so many Christian minorities in the Middle East who are persecuted by Islam, and not only by radical Islam, Mr Van der Maelen? Then the East Indian remains deaf in the left camp. They have no ears for that, because it does not fit into the multicultural picture. That is the reality you keep ignoring. Why is more than 40% of all United Nations resolutions on the democratic rule of law on Israel and not on the terrible human rights violations such as Sudan, Nigeria or North Korea? What's with the double standard all the time? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to place something historic. That is what we need when we talk about the recognition of the Palestinian State. First of all, for the purity of the debate and semantic hygiene, this resolution is not about the so-called Arab-Israeli conflict, as I read in the resolution. The Arab-Israeli conflict must be described as an Islamic-Jewish conflict. That is the reality. It is not about Palestine, because Palestine is much larger than the piece of land within Israel, or just about all of Israel as some would like. We are talking about a larger territory, which extends far into Jordan and even into Egypt, but of course nobody cares. The truth is, however we spin it or reverse it, that the umma, the global Islamic community, does not dare to respect and tolerate a non-Islamic state on what she calls the dar al-Islam, the house of Islam. Area not under Islamic rule is called al-harb, which means the house of war. That dar al-harb is, according to Islam, fought by feeding the jihad until Sharia applies. That is the fate of Israel. Israel is the dar al-harb, the land of unbelief, of the kafirs, and must therefore disappear. That is why the Palestinian question is being used and abused to turn the dr al-harb, Israel, the dr al-Islam, the land of Islam. That is the essence, not of the Arab-Israeli but of the Jewish-Islamic conflict. The often heard Islamic slogan that falls after Jerusalem Rome is in line with the Arab proverb that comes after Saturday Sunday, which means as much as: after the Jews the Christians, Palestinian State or not, are going to die. In essence, we are talking here about a clash of civilizations, as Huntington described it, or a clash between freedom and civilization on the one hand and jihad and Islamic barbarism on the other. Whatever it may be, for me Israel is the outpost of the free West, not free from error, let that be clearly stated, but nevertheless a light of freedom and democracy in a desert of Islamic totalitarian thinking. Anyone who knows a little about Israel and has already been there can and will have to agree to that. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, apart from all the debates on the history of the conflict and the disputes over eventually tiny pieces of territory and apart from all the detailed military-technical analyses and partisan pro-Palestinian reports of the United Nations and its associates, one should simply look at the true, deeper intentions of both parties in the conflict, which can simply be summarized by the next finding. When the Islamic world lays down its weapons today and abandons its anti-Semitic hatred, there will be peace in the Middle East tomorrow. If Israel lays down its weapons today, it will simply be wiped off the map tomorrow. Golda Meir, de vierde eerste minister van Israël, vatte dit treffend samen: “Peace will come when the Arabs start to love their children more than they hate us.” There will be peace when the Arabs' love for their children is greater than their hatred of the Jews. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, however we turn or turn, we cannot ignore the fact that for a century the Islamic world has been fighting the Jewish right to a peaceful existence in a viable state in what is a historic country for them, Israel. Since 1937, the two-state solution, which the Flemish Interest supports, has been rejected by the Arabs over and over again. The true reason and also uncomfortable truth is that they will never tolerate a Jewish State on what they consider to be exclusive Islamic territory. Why else do you think that in schools and squares, both in Gaza and in Westbank and elsewhere in Palestine, there is singing: "From the river to the sea, Palestine will be free." For the record, they are talking about the Mediterranean, the water border of Israel. From the river to the sea, Palestine will be free, by the way, is the barely hidden call to drive the Jews in Israel into the sea. Both in Gaza and the West Bank, jihadists who kill innocent Jews are glorified. Both in Gaza and the West Bank, anti-Semitism is practised from Islamic sources on which Hitler would actually be jealous. The anti-Semitic charter of Hamas states that Israel must be destroyed. And Abbas repeats that he refuses to recognize Israel as a Jewish state. In this context, Israel is considered to recognise Palestine and give very important parts of its territory to the Palestinian State. Israel is not naive and I do not want to be naive. Those who fail to see that Hamas, Fatah and the PLO differ only in strategy and tactics and not in purpose have little understanding of them. Then we have not even discussed the Shia threat from the axis of Iran-Hezbollah or Islamic State, which, moreover, is increasingly nestling in the famous Palestinian territories. The fact that we believe from our Western, rational logic that something can and will change about it through international law principles and all kinds of UN resolutions is laughably naive, but, perhaps even more importantly, it is also dangerous. Finally, Mr Van der Maelen, I would like to ask you why a Palestinian State was not established between 1948 and 1967? What happened between 1948 and 1967? During this period of several decades, not Israel but Egypt and Jordan occupied the Gaza Strip and the West Bank. Why did the Arab Islamic brothers from Jordan and Egypt, who are now so fiercely pro-Palestinian, not do so for decades? It is a question I have been asking myself for years, and it seems that no one can come up with an answer. Ladies and gentlemen, do we not grant the Palestinians their own state? Of course I do. Do the Palestinians have the right to their own state? As a nationalist, my answer is yes. However, that own State may as well be in Jordan or elsewhere. Does that have to be in the heart of Israel, a tiny country that is already suffering so much? That's just the question. When we talk about the two-state solution, the key question is not whether the Palestinians are entitled to a state. The key question is whether the Palestinians, the Arab world and the Muslims want an Israeli state. Will they ever tolerate a Jewish state, a country like Israel? We must not be so naive as not to realize that for many, and certainly for Islam, there is another agenda behind the agenda of a Palestinian State, namely to damage Israel and, if it is possible, to stab it in the back, destroy it and wipe it off the map. This will ensure that my party will not vote in favour of this resolution, but will abstain. The Flemish interest is in favour of a Palestinian State, but not at the expense of Israel, and not as long as PLO, Hamas, Fatah and co Israel want to destroy and ultimately only abuse the Palestinian people's efforts towards an independent state to touch Israel and put their radicalist agenda into practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u184	Mr President, Madam Minister, two peoples are suffering from a conflict that has lasted too long and for which the international community and, in particular, the European Union have not fully assumed their responsibilities to initiate a peace process with the will to compel the parties to join in and to seek a conclusion by concluding a peace agreement. I am not taking the floor with just one thought for one of the parties. I take the floor by being aware that the insecurity that regularly threatens the State of Israel is just as worrying as the unacceptable conditions imposed by the State of Israel on the Palestinian people. We must be clear: Hamas' terrorist acts are just as reprehensible as Israeli occupation settlements in the West Bank or Gaza. Today, it is no longer in Gaza, but it was for a time. It is therefore necessary, each time, to have as the sole criterion for assessing the situation the full application of international law. All United Nations resolutions are constant and remind us of what international law condemns both in the attitude of one or the other of the parties to the conflict. But today there is a worrying development. When I echoed the words of the European Council in 1999, 16 years ago, at a meeting in Berlin, they reaffirmed "the continuous and unreserved right of the Palestinians to self-determination with the option of a State" and in 1999, the European Council added that "it welcomed the speedy realization of this right, which cannot be subject to any veto". "Fast evolution for the Palestinian State to be recognized without any veto." I have long been among those who thought that if there was no will to achieve a peace process on the part of the Palestinians, the recognition of the Palestinian State should be held in abeyance. It happens that today it is Israel that makes it impossible to seek a peace process with the Palestinians. The continued development of settlements in violation of international law means that Israel gradually resolves itself to the conviction that the Palestinian State must never exist. This conviction is taking precedence because within a right which, since 1977, has held the high drachma in the Israeli political world, the most fanatical religious current prevails with a Messianic vision of the extension of the State of Israel. It is a religious fanaticism that is leading the State of Israel to an impasse as to the coexistence of the two States on a peaceful basis and in accordance with United Nations resolutions. This choice, which has never been called into question in a manner determined by the international community and which ultimately leads to a perilous confrontation between religious fanatics who have a retrograde conception of the historical role of the Jewish State, and those who, opposite, will never recognize the state of Hamas, this confrontation can have repercussions not only in the region but also beyond. When I heard Mrs Jadin tell us here that Hamas must first commit itself to recognizing the State of Israel before we can even consider the recognition of the Palestinian State, I wondered what it wanted. For those who come to say this, either they agree to negotiate with Hamas – which will never be my position, nor that of all those who are convinced that there is no room for negotiation with Hamas – or they simply want to ensure that the outcome of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is dependent only on Hamas' will. They hold all the Palestinian people hostage to Hamas, which is far removed from the demand for recognition of a Palestinian State. To believe for a moment that Hamas has as its primary concern the recognition of a Palestinian state is obviously to make a serious error of analysis. It is to give Hamas a dominant position, which will be totally deadly, in relation to democratic forces or those who still have the will among the Palestinian people to make a choice other than joining Hamas. I cannot therefore understand the syllogism that says: "no recognition of the Palestinian State until Hamas has recognized the Israeli State". It's just the game of fanatics on both sides. This is a choice that we cannot accept. Then yes! Because the State of Israel is now in this power relationship with the Palestinians stronger than the PLO, the international community has been waiting for so many years for the State of Israel to take the first steps, starting by freezing all settlements, no longer accepting new ones, returning at least to some totally unacceptable colonizations, far beyond what has been considered at some point as the security glacis of the State of Israel, returning at least to that, to the first circle and, again, to debatable in international law. As long as the State of Israel does not have this will, it is because it does not have the will to really engage in a peace negotiation process and it is ultimately to turn the region over to the most fanatical auctions, especially those of Hamas. That is why, in the international community and especially in Europe, several voices consider that in order to rebalance the negotiations, it is necessary to give to those who, on the Palestinian side, can contribute to the search for peace – they are no longer very numerous, we must not be mistaken, but there are still, fortunately, certain political forces – the decisive argument to be able to tell the Palestinian people that they are achieving results. Nothing is worse than closing the door to any hope for the Palestinian people to have a chance to found their State. We can no longer wait ten, fifteen, twenty years for a response to this expectation of the Palestinian people. I heard the majority say that we need to find the right time. That has been said in the international community for 20 years. I heard the majority say: "Be reassured, our objectives are not conditions of recognition". I have tabled an amendment which could be the subject of a consensus, if the sincerity of Mr. Roover and others are real. This amendment echoes the remarks made by the majority: "... calls on the federal government to recognize the Palestinian State as a State and subject of international law, in accordance with international law". Who could be opposed to this goal? In addition, I call for attention to be paid to the following objectives: "... without it being considered that these objectives are conditions to which recognition is conditional". That's exactly what Mr. De Roover told us, Mr Luykx. Read! What is wrong with reading your text becomes explicit after hearing you: everything becomes clear! I can, without problem, endorse this text. I am quite prepared to say that the aim must be the positive impact of this recognition, the aim of which is to revive or support an inclusive political process of negotiations between Israel and Palestine, the evolution of the dialogue between the Member States of the European Union and the existence of a full-fledged Palestinian Government. These are undoubtedly goals that need to be pursued and with which the government can work together. You yourself said that these were not conditions. In this case, make the motion for a resolution that you submit to Parliament clear and unambiguous. In doing so, your proposal will be the subject of a broad consensus or even unanimity. It seems to me that this would be a major step forward. If you do not, stop telling us that you do not put conditions, when you do, in disregard of the real search for peace in this region.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u185	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will be brief because many things have already been said. I will, however, report to you two observations that I made during a mission to Palestine at the end of last year. The first is that all our interlocutors on the spot have told us that recognition of the Palestinian State is very important, even if it is not the only thing to do. The second observation highlights what has been happening in the Middle East for more than twenty years, namely that since the Oslo process, the number of settlers has been doubled. This clearly means that Israel's policy is to torpedo the peace negotiations and implement the policy of fait accompli. When one goes to Palestine, one finds that day after day Israel continues to move illegally into the Palestinian territories, it inexorably occupies space. The resolution put forward by the majority supports and reinforces this process, as it is fully in line with this logic. In its resolution, the majority put forward three conditions. If this term doesn't suit you, you can use another term, but I don't see a more appropriate term. What are these three conditions? First, you say that the Palestinian State will be recognized when the negotiations are resumed. However, as I have just said, Israel does not want to do so and inexorably pursues colonization. Secondly, you have to wait for the issue to move forward at the level of the European Union, while Belgium should do the opposite, i.e. recognise the Palestinian State in order to make progress at the level of the European Union. You have to take things from the other end of the lorgnette. The third condition, for the majority, is that the Palestinian Government must have full authority over its entire territory, while it is clear that this is impossible as long as Israel maintains its current policy. It is Israel that is preventing the fulfilment of your conditions for the recognition of the Palestinian State. Therefore, I advise you to reformulate your resolution in the following way: "We ask the government not to recognize the Palestinian State, unless, through the greatest miracles, Israel fundamentally changes its policy in order to make this recognition possible". If you made your proposal to that effect, you would be much closer to the real spirit of your resolution. I will conclude by recalling facts. Israel continues to violate international law as it has for decades. Israel is committing war crimes. Israel killed more than 2,000 people in Gaza last year, mostly civilians, 2,000 people, one quarter of whom are children, 500 children were killed. Currently in Gaza, because of the destruction of houses, because of the blockade that led to the suppression of the supply of electricity and heating, because of Israel's policy, children are dying of cold. I believe that such considerations must also be taken into account when it comes to adopting a resolution like this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u186	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many things have been said. So I'll be brief. The Prime Minister, like Mr Vals or other European leaders, strongly recalled that Europe without the Jews would not be Europe, Belgium without the Jews would no longer be Belgium. Yet, in the face of the rise of anti-Semitism, many Jews leave Europe, especially for Israel, the only State where they can find refuge as such. Ladies and gentlemen, as Europe faces barbarism, we are witnessing a deluge of resolutions that ignore reality and aim to stigmatise Israel, the only refuge of the Jews, to which we are struggling to assume a future here, and this, in an urgent fashion, all cases ceasing, as if we had lessons to give. I support the self-determination of peoples, but I believe that peace must first be established between the Palestinian Authority and Israel and arms should be silenced. All neighbouring States were bankrupt and in the throes of civil war. Hamas is, as I know, still a terrorist organization and even PLO representatives continue to demand the destruction of Israel. The granting of State status to Palestine in the current state of affairs would be an absolute mistake that the People's Party cannot accept. I will vote against the proposal made to us by the majority, just as I would have voted against the opposition's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u187	Mr De Vriendt, you are the last speaker registered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u188	Unless, of course, Members still feel called to say something. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the record, we have been discussing the possible recognition of Palestine for several hours. That recognition is not a miracle solution anyway, we have to be honest about it. We are discussing a resolution here and a resolution is a question from Parliament to the government to do something. The more concise, concrete and precise that question, the greater the chance that the government will give a positive answer to it and implement it. Now we have two choices. We have, on the one hand, the choice, which I call the N-VA choice, because the N-VA has nevertheless been the great leader of the majority resolution. The N-VA choice is to subordinate the recognition of the Palestinian State to a number of conditions. If we look at these conditions carefully, the government doesn't really have to do anything. It does not really need to go into the recognition of a Palestinian State. It's a weakness offer and the emperor has no clothes on. If we adopt the resolution of the N-VA, nothing will happen. Why? I just told you. We ask the government, but Didier Reynders has already made clear what he thinks of the recognition of the Palestinian State. For our Foreign Minister, this recognition can only follow at the end of a negotiated process, i.e. after Israel's agreement. In other words, we, as a Parliament, are putting ourselves on the spot if we do not demand the unconditional recognition of the Palestinian State from the government. You don't do that with the N-VA resolution. So, ladies and gentlemen, the result will be nil. The second choice we have is to adopt the resolution of what I call the sensible opposition, the progressive opposition. It calls for a positive step forward, as soon as possible an unconditional recognition of the Palestinian State. We believe that this is necessary to give oxygen to the debate, to take a positive step forward, to place Palestine on an equal footing with Israel and to send a particularly strong signal to Israel when it comes to respect for international law. Colleagues, what is the context? The context is one of 25 years of deadlock in the peace negotiations between Israel and Palestine. Israeli and Palestinian citizens are the targets of violence. The number of Israeli settlements on the West Bank tripled. Through the partition wall, which was erected, Israel annexed up to 10% of the West Bank, 10% of what is recognised as a legitimate Palestinian area by international law. So far we have taken a cautious approach from Israel. Let's see what that cautious approach has done. It didn't lead to anything. This gives rise to growing frustration in many European countries and even in the White House. After all, the situation in the Middle East is increasingly damaging our security interests. Worldwide, Muslim extremists are gaining support, including by referring to the Palestinian catastrophe. Terror is no longer confined to inhospitable areas in Afghanistan and Pakistan, but has reached our capitals. There is a growing awareness that we must resolve the conflict between Israel and Palestine, also for the sake of our own security. Then why is the recognition of Palestine important? I have already said that it is not a miracle solution, but it is important, because we believe that the recognition of Palestine can be a lever to pull the negotiations out of the swamp. If you do not think so, ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to give me an alternative. We are making a proposal, which is supported by arguments. You're rejecting that. Then what is your alternative to pulling the negotiations out of the swamp? When the present Israeli diplomacy fails over and over again and the occupation continues and deeper around it, other recipes are needed. Het werd hier al gezegd:insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results. More and more countries are aware that the recognition of Palestine sends a symbolic, yet clear political signal that a redrafting of the legitimate 1967 borders is unacceptable and that Israel needs to invest more in peace. It creates, as it were, a level playing field between Israel and Palestine, and thus the recognition breaks the status quo, which drives every observer to despair. Ladies and gentlemen, it is no more than the ratification of the internationally recognized frontiers of 1967. What have other countries done? Are we the only ones who would make an unconditional commitment to the recognition of Palestine? No, Sweden recognised the Palestinian State on 30 October 2014. 134 other countries have already preceded the EU Member State. More importantly, however, Sweden's unilateral decision triggered a fierce debate. Since then, many parliaments have adopted resolutions, which have vigorously demanded the recognition of Palestine. I would like to mention some of them: Great Britain, Luxembourg, France, Ireland and also the European Parliament. Belgium is limping behind. The majority parties, the MR, the N-VA, CD&V and Open Vld, stubbornly cling to Israel's soft approach: let's keep Israel as a friendly country and let's not push Israel too hard. Colleagues, I would like to draw a parallel with the recognition of Kosovo in 2008. How did that recognition happen? It happened through a very brief royal decision and hardly a debate here in Parliament. The government quickly recognised Kosovo in 2008. There was no question of the conditions now imposed by the Belgian Government on the recognition of Palestine. So we are working with two sizes and two weights. Firstly, in the Palestine resolution, the majority parties are talking about a necessary positive impact of recognition, so that peace negotiations are quickly restarted. What peace negotiations are we talking about, however? After all, Prime Minister Netanyahu refuses to stop the construction of illegal settlements. Last week there was another press release, which showed that illegal construction is continuing: 550 new homes in illegal Israeli settlements. In 2008, the reaction of Russia and Serbia to the possible recognition of Kosovo was equally furious. Nevertheless, then Minister for Foreign Affairs, Karel De Gucht defended the recognition, I quote, by pointing out that no progress has been made in the negotiations with the Serbs and Russia on a solution and that a different scenario has been introduced. Ladies and gentlemen, that is the same as the situation today. Nevertheless, the lack of a negotiated solution is being invoked today as an argument not to go too quickly with the recognition of Palestine. Secondly, the consensus between the European Member States is also important for the government parties before recognizing the Palestinian State. As Mr van der Maelen has just said, this consensus is obviously lacking. You must know that as well as we do. A country like Germany will never confront Israel for emotional-historical reasons, but not for rational reasons. We can regret that, but it is a fact. However, the condition of the European consensus did not apply to the recognition of Kosovo, as countries such as Spain, Cyprus and Greece have still not recognised Kosovo. Thirdly, a full Palestinian government is being asked to exercise control over the whole of Palestinian territory. That is an impossible condition, because Israel itself colonizes Palestine and has not only annexed a large part of East Jerusalem and the West Bank, but also de facto controlled it. In 2008, the legal and political status of Kosovo was in fact equally precarious. Kosovo, for example, did not have an army to guard its own territory. At that time, however, all these questions were apparently no objection to our country, but they are now. The Swedish Foreign Minister, Mrs Wallström, recently said the following in connection with the recognition of Palestine by Sweden: "Some say that our decision to recognise a Palestinian State is premature." I fear, however, that it is already too late. It is a pity that colleagues Peter De Roover and Peter Luyckx are no longer present. We would like to make an appeal. Mrs Smeyers and Mrs Demir, perhaps you can make that appeal to your fellow Members, because the N-VA speakers on foreign policy have now disappeared remarkably. The Foreign Minister is already missing, and there is no such thing as the great leader of this resolution, which will lead nowhere. You're here without any foreign affairs spokesperson. However, I would like to make my appeal. I would like to refer to a press release by the predecessor of the N-VA, the People's Union, on 7 December 2000. The current Flemish Prime Minister, Geert Bourgeois, was then President of the People's Union. I'll read you what he said then. Following conflicts between Israel and the Palestinians, the current Prime Minister asked: the withdrawal of the Belgian Ambassador from Israel, the suspension of the cooperation agreement between our country and Israel, the suspension of the discussion of the European Association Agreement and the recognition of a Palestinian State with East Jerusalem as its capital. What happened to the People's Union? What happened to the strength of indignation you had at the time? I note that the N-VA is now wallowing comfortably in the plush of power and is now in favour of a resolution which does not give too much force to the status quo, and which actually prolongs the deadlock in the Middle East. We hope that you will come to your senses after this debate which is coming to an end. If you move, there is a majority of change, ladies and gentlemen, in order to proceed to the unconditional and immediate recognition of the Palestinian State. A vote against the immediate and unconditional recognition of the Palestinian State is a vote for Israel's illegal settlement policy, for the growing frustration among many Palestinian young people, for the insecurity in the Middle East. So think carefully when you push the voting button.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u189	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u190	6 "Olivia Maingain" (721/6) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u191	The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u192	The candidates were heard on 14, 20 and 28 January 2015 in the Committee for the Interior, the General Affairs and the Public Service. The Chair of the Committee reported on these hearings at the Conference of Presidents of 4 February 2015. The candidates were heard on 14, 20 and 28 January 2015 in the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service. The chairman of the committee reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 4 February 2015. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 4 February 2015, I propose to announce a new call to candidates for the mandate of President in the Belgian Official Journal. Applications shall be submitted no later than 30 days after publication of the call. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 4 February 2015, I propose that you publish in the Belgian Moniteur a new call for candidates for the term of office of President. Applications must be submitted no later than 30 days after the publication of the appeal. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u193	At the request of the authors, I propose the motion for a resolution (Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mr Laurent Devin and Mr Emir Kir) on the reduction of the remuneration of managers of autonomous public enterprises, No. 752/1 and the proposal for a resolution (Mr Laurent Devin, Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mr Emir Kir) on the linking of the variable salary of the directors of autonomous public enterprises to the achievement of qualitative objectives for the tasks of public service, No. 820/1 to refer to the Commission for Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises. At the request of the authors, I propose that you refer to the Committee on Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises the motion for a resolution (Ms Karine Lalieux and MM. Laurent Devin and Emir Kir) to moderate the remuneration of managers of autonomous public enterprises, No 752/1 and the motion for a resolution (Mr Laurent Devin, Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mr Emir Kir) to link the variable salary of managers of autonomous public enterprises to the achievement of qualitative objectives in the field of public service missions, No 820/1. These proposals were previously sent to the committee responsible for the problems relating to Trade and Economic Law. These proposals had previously been referred to the Committee on Trade and Economic Law. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u194	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, and with the exception of the proposal No. Mr David Clarinval c.s. I consider it adopted if the request for consideration of his proposal is withdrawn; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the appropriate committees. If there are no comments on this subject and with the exception of Mr David Clarinval et al.'s proposal No 841/1, which calls for the withdrawal of the request to take account of his proposal, I shall take it into consideration as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 4 February 2015, I also propose that you consider: - the bill by Mrs Carina Van Cauter and Mr Luk Van Biesen concerning the duty-free allowance for children in the event of co-parenting (No. 860/1); - the draft law of Mrs Carina Van Cauter and Mr Luk Van Biesen suspending the administrative dispute procedure in the case of tax mediation (No. 861/1), - the legislative proposal of Mrs Carina Van Cauter and Mr Luk Van Biesen on the scope of tax visitation law (No. 862/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u195	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 4 February 2015, I also propose that you take into account: - the proposal for a law by Mrs Carina Van Cauter and Mr Luk Van Biesen on the tax exemption for children in the context of co-parentality (No 860/1); - the proposal for a law by Mrs Carina Van Cauter and Mr Luk Van Biesen suspending the administrative litigation procedure in the event of a tax conciliation (No 861/1); - the proposal for a law by Mrs Carina Van Cauter and Mr Luk Van Biesen on the scope of the right of access of tax officials (No 862/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u196	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I also suggest that you consider: - the draft legislation of Mrs Nathalie Muylle and Mr Roel Deseyn and Mr Jef Van den Bergh amending the legislation relating to the electronic mandate declaration (No. 855/1); - the proposal for a special law by Mrs Nathalie Muylle and Mr Roel Deseyn and Mr Jef Van den Bergh amending the special legislation relating to the electronic mandate declaration (No. 856/1);
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u197	- Ms Nathalie Muylle's bill amending the law on hospitals and other care facilities coordinated on 10 July 2008 as regards the Supplements to Honorary Wage (No. 857/1); - the proposal by Mr Veli Yüksel and Mrs Nahima Lanjri on compensation for the civilian victims of war munitions (Doc. 869/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u198	I also propose that you take into account: - Mrs Nathalie Muylle's and Messrs. Roel Deseyn and Jef Van den Bergh amending legislation with regard to the electronic declaration of mandates (No 855/1); - the proposal for a special law by Mrs Nathalie Muylle and MM. Roel Deseyn and Jef Van den Bergh amending special legislation with regard to the electronic declaration of mandates (No 856/1);
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u199	- Mrs Nathalie Muylle's bill amending the Hospitals and Other Care Facilities Act, coordinated on 10 July 2008, with regard to fee supplements (No. 857/1); - the proposal for a law by Mr Veli Yüksel and Mrs Nahima Lanjri on compensation for civilian victims of munitions of war (No 869/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u200	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u201	Vote on Amendment No 4 of Stéphane Crusnière cs in the preambles and the requesting part. (721/5) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Stéphane Crusnière cs on all recitals and requests. (721/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 50 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 5 by Georges Dallemagne cs on the whole of the preambles and the requesting part. (721/6) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Georges Dallemagne cs on all recitals and requests. (721/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 49 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 129 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 6 by Olivier Maingain on the requesting part. (721/6) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Olivier Maingain on the operative part. (721/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 49 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 129 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u202	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u203	Mr President, after these lengthy debates, I would just like to take the floor again to express my group's position on this resolution. If we are in favour of recognition, we will vote against the resolution proposed by the majority because it does not allow immediate recognition of the State of Palestine. The resolution provides so many impossible conditions that it becomes illusory. Like the rest of the opposition, we would have liked immediate recognition in a two-State solution. We are convinced and confident that the effective recognition of Palestine will be the first step towards a resumption of the peace process.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u204	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 75 Yes No. 52 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (721/7) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (721/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-05-54-plenair-ip030x.u205	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 12 February 2015. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 12 February 2015. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 12 February 2015, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 12 February 2015 at 2.15 p.m.
