ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u1	Mr President, Minister, no one is born a terrorist. Research shows that terrorism is a violent manifestation of radicalisation. As field police officers explain, anyone who ends up associating the gesture with the word and perpetrating a terrorist attack has followed a gradual path of radicalization, during which, most of the time, very specific signs appear. The CoPPRa project has been proposed as a tool for combating radicalisation and terrorism, with a view to better prevention and for early detection of these warning signs. The project, which has been of even greater importance since the last few weeks in which the level of security has been revised upwards in our country, is, however, facing one obstacle: the budget. Indeed, the project consists of a pocket manual that helps the front-line police officer to be attentive to the signs and completes with training. It is my responsibility that very few federal trainers are active. In addition, the implementation of training requires resources. Minister, as a key tool against radicalization and terrorism, is the CoPPRa project sufficiently supported by the government to ensure that its implementation is effective? How many trainers are active to date? How many police officers have been trained so far? What is the quantified objective to be achieved? In the face of the terrorist threat, will there be any means to provide more trainers in our areas and more budget for the application of the training on a larger scale?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u2	Mr President, Madam, to answer your first question, the CoPPRa training is supported by the police authorities, namely the Ministry of the Interior, the police station and the Standing Committee on Local Police (CPPL). A steering group has been set up within the Federal Police, involving the Judicial Police, the National Police Academy, the Federal Police and the local police. Given the sensitive nature of the subject, the Federal Police team remains in close contact with the Ministry of the Interior, the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities, the Federal Police Diversity Service and the P Committee. The CoPPRa training is also mentioned and supported in various circulars, including the one on foreign fighters, as well as Ministerial Circular GPI 78 on the processing of information in favour of an integrated police approach to terrorism and violent radicalization. In case of need, the expertise developed within the CoPPRa network is shared with other services such as the Ministry of the Interior, the Directorate of Security and Prevention as well as with other public institutions responsible for preventing radicalisation and organising training. It should be made clear that the police do not take the initiative to develop prevention programmes and to contribute to them in other departments. It is only an exchange of expertise. As far as your second question is concerned, the trainings started in the second half of 2013 are still intensively given through the various schools. According to figures from January 2015, the target of 10,000 police officers trained in CoPPRa is currently reached. The network consists of 70 trainers in the various districts, including 15 members of the Federal Police and 55 members of the local police. The aim is to organize training for all police personnel in the operational and logistical context, including for new recruits. New types of training such as CoPPRa hands-on training and e-learning modules are being developed. With regard to your third question, the existing network of trainers, to which 20 new trainers have recently been added, is currently sufficient to reach all federal and local police services. The 15 federal trainers we have in our CoPPRa network regularly teach, either at the request of a federal service or through provincial police schools where they train primarily local staff. It is true that federal schools organize less training. It should also be noted that our CoPPRa trainers do not teach full-time courses and are therefore dependent on their personal commitment and availability. The need or need for CoPPRa trainers in each police area is not felt. On the other hand, it seems appropriate for some local police areas to encourage staff to attend training at the nearest police school. Through these schools, training can also be provided in-house, thus minimizing displacement. Additional resources should not be made available. However, it depends on the budgets available to police areas for training and on the priorities set by the areas themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u3	Minister, thank you for these answers. As far as the 70 trainers in Belgium are concerned, this morning I had contact with trainers. They informed me that only 25 trainers are currently active. The others have changed their duties or are pensioners. It would be useful to update the list of trainers. It is also up to me from these trainers that pocket textbooks would no longer be available. It was planned to provide training to those who had completed the training on the same day. For lack of resources, this manual is no longer available. Can you tell me when he's back? It is not possible for police officers to complete the training properly without this manual.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u4	Mr President, the current situation in Belgium in the face of the terrorist threat and the rise in the level of security raise many concerns, as you know. I echo police officers who fear for their lives. They are presented as potential targets by armed terrorist cells. Some police officers, with the consent of their chief of corps, can now return to their homes with their service weapon. Far be it from me to question this security measure, on the contrary. Here I am interested in the practical aspects of this exceptional setting up and the possible impacts on police areas. Indeed, the situation raises, in addition to the essential security issues, the question of responsibilities. Minister, are there specific conditions for the possession of the weapon at home? Is a suitable and secure trunk required to avoid the risk of an accident and, if so, how is it ensured that these conditions are scrupulously complied with? In the event that the police officer is required to use his weapon outside the hours of duty, who is responsible for the act? What is the situation in the event of an accident or misuse of this work tool?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u5	Mr President, Madam, in response to your first question, only the Royal Decree of 3 June 2007 on the arming of the integrated police and the circular GPI 62 of 14 February 2008 which implements it contain provisions relating to the custody and storage of the police armament. The Royal Decree of 3 June 2007 recalls that it is the staff member who is responsible for the proper conservation and proper functioning of the weapons entrusted to him. It is thus obliged to keep them in a secure place outside the reach of third parties and in accordance with the instructions of the competent authority. The competent authority may be the Chief of Staff for the local police, and the Commissioner General, Director General, Directors or Heads of Service for the federal police. Circular GPI 62 sets out general arrangements in this regard, in particular when personnel are allowed to return their weapons to their homes. In such cases, staff members are required to act as a good father and to take appropriate measures to avoid theft, abuse or degradation of the family. However, it merely makes recommendations: - storage of weapons in a secure place and out of sight of third parties; - keeping the firearm in a cabinet or safe that is resistant to break-in or equiping the firearm with an independent device temporarily preventing its use; - storage of the keys of cabinets, chests, boxes or devices in a safe place; - prohibition on keeping a loaded or armed firearm; - storage of ammunition under lock and in a place different from that of firearms. If the competent authority is informed that the staff member fails to comply with the above-mentioned recommendations, it may withdraw the detention permit outside the hours of service, but the monitoring of compliance with these recommendations remains difficult, as there is no legal provision allowing the authority to infringe the privacy of the staff member concerned and the inviolability of his or her home to do so. In answer to your second question, the police officer is, like any other person, the first person responsible for the actions he or she poses. Criminal responsibility for others does not exist in our legal system. It is clear that, regardless of the level of threat, it is still the responsibility of the competent police authorities to ensure that the detention and carrying of weapons, whether in or out of service, by members of their staff does not pose a danger to individuals, in particular due to circumstances related to privacy, psychological, physical or psychological status or lack of training. The police authority, which has elements to enable it to fear that the possession of a weapon by a member of its staff poses a danger to the safety of persons, must take the necessary measures to put an end, as far as is necessary, to such detention. Similarly, the police authority, which is informed that the conditions for the preservation of weapons at a staff member's home are such that there may be a danger to the safety of persons, may not allow that staff member to take his or her weapons home, regardless of the level of threat to the police services. In addition, non-compliance with the instructions given by the authority and the misuse of professional equipment, including weapons, may result in disciplinary sanctions. In addition, pursuant to article 123 of the Act of 7 December 1998 establishing an integrated police service, structured at two levels, police officers are police officers 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. They retain their obligations and legal competence at all times, and therefore even when they are not in service. The principles governing the use of force, including the use of weapons by members of the police, also remain applicable when the police officer acts in that capacity outside his scheduled hours of service. In addition, the conditions for the application of self-defence are uniform, whether it is a police officer or a Lambda citizen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answers. It seemed to me essential to know the exact conditions of possession of weapons but also the control systems in place, apart from those detailed in Circular GPI 62.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u7	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, during the latest raids carried out in the context of terrorist acts in Verviers, police uniforms were found. The Minister of Justice also confirmed this. This is not an isolated case. History shows us enough facts of the same type, usually in the middle of great banditry. Currently, there are no federal, communal or zonal circulars regulating the "after-use" of uniform pieces. In fact, the member of the police can order new pieces of uniform without being asked to return the old ones or to specify how to get rid of them. This, of course, poses a risk of being confronted by people, mostly malevolent, who wear uniforms without permission. Minister, do you intend to legislate or draft a GPI circular on this issue in order to avoid the risk and, moreover, the danger of our "real" police officers facing people wearing police uniforms and no longer knowing how to protect citizens effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u8	Mr President, Mr Carcaci, like many, I was shocked to learn that police uniforms had been found during the operation in Verviers. The judicial investigation is under way and it will also have to shed light on how these uniforms have been found there. I look forward to clarification on this. There is no doubt that we will have lessons to learn from this investigation. At present, there are no specific regulations on the "after-use" of the parts of the basic uniform, both at federal and local level. A study is under way within the Federal Police. As Minister of the Interior, and therefore Minister of Security, I believe that this issue needs to be resolved as soon as possible. It's about our security to everyone, as well as that of our police officers. In fact, the law allows this; this is the law on various domestic provisions of 21 December 2013, in its title II, chapter 1. In this regard, article 10 states that "the King may determine the modalities for the resumption and destruction of the parts of the police uniform". That is why I have asked my administration to prepare the modalities as quickly as possible. With regard to "post-use" uniforms, two options are envisaged: the first would be to assign this responsibility to the police organization; the second would provide for individual police officers to do so. In any case, the solution to be found must focus on the responsibility of the employee, the employer and the individual police officer. It must also have a limited budgetary impact. In the first case, i.e. the case where responsibility is given to the police organization, the police member could only order new pieces of uniform if he or she returns the old ones. It would therefore be up to the police to organise the harvesting and destruction of the coins. In the second case, where responsibility rests with the individual police officer, the police officer could order new uniformed parts only if he specifies how he will dispose of his old parts. I intend to follow this file very closely and to take another royal order as provided for by law this year and draft a GPI circular in this regard to avoid the risks and danger that our real police officers will be confronted with people wearing police uniforms and will no longer be able to protect citizens effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u9	Thank you, Minister, I see that you are going to take action that will be effective, but we need to move quickly. There is not only terrorism, there is also great banditry. Anything that is malicious might wish to commit criminal acts using police uniform.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u10	Mr President, Minister, on 26 November last year, the College of the Joint Community Commission sent a letter to many Brussels institutions in connection with the implementation of the sixth state reform, asking whether they wished to move to the GCC. These are all French-speaking Brussels institutions active in the welfare and health care sector, namely old people's homes, day care centres, rest and nursing homes, guided housing initiatives, institutions with a rehabilitation agreement with RIZIV, local multidisciplinary networks and integrated home care services. Until today, these were subject to COCOF regulations. We are talking about 61 different institutions. It is basically a sort of recruitment practice in Brussels to remove as many of those institutions as possible from under the wings of the COCOF and transfer them to the Joint Committee. On the French-speaking side, that writing has received a massive response. Of the 61 French-speaking institutions in the welfare and health care sector covered by the COCOF regulations, Mr Vanhengel 50 said that this question was addressed. Of the few institutions covered by the VGC, none of them responded to the invitation. For the institutions making the switch to the GGC, a kind of standstill is introduced by the GGC, which would mean that they could temporarily retain their recognition under certain conditions. I do not know what these conditions mean in concrete terms, and we do not have any further information on them. Especially in the area of the rights of Dutch speakers and of the language law, I think this is a problem. All these institutions have so far been monolingual French speaking and now they have to provide bilingual services from one day to the next if they are covered by the GGC. An institution under the wings and regulations of the GGC must, by definition, be able to serve both French and Dutch speakers. If you are aware of the reality in Brussels, you will know that, as far as the French-speaking institutions are concerned, this is not really the case in practice. Dat is pure siencefiction. At best, these institutions are bilingual on paper, but in practice they are as good as French speaking. Therefore, the Flemish caregivers will not be able to find their way there in their own language. That is why I believe that the transition from all these COCOF institutions to the GMC can only take place once a thorough check has been made in advance to ensure that they are effectively bilingual and that bilingual services can be provided at all levels. As is well known, the sixth state reform confirmed that there is a standstill as regards the rights of Dutch speakers in the Brussels-Capital Region, including in terms of their language rights. This was even extended by Article 5a of the Special Law of 1989. The principle of federal loyalty was also further implemented in the Belgian legal system. The government may challenge decisions of another government before the Constitutional Court if it considers them to be contrary to federal loyalty. The language legislation in Brussels is still a federal competence until further notice, and therefore falls within your competence. I am particularly concerned about the massive switch from those monolingual institutions under the wings of the COCOF to the GGC. I have five specific questions for you, Minister. Firstly, what is your position on the massive transfer of COCOF institutions to the GCC, in particular in view of the bilingual status that the institutions of the GCC should have? What do you think of the application of the relevant language legislation? Do you share my view that such a switch can only take place after prior checking and establishing that these institutions are effective and fully bilingual at all levels of their services? If you share that view, has there been such control? What were the results? If there has been no control, will you, as responsible for language legislation, take steps to do what is necessary and to draw the necessary consequences? Secondly, can you tell me what the standstill principle introduced by the GCC as a transition means for the institutions making the transition, in particular with regard to the linguistic and Community aspects? Thirdly, do you consider the massive transfer of COCOF institutions to the GCC compatible with the principle of that other standstill, as set out in Article 5a of the Special Law of 12 January 1989, especially in the light of respect for language law? Do you consider this compatible with the principle of federal loyalty, to which I referred earlier? If not, will you appeal to the Constitutional Court? Finally, will you take action against the United College of the GCC? If so, what specific measures are involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u11	Mr President, Mrs Pas, as regards your first question, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that such initiatives have been made possible by the special law of 6 January 2014 amending the special law of 8 August 1980 on institutional reform, the special law of 6 January 1989 on the Constitutional Court and the special law of 12 January 1989 on the Brussels institutions. Neither my party nor myself have approved these reforms. I could tell you what role I played at that time in relation to the reforms, but that is not the issue at the moment. The sixth state reform has transferred funds for institutions in the welfare and health sector to the Communities. In Brussels, the GCC is competent. However, the funds were only partially transferred. That is the case for quite a few delegated powers. The massive transfer of institutions to the GGC has therefore also financial implications for the GGC, completely aside. The GGC is only competent for bilingual institutions. The transition can therefore only take place if services are guaranteed in the two languages. I am therefore confident that the GGC will be aware of this and will therefore only include institutions that can guarantee bilingual services. Unfortunately, the control of this is not within my jurisdiction. It is a personal matter, which is governed by Article 5 (1) of the Special Law of 8 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions. In the bilingual area of Brussels-Capital, the United College of the GCC checks on compliance with the language law. As I said, better arrangements are indeed conceivable. This can indeed count, in the light of judge and party. I will answer your second and third questions together. The standstill principle was introduced by Article 5a of the Special Law of 12 January 1989 concerning the Brussels institutions in the interest of the two Communities. The article reads as follows: "The ordinances, regulations and administrative acts must not affect the bilingual nature or the guarantees existing at the time of entry into force of this provision which the persons of the Dutch and French languages are entitled to enjoy in the municipalities of the Brussels-Capital Region. Again, I have no authority to check or sanction. Article 5b of this law entrusts the monitoring of these provisions to the Constitutional Court and the Council of State. The Council of State may act only after a complaint has been made. As I have already said, until further notice, I assume that every institution in Belgium will comply with the law. If it turns out that there are offences, I can only set up a complaints hotline, which falls within my competence. If complaints are made, the Council of State may act. I shall then come to your fourth question. As mentioned above, the transfer of institutions to the GGC can only be achieved if these institutions guarantee a bilingual service. After all, the GGC is only competent for bilingual institutions, as I said. The Constitution does not provide for a transitional period. To the extent that this is fulfilled, there is no violation of federal loyalty. By the way, who am I to question the federal loyalty of others? This problem is therefore not addressed. As far as your fifth question is concerned, I do not have any control over the GCS and cannot therefore take any action in this respect. Members of the Brussels-Capital Parliament may, if necessary, interview the United College of the Joint Community Committee on this matter. The GGC is under the authority of the Brussels-Capital Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You're too modest about all your options. All you can do, you say, is create a complaints hotline. However, you are not saying that you will. You're just saying this is all you can do. That is not true, however. I think it is rather naive to say that you dare to count on the fact that all these French-speaking institutions will suddenly automatically guarantee a bilingual service because according to the GGC this is the official way to do it. You say that better arrangements are conceivable, precisely because control is in the same hands. It is true that there are better arrangements, but there is nothing to stop you, as Minister responsible for language legislation, from providing better rules for language legislation. You could put those points on the conciliation committee. As Minister, you can have the Standing Committee on Language Control thoroughly examine whether those 50 French-speaking institutions transferred from the French Community Commission to the Joint Community Commission effectively meet the bilinguality of services. You have plenty of opportunities to do something about this in practice. You know, as I do, that in Brussels, two different things are bilingual services on paper and in practice. Mr President, with a motion of recommendation, I would like to encourage the Minister to take these measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u13	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, in charge of Great Cities and the Government of the Buildings, - having regard to Title III, Chapter IV, Section II of the Constitution, and in particular Articles 128, (2), 135 and 138 thereof, - whereas the Flemish and French Community, through the French Community Commission (COCOF) and the Flemish Community Commission (VGC) respectively, are responsible for personal matters carried out through institutions for the institutions which, by their organisation, address one or the other Community and the Joint Community Commission (GGC) only for measures addressed either to persons or to bilingual institutions which do not belong exclusively to one or the other Community, except as regards family benefits; - having regard to the letter of 26 November 2014 from the United College of the Joint Community Commission to the welfare and healthcare institutions of the Brussels-Capital Region subject to the rules of the COCOF or the VGC; - having regard to the fact that it invited these institutions to switch from the COCOF or the VGC to the GGC; - whereas out of the 61 written institutions subject to the rules of the French Community Commission 50 have indicated their desire to make this transition; - having regard to Article 32 of the Law of 16 June 1989 on various institutional reforms; - having regard to Article 1 (1) 2° of the coordinated laws on the use of languages in administrative matters, - whereas the institutions of the Joint Community Committee should use Dutch and French as administrative languages and that the institutions recognised by the GCC should offer their services in Dutch and French; - whereas the 50 institutions wishing to make the transition have so far been organised in a monolingual French language; - whereas there is no evidence that, as part of their transition, these 50 institutions were thoroughly checked in advance as to whether they can offer their services in full in both languages; - whereas, in those circumstances, it may be assumed that these 50 institutions, or at least the majority of them, are unable to serve Dutch-speaking caregivers in their own language; - having regard to the competence of the Federal Government with regard to language legislation in the Brussels-Capital Region, for which the Minister for the Interior is responsible; - having regard to Article 5a of the Special Law of 12 January 1989 relating to the Brussels institutions, by which the acts, regulations and regulations of the Joint Community Committee may not affect the bilingual nature of the proceedings or the existing safeguards enjoyed by the persons of the Dutch and French languages in the municipalities of the Brussels-Capital Region and Article 5b of the same Act, whereby the suspension of a standard or an act may be decided by the Constitutional Court or the Council of State if serious means justify the destruction of the standard or act pursuant to Article 5a; - whereas the transfer of 50 institutions from the COCOF to the GGC undermines the right of Dutch speakers to have a service in their own language in the institutions recognised by the GGC; - having regard to Article 61 of the coordinated laws on the use of languages in administrative matters, - whereas the Minister for the Interior may request the Permanent Commission for Linguistic Monitoring to carry out an investigation, asks the Minister for the Interior - refer this point to the Consultative Committee; - to have the Standing Committee on Linguistic Monitoring carry out an in-depth examination of the extent to which the 50 institutions transferred from the French Community Commission to the Joint Community Commission meet the bilingual nature of services and give an opinion on them within 45 days; - all acts, regulations and regulations of the United College of the Joint Community Committee which affect the right of Dutch speakers to a service in their own language in the institutions recognized by the Joint Community Committee to challenge and undo all possible legal means." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Interior, responsible for the Grand Cities and the Régie des Bâtiments, - having regard to Title III, Chapter IV, Section II of the Constitution and in particular Articles 128, § 2, 135 and 138; Whereas the Flemish and French Communities, through the French Community Commission (COCOF) and the Vlaamse Gemeenschapscommissie (VGC), are competent for the exercise of subjects customizable by institutions, respectively, for institutions which, by reason of their organisation, are addressed to one or the other community, and that the Joint Community Commission (COCOM), apart from family allowances, is competent only for measures which apply to bilingual persons or institutions which do not relate exclusively to one or the other community; - having regard to the letter sent on 26 November 2014 by the College meeting of the Community Commission common to the social and care institutions of the Brussels-Capital Region formerly governed by the COCOF or the VGC; - Whereas this letter invited these institutions to migrate from COCOF or VGC to COCOM; Whereas 50 of the 61 institutions governed by the French Community contacted by mail indicated that they were willing to migrate; - having regard to article 32 of the Act of 16 June 1989 on various institutional reforms; - having regard to Article 1(1), (2), of the coordinated laws on the use of languages in administrative matters; - Whereas Dutch and French must be the administrative languages of the institutions of the Joint Community Commission and the institutions approved by COCOM must offer their services in Dutch and French; - Whereas the 50 institutions willing to migrate have so far been exclusively organised in French; Whereas there is no indication that, in the context of their migration, these 50 institutions have been subject to prior checking to ensure that they are able to offer their services in both languages in full; - Whereas in these circumstances it is permissible to consider that these 50 institutions or at least the majority of them are not in a position to address Dutch-speaking patients in their language; - having regard to the competence of the Federal State to comply with language laws in the Brussels-Capital Region, falling within the powers of the Minister of the Interior; - having regard to Article 5a of the Special Law of 12 January 1989 on Brussels Institutions, under which the administrative acts, regulations and orders of the Joint Community Commission shall not prejudice the bilingual nature and guarantees enjoyed by persons of French and Dutch linguistic origin in the municipalities of the Brussels-Capital Region, and having regard to Article 5b of the aforementioned Law, under which the suspension of a norm or act may be ordered by the Constitutional Court or the Council of State if serious means are likely to justify the annulment of the norm or act on the basis of Article 5a; - Whereas the transfer of 50 institutions from COCOF to COCOM prejudices the right of Dutch speakers to have an offer of services in their language in institutions approved by COCOM; - having regard to article 61 of the coordinated laws on the use of languages in administrative matters; - Whereas the Minister of the Interior is empowered to request the Standing Committee on Linguistic Control to initiate an investigation, asks the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Security and Interior, responsible for the Grand Cities and the Régie des Bâtiments, - to include this item on the agenda of the Consultation Committee; - to request the Standing Committee on Linguistic Control to carry out a detailed investigation into compliance by the 50 institutions transferred from the French Community Commission to the Joint Community Commission with the criterion of bilingualism and to give an opinion on the matter within 45 days; - to challenge and annul, by all means of law, all the acts, regulations and orders of the College of the Joint Community Commission which prejudice the right of Dutch-speaking persons to have a service in their language in the institutions approved by the Joint Community Commission." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Conseil Degroote. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koenraad Degroote. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Degroote's 2252 will be dealt with in the Committee on Finance and the Budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u14	Minister, since 1 January this year there are no longer fire brigades in our country, but 34 relief zones. One of the uncertainties, which is currently emerging as a result, is the incompatibility between firefighter and local personnel. Professional firefighters were not previously able to take up a political mandate in the same congregation of the corps in which he or she is active. What that means, now that the corps are actually merged and working together in a relief zone, is not clear. Is it true, Minister, that there is no clear directive in relation to a possible incompatibility with a mandate as a city council member in the zone? If so, how will you resolve the problem? How long can a solution be expected? What does that mean for the municipal councils where to date there are staff members who are not in a situation of incompatibility today, but who are able to get into that situation later? If not, how should the existing rules be interpreted as regards the possibility or not of exercising political mandates in a municipality other than the post where the person concerned is employed but situated in the same area of assistance?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u15	Mr Van Hecke, Article 27 of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007 provides that the personnel of the zone may not be members of the zoning council or the zoning college. According to Article 24 of that Act, the Board is composed of one representative per zone, namely the Mayor. The mayor is an official representative on that zoning council. The zoning college is composed of the council, so the same applies. The law therefore does not prohibit professional firefighter and city council member in a municipality of the zone. There's only an incompatibility between mayor and firefighter in the same zone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u16	Minister, there is an incompatibility between firefighter and city council member in the same municipality and this incompatibility will be removed now that zones are being created. In other words, the rules of incompatibility are relaxed. Is that the right conclusion I can draw from that? It is not intended to continue the incompatibility that exists today to the zones. If I understand correctly, it's not oblivion, it's a conscious choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u17	I'll tell you what the ratio behind it is, it used to be the city council, who was boss of the fire department. Now it is the zoning council, which is the employer of the firefighters, no longer the individual municipal councils, but only the zoning council, which is composed of the mayors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u18	That is clear, but it is still the city council, which has to approve the provision with means of operation and investment for the zone. In that sense, a firefighter will be able to take part in the decision on the amount for the zone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u19	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demon's 2276 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u20	Mr. Chairman, Minister, a few weeks ago, in the National Defence Committee, hearings were held on the future of the army, particularly with military unions. During these hearings, the unions brought to our attention the need to ensure the conversion of certain military personnel who would like to do so and, in particular, in the application of the so-called "BDL" statute, a statute created to recruit young military personnel for a limited period of time. This new status, which lasts for a maximum of 8 years, raises many questions in relation to a young and trained staff who could end up in this jobless status despite having served the nation for several years. Staff who could therefore be a potentially interesting recruitment base for your department after ad hoc training. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. Are there already bridges or training for the reconversion of former military personnel within the police force? If so, are they used and respond to specific cases? Are any changes being considered? Given the young personnel involved in the new BDL status in the army, is there any reflection with your National Defence colleague to even facilitate the engagement of these former military personnel after this time-limited status? Have you ever had contact with trade union organisations on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u21	Mr President, Mrs Ben Hamou, with regard to your first question, in addition to the transfers of military personnel to the integrated police during the Octopus reform, three royal decrees (3 July 2007, 12 July 2009 and 12 September 2011) govern the movement of military personnel to the operational framework or to the administrative and logistical framework of the integrated police. This procedure is not systematic but allows, whenever a need is defined, the realization of a memorandum of understanding between the two ministries (Defence and Interior) determining the enforceable arrangements which are then implemented in a concerted manner, in particular by the Défense's External Mobility Service and the Federal Police Recruitment and Selection Service. As far as your second question is concerned, this reflection is very real and is reflected in contacts between our two SATS of the respective firms. Since the government agreement has expanded the scope, we are also talking about a bridge to the security corps, fire services, civil protection, and thus the various security services. We have informed Defence that we are ready to join this multi-passerelle approach, knowing that each sector will still have some specific modalities to follow. Once the methodology is established, contacts with the social partners will take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u22	Mr President, I will ask my questions successively. When I tabled my first question, I did not yet have the most recent information. On Friday, February 13, Electrabel presented a summary of his case to the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (FCAA). Clarifications have not yet been published since then, including maximum crack sizes or changes in crack numbers. As a result of this publication, AFCN, along with other experts, has indicated that such tests should be carried out on each of the nuclear power plants potentially affected worldwide. Minister, the question was this: do you support this request from the AFCN and do you or will you relay this request to your colleagues in charge of nuclear safety in other countries? I would also like you to present to us as fully as possible the content of this synthesis report and the operational conclusions you draw from it. In addition, I would like to know whether the cracks noted are close to each other and how many of these cracks are potentially in critical locations when cold water is injected. I would also like you to clarify the origin of the materials currently being tested. Are these German parts intended for the manufacture of a power plant tank but excluded because they have the same defects? I'm talking about the fourth phase of the test. Why are the "non-compliant" results of the same test procedure on parts from a French generator not enough? Finally, I would like to have your reaction to the inquisitive remarks made by some experts who openly acknowledge that in this area they are "navigating at the limit of scientific knowledge". I am referring here to comments made on the Terzake programme by scientists. I'm going on with the next question. On Saturday, 21 February, the press echoed new information about the worrying state of cracks in the tanks of some reactors. Can you provide us with as much information as possible in terms of the description of the observations noted? Among these informations, I would like in particular – I invite you to show you more complete – to know: 1. Their size in the three dimensions – width, height and depth – with each time their median, average, maximum, minimum values and standard deviation. These elements are important and have been the subject of much discussion, notably by the fact that grouping various data into a single metadata increases maximum sizes; average size and median size help, but the standard deviation allows for a better understanding of the situation. 2. Their location. Especially in relation to inlet and outlet tubing, lower and upper viroles, lids, etc. Are they surface or deep? In the inox or in the wall? In contact with the liquid? I insist on tubing versus viroles: in the documents that I was able to consult, among other things thanks to the Chamber's documentation services, in the parliamentary questions and work of the late 1970s, some cracks are identified, but only in the entrance and exit pipes, but never in the viroles. Today, cracks appear to be observed in the lower and upper viroles, but not in the tubing. From there, my question with a request for clarification. 3. What is the depth of the different layers of the wall? 4. The concentration of cracks or their dispersion: my question is intended to better perceive what this is about. 5. Their form: some texts refer to "bulles" or "cloques". Do you confirm? 6. Their orientation, and in particular the proportion of cracks oriented in the direction perpendicular to the maximum voltage. In fact, it is said that all cracks are parallel. My question 6 is intended to learn whether or not perpendicular cracks exist, as well as their number. I'd like to know if there are any or some of the 16,000. 7. Are they in the direction of the thickness of the tank? This goes back to the question of perpendicality versus parallelism. 8. What does the use of the terms "altitude" and "azimut" mean in this particular context of the information given by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency? I would also like to understand why the operator considers that their size has not increased while the information published tends to prove otherwise. Has the updated calculation possibly been measured by superimposing two small cracks? What is the rule to say that two little spaced cracks are assimilated? What is the difference that is taken into account? Otherwise, what is the other explanation? Finally, I want to know whether absolutely all areas of the two tanks have been inspected using the ultrasonic method with increased sensitivity or whether certain areas remain inaccessible and therefore could not be inspected. I come back to the question of the entrance and exit pipes. Let me turn to my third question. According to nuclear energy expert Digby Macdonald, whom you may have seen at Terzake, there is a risk that the cracks identified in Doel 3 and Tihange 2 tanks will grow. Nuclear reactors are immersed in water, which is made up of two thirds of hydrogen. His remarks were also echoed by RTBF on 13 February: "Because of these hydrogen atoms, the pressure increases in the tank, the steel inflates from the inside while more and more important bubbles are formed. As a result, the cracks are widening. The consequences can be very important, namely the fracture of the reactor and a loss of cooling water". Professor Macdonald cautioned that all nuclear power plants in the world should be controlled. Do you validate this analysis? If not, what is your counter-analysis? Next question. The press has echoed new information factors, further aggravating the previous elements. We used to talk about 10 or 11 mm cracks. Yesterday we were talking about 9 cm cracks, which is much more important! Earlier, in the nuclear safety sub-committee, we learn that these cracks had a size that could go up to 18 cm! And again, the examination is done longitudinally, when perhaps the curvature dimension of the walls must be integrated. We wonder where progress will stop! Indeed, at each stage we have new information on the size of these cracks! The following question relates to the outcome and follow-up of Action No. 15 of the action plan defined by the security authority. It therefore concerns the action plan itself. Following the indication of defects in the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 reactor tanks, the Agency defined a short- and medium-term action plan to confirm certain assumptions in the justification dossier. In this oral question, I would therefore like to refer specifically to the progress of Action No 15, which provides for tensile tests on larger samples. This action was completed in May 2013, in any case in a first phase, but further analysis was requested in the medium term. Electrabel transmitted the results of these complementary analyses to AFCN but only at the end of 2014. Evaluation of the latter is still ongoing. What has happened since then? What is the analysis of complementary results? I would like to stress this aspect of action no. 15 to have all the data, to have all the figures in this field, since as far as cracks are concerned, we have the data on the dropper, and again... do we have all the data? As far as the structure is concerned, apart from the fact that these tests led Electrabel to close the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 power plants as a matter of urgency after reopening them, no figures are available. I will quote from the AFCN's December interim report: "The fragility of the material through these tests appeared to be more important than expected by the trend curves used in the literature." Indeed, the literature says that such an experiment should lead to such a result; however, the AFCN notes that the results of the experiment lead us to much larger curves. But what are the numbers? What is the extent of the difference in this area? Never at this point have we had a numerical answer, either from the Federal Agency or from Electrobel. I hope that the committee will be able to obtain the figures. As far as nuclear safety is concerned, I believe that transparency is a minimum. In relation to this risk of fragility, therefore, what are the data in the possession of the AFCN for the time being? What data has been transmitted by Electrabel? We'll stop talking just about principles or cracks. We will then really talk about the core of the problem, namely the possible risk of fracture of the walls. The following question is not unrelated to the previous one. There is a risk of frailty due in particular to the ageing of these plants, which are 40 years old or even older. Thus, if cold water is to be injected very quickly into this very hot environment, which is the heart of a nuclear power plant, it is to take a risk. In view of what has been seen in the tests in Mol, for the Doel plant, a precaution has already been taken. We're not going to inject completely cold water anymore, but we're going to preheat it to 30 degrees. Today, all the water in Doel 3's safety injection tanks is continuously preheated to 30 degrees. Why don't we do it in Tihange? If the observation is the same in Doel as in Tihange - and in view of the figures given to us, there is no reason to think otherwise - why don't we preheat the water in Tihange? How was this 30 degree value determined? It is known that the walls of the nuclear power plant are fragile, if water is injected, at the time of their creation, at –20 degrees celsius. Forty years later, necessarily with irradiation, –20 degrees becomes 80 degrees. I do not understand why we have more or sufficiently secured with water preheated to 30 degrees while the temperature of change of the state between flexibility and rigidity is located at 80 degrees after 40 years. Frankly, you'll have to explain to me why the 30 degrees are applied on one side and not on the other. With regard to the information that is historically available, it is difficult to obtain answers from Electrabel. I would like to know what documents, dating back to the time of construction of these plants, are still in their possession. I consulted, through the services of the House, the information that was circulating at the time. It happens that there is no trace of the cracks in the recovery file submitted at the end of the construction period, but in the previous preparatory work there are indications in some notes, in some documents, of a crack reading. In fact, it is very interesting because your predecessor, in 1979, answered in parliamentary questions (i.e. proof of the usefulness of reports and reports) that there was no danger in Belgium because the number of cracks was one third less than the number of cracks in France. To affirm this, necessarily, the number of cracks was known. I have to. I would therefore like to know what information Electrabel, the Federal Agency, the administration and you have on the basis of historical records about the state of the cracks at the time. Another dimension: what cracks are we talking about? What was their size at the time? I'm interested in your answer. I have some information because I went to search the archives of the House, but I would like to know if your answer corroborates the information of the services of the House. Does the size identified at the time correspond to the size discussed today? Is their location identical? I was talking earlier about tubing and viroles. More importantly, are they linked to hydrogen? The technical files refer to DDH as "hydrogen failure" or DSR as "coating failure". In France, the cracks found are all DSRs. On the Belgian side, in 1979, are the defects identified under coating or due to hydrogen? This latter possibility would be paradoxical, since in the scientific journals of the time, found also thanks to the services of the Chamber, it was announced that Doel 3 and Tihange 2 were built precisely in an interesting material thanks to a process in which one of the three components of steel was replaced in order to better combat the risks of hydrogen cracks. That is what is paradoxical. It was said that this steel would be better than all the others. Forty years later, 8,000 cracks are discovered, even more, 12,000 cracks in Doel and the rest in Tihange. Could you give me all the information you have about this historical data, including access to the file? Coordination meetings were held on the problem of cracks, for example on 17 June 1980. What do the minutes of these meetings say? What is included in the report of the accredited body responsible at the time for giving its opinion on the safety of the plants before they were opened, the ancestor of the Federal Agency? Were further opinions requested? I was able to find one, the report by one of the experts from the Commission of the European Communities, submitted before the opening of Doel 3 and Tihange 2. What do these reports contain? What does the construction report contain? The information published on 21 February shows that a better dimensioning of the tests carried out to verify the strength of the materials and vats of nuclear power plants leads to the discovery of up to 60% of additional cracks, thanks to a finer analysis. In any case, this is what Electrabel says: increasing sensitivity makes it possible to obtain more robust results. What is true for Doel 3 and Tihange 2 is also true for others. Will these tests be carried out on all Belgian nuclear power plants? Since the machine required for such analyses, according to Mr Bens in Terzake, is not readily available, when will such high-sensibility checks be carried out on plants which have not yet benefited from this new look, namely Tihange 1, Tihange 3 and Doel 4? My question also applies to Doel 1 and Doel 2, some of whom in the government would like to see the lifespan extended. So when will these analyses take place knowing that the necessary equipment is not readily available? I come to another question concerning the results of Action No 11. Following the indication of defects in the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 reactor tanks, the Federal Agency has defined a short- and medium-term action plan to confirm certain assumptions in the justification dossier. In this oral question I would like to refer specifically to the state of play of Action No 11, which provides for an experimental programme to study the properties of irradiated sample materials containing hydrogen defects. Unless I'm mistaken, we're in the fourth test campaign. I would therefore like you to present the results and analyses of the first three campaigns (it seems that there were two moments of analysis for the first campaign) and the specific content of the fourth campaign. At the very least, I ask you to give us a copy of the trend curves of these different campaigns and each time to place them on a graph in view of the curves chosen by the corresponding scientific literature. Minister, do you confirm that the first analysis of the first test campaign revealed an unexpected behaviour of materials with defects characterized by a material weakening greater than expected by the trend curves used in the literature? Secondly, do you confirm that the second analysis of the first test campaign confirmed this unexpected behaviour of materials with defects characterized by a material weakening greater than expected by the trend curves used in the literature? Third, do you confirm that the second test campaign also revealed an unexpected behaviour of materials with defects characterized by a material weakening greater than expected by the trend curves used in the literature? Fourthly, do you confirm that the third test campaign has once again revealed an unexpected behaviour of materials with defects characterized by a material weakening greater than expected by the trend curves used in the literature? Can you also tell us whether an initial explanation of this frailty was provided to the PSAN by the operator following these three campaigns and four analyses? Finally, at the end of 2014, the AFCN did not yet have all the elements in its possession to have validated by the international panel even if only the methodology used by Electrabel for the tests related to Action 11. So could you also tell me where we are on this aspect of the transmission of methodological information? Has AFCN now received everything it wishes to receive in this regard? If so, when was this information transmitted? Otherwise, when are they announced? Is there a deadline attached to this transmission? My next question concerns the dimension of the spontaneous dissemination of nuclear security information. I have already talked a lot about the information that has been released over the last two Saturdays, but it reveals elements that, unless mistaken, have not yet been made public either by Electrabel or by AFCN or by your firm. A series of questions come to mind to try to better understand how things are going in terms of information exchange. When did AFCN receive information on the maximum crack size at Doel 3 and Tihange 2 as revealed in 2012 and 2014? Together with my colleague Kristof Calvo, we discovered during the sub-committee on nuclear safety that AFCN was publishing new data on its site. So I would like to know when the AFCN received the information. When did your firm, or possibly your predecessor's, receive this maximum size information? For the past two and a half years, we have been told that the average size is 10 to 15 mm. We were told it wasn't bigger than a 1 cent coin. Today, we are told that it is 9 cm! In commission, we learn that it's not 9 cm but 18 cm! We're a long way from the little 1 cent room. So the question is when your firm, the government or the federal agency received the information. It's not only the average size that counts, it's the maximum size. Why didn't AFCN, if it had the information, broadcast it spontaneously? Why should we always wait for things to come out or for questions to come? Then we'll be surprised that there are a lot of questions. Today, we have the right to ask these questions and to have answers. Does the AFCN have any other information that should be made public for a good understanding of the situation? I mentioned the median size and the standard deviation, so as to know the distribution of these cracks between those that have this size and those that have this size. Why were the maximum crack sizes found in the Lower Core Shell in Tihange 2 in 2012 and 2014 not released at the same time as those found in Doel 3's Lower Core Shell? What are the maximum crack sizes found in 2012 and 2014 in Tihange 2's Lower Core Shell?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u23	Mr President, I thank my colleague for waiting for me. Minister, this worrisome issue has been before Members of Parliament for several years. To give some pictures as well as my colleague did, I took this sheet. I remember that Mr. Bens, the first time he told us about the cracks, told us that their presence can be serious or anodine depending on their orientation. He took a leaf: if they are in the direction of the length, with the effect of the pressure, it will work; but if they are in the other direction, it will not go. [[He's tearing the leaf.]] He did this in committee. I'm an engineer, or at least I was a few years ago, and I have to tell you that it didn't reassure me. Having said that, we have also had more detailed explanations given by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency during the meetings of the Nuclear Safety Sub-Committee. Earlier, Electrabel provided additional information. Mr. Bens had also said that the reactors could be restarted, but that if it were necessary to cool the tanks abruptly, there would be a risk of cracking, like when boiling water is poured into a cold glass and it bursts. It was the analysis that was presented to us a few months ago. On 3 September last, as part of the debate on the risk of blackout, at a meeting of the Economic and Home Affairs Committees together, Mr Bens said that we would have the conclusions for autumn 2014. The autumn has passed, the winter has arrived and on 16 December Mr Bens came to the nuclear safety sub-committee and informed us that the final dossier had not yet been submitted by Electrabel and that further information had been requested by AFCN. On February 13, AFCN announced in a press release that Electrabel's justifications were finally expected by April 2015. In the same press release, AFCN also revealed that the number of defects detected in both reactors had increased as a result of improved control technology, to 13,047 for Doel 3 and 3,149 for Tihange 2. This is becoming more and more worrying. It is difficult for us to believe that we will be able to obtain a safety file that will guarantee us the possibility of restarting these three reactors safely, both for the environment, the population and the workers. How should we interpret the fact that Electrabel has still not submitted the final report justifying the safety of the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 reactors? Can this situation continue indefinitely or will a deadline be imposed by the PSAN? Is the methodology currently used by Electrabel to complete the safety file adapted by the AFCN or are there still any differences on this point? How should we interpret the fact that the number of indications of defects detected has been increased? Even if we are told that the methodology is more efficient, this remains worrying. Don't you think it is necessary for the PSAN to communicate more to the public to explain this situation, which I think is currently lacking in transparency? Electrabel said earlier that they were going to impose the same tests on Doel 1 and Doel 2. Can you confirm that? Will you impose on all Belgian and frontier reactors the procedure of inspection of tanks by ultrasonic means?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u24	Mr Minister, I have questions about a dossier which gives me more and more an uncomfortable feeling, as I said in the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety. It is a very sensitive and important matter. Of course, you are not responsible for this by the previous government, Minister of State, which gave the green light in May 2013 to restart the two reactors. In my view, that was an irresponsible risk. There are also recent developments and new elements, of which we should not immediately learn in the best, most professional way. We thought we knew everything this morning, but just now in the subcommittee we heard new elements, including the size of the cracks. Last weekend the newspapers were full of news that the cracks are bigger and are now measured 9 cm. In the Subcommittee we heard that this has now become 18 cm. A number of images have already been used to describe this, but no picture is even needed to establish that anomalies, cracks, hydrogen flakes in a reactor vessel, the most crucial part of a reactor vessel, are not immediately reassuring. Minister, I am also concerned about your absence from the dossier. You're a communicative member of the government. You do not hesitate to communicate about your powers, but about nuclear safety and about the dossier, despite the new revelations, we do not hear a word from you. You're the Minister of Security. That's the new title you've awarded yourself. You're also Secretary of Nuclear Security. This does not mean that you have to carry out the investigations yourself, but that means that as a guardian minister, you have to take responsibility, for example, for the operation of the agency. The fact that last weekend the agency is still communicating about 9 cm cracks, while we hear here today from the operator that we are talking about 18 cm in the investigation, is a matter on which the Minister for the Interior, for Nuclear Safety, is quite right to take a stand and try to increase credibility in this respect. I come to the specific question. Firstly, what is your response to the new findings of the last week, but also this afternoon? Have you had any discussions with the FANC? Secondly, within what time-limit do you expect clarity? The file drags on from the summer of 2012. I was on the Thalys from southern France when I received the e-mails from Mr De Roovere of the FANC, who indicated that there was a real problem. That's how it came to light. Summer of 2012 has been a while. It is now February 2015, so I think you should set a clear deadline within which you expect clarity. Thirdly, we asked the FANC and the operator by letter for all available research results. We have informed the President-in-Office of this matter and have been informed this morning that this is not considered desirable or possible. I would like to ask you, as politically responsible, to take the other position, in particular that transparency in this area is the absolute minimum. Fourthly, what role do you see for the government in the dossier? Who finally makes the final decision? Fifthly, what is the preliminary cost of the investigations conducted? Are the additional costs fully reimbursed by the operator? Sixthly, there are seven nuclear reactors in Belgium. Objective 1 and Objective 2, the oldest, may be extended by 10 years. They haven't had those tests yet. In what timing will that happen? Seventh, what will you do at international level? You are very active at international level in other areas of your competence. It would be appropriate for you to take action on this at European and international level, for example by arguing very actively that other reactors abroad are very relative when it comes to nuclear reactors and nuclear safety, which are also subject to ultrasonic tests. Mr President, there are a lot of questions, which are mainly political in nature. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I hope you will seize that opportunity with both hands to show clearly that you are Minister of Nuclear Safety. In the last two weeks, despite the new revelations, we have not been able to see that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a Latin proverb that says repetitio est mater studioum. Since we are talking a lot about studies here, I assume we will repeat the same thing this morning. If that can contribute to greater clarity, so much better. The record of defects in Doel 3 and Tihange 2 tanks is scientifically very complex. For this reason, the Federal Agency has surrounded itself with internationally recognized scientists as experts in radiation damage to support its analysis of Electrabel's documents. This expert group met in November 2014. Their conclusions were unanimous and acknowledged the preliminary conclusions of the Federal Agency that the methodology then presented by Electrabel to justify the safety of the two tanks was not yet mature enough to be accepted. In December 2014, the AFCN formalized a series of requirements and suggestions to validate the acceptability of this methodology. At present, not all of these requirements have been met. The Federal Agency does not yet have the necessary information to reassess its position on the acceptability of the Electrabel methodology. In January 2015, Electrabel proposed a schedule of responses to the requirements of the Federal Agency. The analysis of this schedule allowed AFCN to set the second meeting of international experts in April 2015. Indeed, meeting the requirements of the Federal Agency takes time. Among its requirements, the Federal Agency supported a request from the group of experts requesting a fourth irradiation campaign on another German material. This type of irradiation campaign requires a minimum of three months to be carried out: preparation, irradiation, mechanical tests. Thus, the results of this campaign, necessary for the validation of the Electrabel methodology, will not be available until early April 2015. In April 2015, the second meeting of the expert group on radiation damage will be held at AFCN. Following this and in combination with the conclusions of its own analysis, the AFCN will decide on the acceptability of Electrabel's methodology. The Federal Agency takes all the time it considers necessary to analyze this issue before making a decision, given the potential significant impact on the safety of both nuclear facilities. In this case, the Federal Agency does not set a guideline for Electrabel to carry out the studies necessary for a possible safety justification. It should be recalled that the two reactors are currently stationary with the core discharged, therefore in a safe state. There is no reason for security to precipitate a decision or set deadlines for Electrabel. The international experts gathered by AFCN are therefore specialists in radiation damage. The AFCN submitted to them questions on sub-themes among the actions still under way, mechanical properties of irradiated materials with indications of defect. The other two sub-themes are: the detection and dimensioning of fault indications, on the one hand, and the structural integrity of one affected vessel, on the other. These experts were gathered following the discovery in March 2014 of a phenomenon on a part from a French steam generator in Areva during the tests to assess damage due to irradiation similar to that suffered by reactor tanks after forty years of service. This material, called VB-395, similar but not identical to the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 tanks, was at the time the only one in which Electrabel had identified hydrogen-related defects similar to those detected in the tanks. After irradiation, this material presents a greater embrittlement than theoretical expectations. Many studies, such as two other irradiation campaigns, have been launched by Electrabel to assess this unexpected phenomenon. The behaviour of the samples in Exhibit VB-395 after irradiation was different from the theoretical expectations. After investigation, Electrabel showed that some of the mechanical properties of Exhibit VB-395 were also unexpected in the unirradiated state. On the other hand, the mechanical properties of the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 cork samples are in line with expectations. In this context, tests on another material with hydrogen defects are necessary to investigate the origin of the unexpected phenomenon described here. Electrabel undertook further research into parts with defects and found a German material called KS-02. This is the result of a research program conducted in the 1970s and 1980s. Electrabel recently found a piece of this material in the laboratories of the University of Stuttgart. It came from a flange intended for the tank of a 1300 MW reactor that was released at the time due to defects that had arisen during manufacturing. Recent studies by Electrobel have shown that this material is affected by hydrogen defects. Characterization studies are currently under way. Samples of this material are thus being irradiated in the SCK BR2 research reactor. Under this sub-theme related to the characterization of materials, several other actions are still under way. Of these, action 15 relating to tensile tests on larger samples. At the request of AFCN, Electrabel conducted further analyses on this subject, which were completed in early 2014. AFCN submitted this action to the international expert group. They did not identify any problems related to Electrabel's analysis. The safety authority is currently finalizing the evaluation of the results of this action. Finally, a final point concerning the characterization of materials and defects has to be re-examined. At the beginning of February, information was published in the press from two Belgian and American scientists concerning the risk of widening the defects by accumulation of hydrogen dissolved in the water of the vats and passing through the walls of the reactor. The phenomenon mentioned by Mr. Digby MacDonald and Mr. Walter Bogaerts is well known in the scientific world and is commonly found in petrochemical applications. This phenomenon was well identified by Electrabel in 2012 in his search for phenomena that could be responsible for the appearance of defects. Potential degradation by diffusion and accumulation of hydrogen, including manufacturing defects, was then analyzed and rejected by Electrabel. Indeed, the emergence of these degradation phenomena requires hydrogen concentrations well above the hydrogen concentration of reactor vats. At the time, the Federal Agency had also referred this issue to the first group of international experts. They had also validated the exclusion of the phenomenon as a potential cause of tank degradation. Nevertheless, the AFCN asked these two scientists for a copy of their calculations to assess their relevance. At present, without these detailed calculations, the Federal Agency cannot confirm or reverse Mr. Bogaerts' and Mr. MacDonald's hypothesis. In parallel to the sub-theme related to the mechanical properties of materials, Electrabel is working on the sub-theme related to the detection, location and dimensioning of defects in Doel 3 and Tihange 2 tanks. These defects are detected by a measuring instrument called MIS-B, the B meaning Belgium. It is an instrument developed for and dedicated to the inspection of Belgian reactors. For this reason, MIS-B is not used for the inspection of frontier reactors. However, the availability of MIS-B is reduced, as the team of technicians capable of operating it must also deal with inspections in France. The other countries, in fact, have their own generally similar inspection tools. Following indications of defects discovered in the Belgian tanks, AFCN immediately informed its foreign colleagues. Mr Calvo, you suggested inventing hot water, but it was already invented. The FANC had already taken that initiative. In addition, the WENRA group, the European Association of Nuclear Regulators, issued a recommendation in 2013 to conduct a detailed literature review of manufacturing records and in-service inspections of all nuclear reactor tanks. If necessary, based on the literature review, this group recommended an additional inspection of the steel tanks. On 17 December 2014, WENRA published on its website the results of the analyses carried out by the acceding countries following this recommendation. The main conclusion of this document is that, in all cases where the documentation was analysed, no country reported potential defects in the tanks. In addition, most countries, including the Netherlands and France, have carried out or have planned to carry out tank inspections. Recommending an analysis of the tanks has therefore already been done in 2013 and this recommendation has been followed by the security authorities of our neighbouring countries. In early 2015, the Federal Agency published information on the number and size of defects in Doel 3 and Tihange 2 tanks. To put this information in perspective, remember that in 2013 the Federal Agency had required the formal qualification of this measuring instrument, MIS-B (Machinery of inspection in service). At the beginning of 2014, however, analysis of this qualification showed that the tool did not allow for the proper detection and dimensioning of all defects present in an affected area of defects. It was therefore decided to amend the machine detection thresholds and to improve the design procedure for the inspection of tanks scheduled for June 2014. The Federal Agency was informed in September 2014 that the number of defects detected during this inspection was much higher than in 2012 and 2013 due to the lowering of detection thresholds. The full analysis of the results of this sub-theme was entrusted by the Federal Agency to AIB Vinçotte. The Parliamentary Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety was informed by the Federal Agency at its meeting on 16 December 2014. Two modifications have therefore been made to the method of detecting and sizing defects in tanks. The inspection procedure has been improved to ensure a conservative dimensioning of defects, i.e. to ensure that the measurement of the defect is equal to or greater than its actual size. This conservatism has consequences for the results of the inspections. In fact, according to Electrabel, the application of this improved procedure may imply that two defects which are extremely close to each other are only considered to be a single, larger defect. The application of this procedure therefore results in a slight decrease in the number of defects considered – from 1.6 % to 5 % less – but also in an increase in the average size and maximum size of these defects. It is this second information that was given by the Federal Agency last week. As a result, the average size and maximum size of defects increased. Electrabel indicates, however, that very large defects hide a smaller set of defects. The second modification to the detection method consists of lowering the detection thresholds: the sensitivity of the analytical parameters is increased. The combination of the lowering of these thresholds during the 2014 inspection with the use of the new procedure led to the detection of approximately 60% of the additional defects in the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 tanks. It is impossible to calculate the effect that this lowering of thresholds would have had on the measures already carried out in 2012. In order to assess the possible evolution of defects between 2012 and 2014, while the reactor operated for nine months, Electrabel applied the new procedure with the old thresholds to the measurements carried out in 2012 and 2014. This makes it possible to compare measurements carried out in the same way. This comparison showed that the defects already detected in 2012 did not change in number or size between 2012 and 2014. At the beginning of 2015, the Agency received detailed information on the characteristics of the errors identified in 2014 by applying the new procedure and by lowering the detection threshold. The improved detection method increases the average size and the maximum size of the error indications. I will provide you with a summary of the measurement data. We can present the tables so that they can be included in the report. In those tables you will find a comparison between the results of the inspection carried out in 2012, the reanalysis of the data in 2014 and the new inspection carried out in 2014. It has already been mentioned that these data have been on the FANC website since this morning. For Tihange 2 those data are now also complete. Real time information [[.]] These defects are laminar and are located in the steel of the vats, not in the cladding (coating), at a depth between 5 and 150 mm. They are therefore not in contact with the water in the tank at all. The question is not whether a defect is located in a critical location, but whether certain areas of the tank become critical, that is, they are unacceptably weakened by the presence of these small flakes. However, the analysis of the impact of the presence of these defects during a rapid cooling of a tank is still under way by Electrabel. This is the third sub-theme of the action plan: structural analysis of the tank. It is therefore still too early to determine whether certain defects have weakened the tank in an unacceptable manner. However, Electrabel has already decided to warm Doel 3's safety injection water to limit the temperature gradient in case of sudden reactor cooling. This measure is not justified in Tihange because the temperature gradient seen by the default is less important: the defect is at a greater depth than in Doel 3 tank. The areas affected by the defects detected in 2014, with the new reference, are therefore the same as the areas detected in 2012. The qualification of the MIS-B tool showed that, if it did not detect all the defects with the procedure used in 2012, the machine was able to detect when there were any. It is therefore not necessary to carry out a new inspection of the Tihange 1 and Tihange 3 reactors. Inspections of Doel 1, Doel 2 and Doel 4 reactors are planned in the coming months, starting in September 2015, taking into account the availability of the MIS-B tool and the necessary personnel. All the summary documents concerning the detection and dimensioning of defects are expected in February 2015 by the AFCN. The analysis of these documents takes a long time. The safety authority has not yet completed the analysis of the results of its UT inspections and has therefore not yet validated the results and justifications given by Electrabel. For the question about potential cracks, in the early 1980s, this is a completely different problem. The question of the potential appearance of cracks during the introduction of the stainless steel cover, particularly at the level of the complicated geometry of the pipes, has indeed been raised upon the return of French experiments and is the subject of a dossier discussed with experts of the European Commission. These defects are referred to as "coated defects". These are not hydrogen defects. The evaluation at the time concluded that there were no safety problems for Doel 3 and Tihange 2 tanks on the basis of additional checks and calculations. The signs of defects referred to today are located in the two middle viroles of the tank and not in the upper virole where the tubing is located. These are not cracks following the laying of the protective cover, but indications within the thickness of the tank, the hydrogen flakes. The detailed documentation of the checks, carried out at the time, is available at the operator's office of study in the form of microfilms in the certificates of conformity required by the construction code. The AFCN visited the site to view this file in 2012. The Federal Agency proactively communicates on its website the evolution of the record of defects in the tanks of two reactors. At the end of December 2014, the Federal Agency published the status summary in 2014. In this report, the Federal Agency announced an increase in the number of defects detected in both tanks. In early February 2015, the summary of inspections conducted in 2014 enabled the Federal Agency to provide quantitative information on the increase in the number of such defects. The following week, according to its principle of transparency, the Federal Agency replied to questions from the Aacher Aktionsbündnis gegen Atomenergie group requesting precise information on the size of these defects. It is clear that these studies and analyses have a cost and that the FANC and Bel V are making great efforts here. The FANC and Bel V will invoice the costs to Electrabel in full. The radiations and tests are carried out at the Nuclear Energy Study Centre in Mol, which has built up a worldwide recognised reputation. The radiation and the tests are done at the request of Electrabel, which the study centre also reimburses for this. The FANC has no information on the total cost of the studies for Electrabel. I would just like to point out that the government and I, of course, take nuclear safety very seriously. That also means letting the nuclear supervisor, the FANC, do his job without any external pressure. He has to monitor the safe operation of nuclear installations and he can also take action if safety is compromised. I have already stressed in plenary and committee meetings that we always and in all circumstances support the FANC in its actions. The Objective 3 and Tihange 2 power stations are currently at a standstill. All fuel has been removed from the core. That way they are now perfectly safe. The fact that these plants have been shut down since the first moment of doubt proves the strength of our control system and our nuclear safety culture. The studies and tests currently carried out, inter alia, by Electrabel and the SCK, go very deeply and are evidence of the high level of expertise in this field in Belgium. The FANC analyses the results and all additional studies and information and uses globally recognised authorities for this purpose. Before these plants can be re-launched, the FANC will have to be convinced that this will in no way jeopardise nuclear safety. If they don't, they stay closed. Let's make that very clear. I'll deliver the tables to the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u26	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is clear that much of this will require analysis through the record. I will react on a few points. You confirm that, if Electrabel stopped its Doel 3 and Tihange 2 power plants as a matter of urgency after reopening them, it was because the tests carried out in Mol had led, in the first phase, to worrying results that exceeded the standard – in your own terms. This was even reported on the Federal Agency's website. What is the extent of the deviation from the standard? This is a real problem, because we have the impression that the information comes from outside rather than from within. In this case, it's not good. It's best that the information comes out spontaneously. We're in the fourth campaign. I'm talking about the first test, which took place months ago. Why is this encrypted information still not transmitted? In addition to the table you circulated, could you provide us with the figures that would indicate the values behind this deviation from the standard? I have documents from France that give us figures, but I do not want to mention them, because they could be worrying. I would therefore like you to provide us with the figures from the tests carried out at the Mol research centre. That is a fundamental question. Are these a few small percentages of the difference? Or is the scale much larger, even logarithmic? With regard to the cracks themselves, you have given the explanation and the figures, which I thank you for. However, let me be somewhat surprised that this is the day when questions are asked and when Electrabel has to come to Parliament to explain that the figures are published on the AFCN website. I have the impression that in the Agency's missions there is an obligation to disseminate information spontaneously, not just because ten parliamentary questions fall on the offices of the Committee on the Interior. This is a small message that I would like to convey to the AFCN, whose importance I know of the work and the dedication of the people who work there. In the current times and with the files on her table, it is extremely important that she give these signals to the population, that she indicates that she is not dependent on things that happen elsewhere. Today we have received information that we have never obtained in the past. It's not normal! I understand the difference between the DSR cracks under the coating found in 1979-1980 and those found here, the DDHs, linked to hydrogen. For the last cracks found, beyond the averages and the maximum figures, can we know the standard deviation? We could then see their dispersal. Do few cracks match the average or are they really gathered around the average? Electrabel explained to us that she lowered the threshold, and that makes sense. But lowering the threshold detects smaller cracks. If there are many small cracks on one side but also many large cracks, the average means little. If, on the contrary, there are very few small and very few large, the average means something important. That's why I'm asking you for the standard deviation. It's not to bother you. It is to understand whether there are many small and many very large or whether everything is focused on the average. It is a pity that this basic information, necessary for a good understanding of the situation, is not spontaneously disseminated. I therefore allow myself to rest the question and hope to receive an answer quickly. You say that the MIS-B instrument is specific to Belgium but that the team also works in France. As a result, analyses at other power plants cannot be carried out as quickly as desired. To be clear, I noted September for Doel 1 and Doel 2: is it right or is it going too fast?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u27	The results.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u28	Results will be reported in September.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u29	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u30	Will the tests take place in September? And the results will be known in the meantime. How long does it take, two or three months, to interpret the results?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u31	Depends.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u32	This is still more or less problematic in the energy policy calendar. I will of course come back to your colleague Mrs Marghem on this subject. On the one hand, it will be decided to restart them without having the results of the tests. On the other hand, the strategic reserve will be calculated at the end of June while the results will be reported after September. There is a calendar inconsistency that will inevitably be a problem at some point. I point it out today; we will come back to it later. You say, minister, all the cracks are parallel to the walls. Do we agree that this is not an average, but all the cracks linked to hydrogen, that there is none in the other direction? I don't want to catch you on this, but it's important for understanding. Why do I say that? If several parallel cracks are very close in the direction of the depth of the tank, not in the direction of width, necessarily, these cracks superimposing also pose a problem. They are not perpendicular to the starting point, but by aligning the different cracks in the depth of the tank, necessarily they are problematic. This leads me to ask – and I know that the reports are read and are also made for that – if there is no way to draw up a three-dimensional projection to realize what that means. There are still 13,000 cracks on Doel 3. It is said that there is no danger, that they are 18 cm or a little less, or that it is necessary to see the average. But they can overlap in an area. I heard the word "concentrate"; the concentration is the same but the density is higher, given the lowering of the thresholds. With a higher density, if they are not in length, they are necessarily in depth. We might have other tensions. These elements support me in the idea that we need all the information. I don't look specifically at you, minister. I'm talking about the Federal Agency and Electrabel. In addition, work remains unfinished in the nuclear safety sub-committee. I insist that you inform the citizens. Of course, we can argue that this is a boring technical file. But it is important that we understand the situation well. I recall that Article 5 of the Aarhus Convention provides that in terms of safety related to potential disasters from an environmental point of view – and nuclear power is one – all information must be disclosed as soon as it is available. For the moment, however, this requirement has not been met in Belgium. I looked in these French documents, only some of which are public. What are they telling us? They express concerns legitimately relayed to us by some citizens. I quote the French Agency: "Even if each defect taken in isolation presents a small stake vis-à-vis the strength of the tank, the large number casts a doubt on the quality of the manufacturing process and therefore a doubt on the quality of the part obtained." It's not nothing! The second element highlighted, but contained in a confidential document, deals with the defects caused by hydrogen, which are cracks which must therefore be considered, in France, as potentially evolutive. I insist: in France, hydrogen defects are considered to be potentially evolutionary. The operator, Electrabel, denies that fact. He refused to recognize this observation formed by the French Scientific and Political Authority. Electrabel thinks he knows better than everyone else. This is a fundamental divergence of views. This should not last too long. In this regard, it is important that the AFCN be able to align itself with these international standards. I am not going to mention any other elements because there are aspects that might bring some to a boil. But I ask you to give the figures because they could reassure us about the deviation from the classic curves. I have the figures that France is presenting and I would like to have them for Belgium. I deeply regret that I did not have access to it today. Compared to what has been disseminated for the time being, we really lack crucial information on nuclear security elements. I'm sorry I've been a long time!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u33	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive explanation. I have a shared feeling. By hearing you, I am not at all reassured about the future of the two reactors. We talked about April, we were told four times of the results. I am confident that Electrabel will find it very difficult to provide a safety report that will justify restarting the two reactors. You don't have to be a university professor to feel it. Anyone who analyses this logically will realize that it doesn't smell good! On the other hand, I am reassured by the intransigence of the AFCN since the crack detection began. It must be recognised that it has put forward the first priority, which is the safety of the environment, of workers and of citizens. I am also reassured that you have confirmed that you will follow the advice of the Agency, no matter what, to determine your final decision. I urge you to keep this line until this case is resolved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u34	Minister, a number of elements in your reply express the annoying and uncomfortable feeling about the dossier, but do not just disappear. However, I welcome your statement that, if there is any doubt, the power stations will be permanently closed down. That is the position of everyone and cannot be recalled enough. There are, however, two important differences compared to the announcements this afternoon by Electrabel. Firstly, you have noted that the international expert panel needs to reaffirm the methodology. It will do so in spring 2015. On the other hand, Electrabel stated this afternoon that the methodology with which the company is currently working has been confirmed by the international expert panel. That is an important difference for me as far as this afternoon is concerned, or at least gives that impression. If that's not true, it'll be cleared up better. Secondly, there has been the alarm call of two professors, Bogaerts and MacDonald. It's been extensively visualized. You now state that the FANC has not yet taken a position on these studies and findings. Electrabel, on the other hand, explained to the committee this afternoon that it is about another phenomenon. Bogaerts and MacDonald are wrong, according to Electrabel. That seems to me to be two differences from this afternoon's announcements, which is not insignificant. It is good that the FANC has already raised this international aspect with fellow regulators. Many of them have not yet taken the necessary steps. I would have expected you to have indicated in that regard that you are taking the lead at political level in putting the dossier on the agenda at international and European level. However, you are at peace with the initiatives that have been taken for the time being. In this respect, you need to step up your efforts and ask that all reactors be examined, not just those produced by the same company. All reactors must be examined. In the same atmosphere but with us you give a timing this afternoon. According to Electrabel, it would be the summer of 2015 for Objective I and Objective II. You are talking about September 2015, but that is about the same thing. After all, the summer lasts until 21 September. I agree with Mr Nollet on this point. We really have a problem in this area. In the spring, Parliament will be presented with the bill to extend the lifespan of Objective I and Objective II. The majority will approve the draft. It has already been approved by the Council of Ministers. However, we do not even know what the situation of these two reactors is. After all, they have not yet undergone the ultrasonic tests. A cautious attitude would therefore be that their lifespan is not extended until the tests have been carried out and that you try to advance the tests or wait for the lifespan to be extended. Those points remain unanswered. I expect you, rather than being in a communicating role and sharing with us the FANC's reports and not everything else about transparency, to have the FANC's negative answer, which, as Minister for Nuclear Safety, you play a more active political role in the dossier. You should not do the investigations yourself, but you should get a number of things moving more sharply and more vigorously in the relevant dossier and the wider field of nuclear safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u35	Mr President, some elements of the answer to the reply. Mr Nollet, you asked for more figures. They will be transmitted to you. As regards Doel 1 and Doel 2, the vats come from another manufacturer. In the Government Agreement, the extension of the activity to Doel 1 and Doel 2 is subject to the agreement of the Federal Agency. Therefore, we follow their recommendations. With regard to the differences which you would have noticed in what was said this morning, Mr Calvo, I would suggest that you read the answer. It was a comprehensive answer. There's no contradiction. Firstly, the methodology is not yet mature. I do not know what was said about it this morning, but that is what we have seen with the FANC and that is also the line we are pursuing. Mr President, if you will allow me, I will have my colleague explain the technological aspect in a moment. Mr Calvo, you are concerned that I would not go to the international forum enough in this area. That won't be necessary. The International Atomic Energy Agency will meet in September, and I will also be there to report on the matter, where it is to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u36	Mr Nollet, the fragilization of the shell piece VB-395 is indeed greater than expected. In the meantime, there are also indications that fragilization will also give different values than expected without irradiation. There are indications that the AREVA shell, VB-395, is not indicative of our reactor vessels. That is why tests have now been carried out on the German material to see if the results would be more representative. All this needs to be analyzed. At the VB-395 shell there was indeed a large shift in the transition temperature for fragilization, as you said. That was also presented by the FANC, if I am not mistaken in the subcommittee. The FANC has been open about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u37	Mr President, I have in my possession the slides proposed at the time. They deal with the principle and not the scope. As far as the maximum crack sizes are concerned, one day it will come out. I'll have them if I have to. Why aren't we given these numbers spontaneously? When it comes out, it'll be a scoop. In this case, a test has been performed. You're right to say that. The federal agency came to tell us that there was a problem. We read this in each of the files, but Electrabel closed them. We don't know the extent of the problem. And that for me is a lack of transparency. We have the figures for France...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u38	The plant's been shut down. I don't know if the temperature shift size is very relevant. It may, where appropriate, be communicated. There are data showing that the shell is unlikely to be relevant. Your second question was about the distribution of small and large flakes. The greatest value you indicate is probably smaller flakes which, because the margins are larger to take conservatism, overlap and become a large flakes. So there are no large number of large flakes. Probably smaller ones that are displayed as a larger one. As the Minister said, there are other manufacturers for Objectives 1, 2 and 4. If that test is done and no indications are observed, then it can all happen very quickly. Then there's no problem. If there is a problem, then the FANC will not give its permission to restart. In the other case, it can all happen very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u39	I have one final comment to make. I understand that everything related to nuclear energy is very sensitive. However, we have no interest in creating panic. The two power stations we are talking about are stationary. They're not loaded. They don't start if there's any indication of insecurity. You can question the studies and knock up the number of centimeters, but as long as there is no FANC green light based on studies validated by international experts, they will not start up again. Electrabel can do whatever it wants. That's the safest position we can take. Tomorrow there may be cracks of 27 centimeters, if there are indications of insecurity, the FANC will not turn the light on green and then the power stations will not start up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u40	Minister, thank you to your collaborator. We have more dialogue than this noon, but it doesn't matter. You're right to say these plants are closed. It's a fact. But I would like to insist on that because they have been reopened. In 2013, Electrabel considered and AFCN validated that these plants, which had been closed, could be reopened. That is why my colleague and I insist so much on the historical elements. Today, I hear what you're saying. It is quite radical with regard to these two plants: they are closed and they will remain so until we have all the elements, all the guarantees. I want to believe you. But accept my critical mind related to the history of the case. These plants were reopened when there were cracks of 27, no, 18 centimetres announced today. That's for the "cracks" aspect. In this regard, I believe that things are clear between us. We'll wait until we get all the results. I'm waiting for the numbers of the standard deviation I asked for. You said that was one of the figures that you will forward to us at a later date. Regarding the solidity of the wall, the fragility we were talking about with your collaborator: it is necessary that the extent of the situation be quantified. Not to mention the figure given by France, it is still mentioned that the similar defects detected showed a very significant loss of ductility. This means that if you have to react urgently and inject a lot of cold water in a short time, the wall may not resist if the temperature difference is too large. I don't know what this temperature is today. Even if you consider that this is not fundamental, I ask, on the basis of the theoretical and numerical information given by France, to know this magnitude. You're going to give the number and we're going to be able to check it out. This information, and the research that is currently taking place on the BR2, the fourth campaign that is linked, also influence Doel 1 and Doel 2. I agree with the cracks. The Creusot and Cockerill forges for Doel 1 and Doel 2, RDM, the company we talked about. That's right. But the research underway today focuses on the structure and not on cracks. The impact of the findings of this study is greater than Doel 3 and Tihange 2. They also affect Doel 1 and Doel 2. It is for this reason that the timing of this research is just as important to me. Thank you for announcing that you will provide us with the figures. I hope that such an open dialogue can continue in the future on an extremely important subject on which we must not play: nuclear security.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u41	Mr President, Minister, my question is about something completely different, to keep the spirit a little flexible. My question is about rape, a subject that has perhaps been raised very often here, and even more so in the Committee on Justice, and on which I come back in response to a number of recommendations made by the Dutch Women's Council. You may know that the official figures for rapes are hallucinatingly high. In 2012, police statistics reported 3 053 rape complaints. That's over eight a day. That figure would only be the tip of the iceberg, because it is assumed that only 10% of the victims make an official report. In fact, there are very few legislative gaps. There are sufficient means to deal with rapes. Work has been done on this in the past by several Ministers for the Interior and for Justice. However, it has to be said again and again that in practice the application seems to be inadequate. The Dutch Women's Council now makes a number of recommendations via the website I don't shut up.be anymore. We see that, in fact, there are far too few declarations and that, if they are made, they are often not followed up or followed up in the wrong way, so that women are less and less inclined to report them. According to the Women's Council, there should be better coordination between the Departments of Justice, Health and Home Affairs. The legislation is fine, but there is not enough cooperation in a smooth way. The Women's Council also has recommendations for each department. For example, with regard to Home Affairs, a number of conditions are set out to optimise the first reception and interview by the police. This has been incorporated into the law, but it seems that this is not always the case in practice. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Have you taken note of the recommendations of the Women's Council? If so, would you like to comment on that? Are there any actions in the pipeline to concreteise the suggestions of the Women's Council?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u42	Mr President, Mrs Jiroflée, the least we can say is that this is indeed a completely different subject from the previous one. I have taken note of the recommendations made by the Women's Council on its website. I understand that when the data from the Women's Council show that only 10% of the victims of rape in our country report to the police that is a real problem. We cannot simply accept that. I understand that an integrated approach to this issue is essential, but I would also like to point out that in the past and now in the coalition agreement, special attention has been paid to this issue by the various actors and bodies involved, namely welfare, police, justice and aid. It is therefore a problem on which we continue to work in an integral and integrated way. In view of the figures quoted, I am, of course, open to the implementation of proposals from the Women's Council. Allow me to inform the police in advance of what measures we have taken and what measures are planned for the near future. Specifically for the police, the recommendations of the Women's Council on the first reception and interview, with particular attention to trained policemen and to the location where the victim is heard. The policeman or woman is often the first official person who comes into contact with a victim and has an obligation to guarantee adequate reception, reception and first victim treatment. That is the responsibility of the policeman or woman who has first contact. I can assure you that victim care is prominent in both basic and specific continuing training. It concerns all kinds of victim care but also specific care for victims of rape. I do not want to become too technical, but two circulars have been published. The first was published on 27 November 1997. It provides for financial compensation for police commissaries for the establishment of premises for the reception of victims of physical and sexual violence. We are therefore making a financial contribution. The second circular of 4 May 2007 on police victim treatment in the integrated police structured at two levels recommends that the police leadership develop a victim treatment policy in which the active development of partnerships with the other victim care actors should be the guiding principle. Victim care is therefore an integral part of police tasks and requires the acquisition of specific competences. This specialised training for the police officer in charge of interviewing victims of physical and sexual violence is organised by the police schools. In each local police force there is therefore at least one specialised employee and the permanent employability of that employee is ensured. I can assure you that the victims within the police take their job very much to heart. The uniform checklist recommended by the Women's Council is already a reality within the police. It's already been implemented. The intervention guide "Terrain' is available to all staff and special attention is given in the chapter on victim treatment to the reception and reception of victims of sexual violence. Specifically for the police, within the framework of the 2012-2015 National Security Plan, which is coming to an end this year, and in consultation with the Magistrate, there is a roadmap in the making that initiates the standardisation and improvement of the quality of handling a police investigation into sexual crimes. The aim is to set minimum standards for the facts seriously affecting the physical integrity of persons, in particular those relating to women, such as rapes, and to strengthen their training and to monitor their compliance on the ground. That will certainly be completed this year, because it is part of the Safety Plan that will be due to expire this year. The schematic itself, which actually updates the police intervention guide, will be distributed nationally very soon. I would also like to comment on the recommendation concerning the questioning of video. This can also happen locally. Staff trained for this purpose are present. Finally, there was a suggestion about starting police procedures for the supervision of victims. This is clearly not a task of the police, but of the welfare sector. The division of labour must be carefully considered. The police officer shall provide assistance to victims, with particular attention to reception, practical assistance, information, the preparation of the minutes and the reference to the specialised services. The supervision of victims on the medical, legal and assistance side is not part of the police's mission. That's how it's agreed. Mrs Jiroflée, I have tried to answer the five minimum conditions mentioned on the website for the first reception and interrogation by the police. I would point out, however, that, in addition to these facts, our policemen face daily suicide, intra-family violence, fatal accidents, disappearances and, not least, radicalism. Any serious crime involving violence against individuals should ideally be avoided, but if not, prosecuted and punished, and the victim should be given the necessary follow-up care. I can assure you that the police will take these serious crimes, including violence against persons and therefore rapes, to heart and will implement in dialogue proposals to improve their functioning.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u43	Minister, I am particularly pleased to hear that you are alert to the problem. I am also, of course, pleased with your list of what has happened in recent years. Of course, we all know what is in the circular letters. The tasks of the police in this area are legally in order, we are convinced of that. It is only in the field that it is constantly shown that things are often going wrong. That is why I would like to draw your attention to this question. There seems to be something missing which makes it particularly difficult for women to state the facts and to feel in a safe and secure environment where they can bring up the very difficult matter that has happened to them. You say that the safety plan is coming to an end and that you certainly want to realise what has not been achieved. I urge that this issue should also be included in the next security plan, not so much in the legal field, but above all in the field of implementation on the ground and its practical impact. Especially the alertness of the policemen on the ground is important. In any case, I thank you for your reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u44	I just heard that a half hour ago the Flemish Parliament was evacuated because of two bomb attacks. Perhaps we will be able to host our fellow Members here; they are only one block away.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u45	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u46	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u47	Mr President, Minister, we all know that Turkey is an important stopover for jihad fighters. With the help of the intelligence services from different countries, the country has now drawn up a list of about ten thousand possible jihadists, which is, of course, huge. Moreover, there is a good reason to focus even more on the detection of jihadists. On arrival in Turkey, these persons will be arrested immediately and returned to the countries from which they come. I have three questions for you. First of all, did our country get access to the list? How many potential Syrian fighters from our country are on the list? Secondly, have you recently had contacts and exchanged information with your colleague in Turkey about Syrian fighters from our country? I know your predecessor has had contacts on this. Thirdly, do you have any plans for further cooperation and action with Turkey, given the geographical situation of the country, namely its neighbouring country of Syria and neighbouring Iraq, which makes it a stopover for most jihad fighters, to enter those countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u48	On the Belgian side, we do not have access to the list drawn up by the Turkish authorities. A list is one thing. But certainly so important in this matter are the sources of information to get to that list. A list like this could be drawn up by anyone. We don't have any information on that. We cannot therefore determine how many potential Syrian fighters from our country are on that list. I can tell you that our services have tried to get that information through the different channels we have before, but so far we have not been able to do so. Contacts with the Turkish authorities are mainly carried out through our liaison officer. We have a liaison officer from Belgium in Turkey who has regular contacts with his homologs within the Turkish police and state administration. In addition, the exchange of information also takes place through the co-operation channels that we have set up internationally, such as Interpol and the Schengen Information System. After all, the border between Europe and Turkey is a Schengen border. As far as your third question is concerned, you are right. Turkey is an important part of the fight against this phenomenon. I would even speak of a transit country. That is why we are seeking to improve and strengthen cooperation with the Turkish authorities. In this context, I can tell you that consultations are scheduled at administrative level in the course of this spring. In the autumn we will be in contact at ministerial level. A conference will be organised with the Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Home Affairs and Justice of Belgium and Turkey. You will assume from me that the issue of Syrian fighters, or foreign fighters in Iraq, and cooperation with Turkey will be at the top of the agenda. It will be the main theme of the consultations between the two countries. Cooperation with Turkey through the liaison officer is also greatly appreciated and, of course, continued. After all, that works well. Thanks to this cooperation, several potential Syrian fighters have already been stopped in Turkey. So these are people who have left from here and who have been able to stop us at the border in Turkey thanks to this cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u49	Thank you, Minister. That list has indeed been drawn up by intelligence services, and I hope that we will also have access to it, or at least be able to decode the information ourselves. As far as the consultations planned in the framework of the Troika of Home Affairs, Foreign Affairs and Justice are concerned, this cooperation is an important issue. It is important to pay sufficient attention to the fight against radicalisation. Could you perhaps tell me how many people have been intercepted and stopped in Turkey as part of this cooperation with our liaison officer?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u50	I don't know if it's useful to release that information, I don't have it with me, I'd say I'll make them available to you, but I don't know if that's useful. I'm gonna get the information and deliver it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u51	Minister, there was encouraging news from the European Parliament, which has committed itself to drawing up a directive by the end of this year. This is a PNR agreement, in which passenger data would be clustered. PNR stands for passenger name record. Air carrier passengers provide all kinds of personal information and airlines may use that data for commercial purposes themselves. We need to think about that. Is the privacy law even waterproof? We're effectively balancing on a weak cord. We need to safeguard the right to privacy, but that should not be a reason to avoid the debate. A PNR agreement can also offer a great deal of relief for our country. In fact, I read that the ECR report already takes into account the privacy issue. Prime Minister, do you intend to take a federal initiative on the matter? Secondly, the issue has been very topical in an international context over the past few weeks, which makes sense. Are you aware of national plans in other countries? How do they feel about the agreement? Thirdly, if the EU Parliament is not in a position to adopt a directive in good time, is it possible to reach bilateral or multilateral agreements on a PNR system with other European countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u52	At the moment, there is a dual situation at European level. The European Parliament is discussing a European directive on PNR. The file was blocked for a while, but it's back in a rapid pace. We can expect this European directive by the end of the year. That's the planning. There's already some changes in the camps. At the same time, a fund was made available to Member States at European level in the middle of last year to initiate PNR systems. That's closed now; don't pin me on the date. Fourteen European countries have subscribed to this. They will implement the PNR system, which is subsidised by Europe. Unfortunately, Belgium did not do that at the time. At present, 1 PNR system is operational in Europe, in the UK. France announces to be operational in the autumn. Denmark is the fifteenth country. You will not be surprised that the events are something in between. In the federal government, we have decided to start legislative work on PNR. That's gonna go to the government next day. A draft law will go to the Council of State and then be submitted to Parliament. We will also start the procedure to acquire the system. One can approve a law, but then one still has nothing. The aim of the European Member States is to set up a decentralised PNR system. The standards are defined at European level. The Directive will also determine how long the data will be retained and who will have access to it. In this sense, there is no contradiction when individual Member States are already working on PNR systems, even though the Directive is not yet in place. We will do the same at Belgian level. I strongly support a European approach to PNR, which is much more effective. It is a much more powerful tool if we can set up such a PNR system with all the Member States, or certainly with all the Schengen countries. If this is not possible at European level, then all the Member States that have started it now, Belgium too, will only go further, and then we will be able to set up bilaterally the agreements that have failed at European level. The strange thing is that there is consensus on the PNR system in the Home Affairs Council, but the European Parliament is always seeking a balance between protection of privacy and security. The debate on PNR is not interesting. For Belgium, however, the answer is PNR. However, a debate on the data retention period and on who has access to that data is appropriate. It seems logical to me that people should not throw it out on the street. The question is, therefore, which authorised authorities have access to the information. Finally, the PNR project in Belgium is drawn by colleague Tommelein, who is responsible for Privacy, and myself. The balance is therefore embedded in the implementation of the system.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u53	Mr Minister, I am indeed a little surprised and disappointed that Belgium did not sign up at the time, but I sincerely hope that we can become the 16th country on the list. Let us be honest, if the 28 EU Member States sign up to this, this will obviously facilitate the transition of data. In our minds, we all have what happened in Paris, because we know that these cold-blooded terrorists were already ended in the United Kingdom and that these data were not passed on. I hold my heart and hope that we will be spared from that. I am particularly pleased that we will now be taking part in our responsibility at federal level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u54	I would like to add the following. Yesterday and the day before yesterday, as a representative of the Chamber, I attended an interparliamentary committee meeting of the European Parliament on something similar, namely smart border packages, which collect biometric data. There was the same discussion, on the one hand there was the story of security, we made it a fortress, and on the other hand the story of privacy and a hospitable society. During the two days the various representatives of the various parliaments regularly made that assessment. The balance is indeed made at all levels, perhaps slightly different from the executive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u55	Mr Demeyer is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u56	Mr Minister, two weeks ago we were told that one of the Belgian mayors, Mr President, I will not mention his name, Mr Delors, would be accompanied during his private skiing holiday by 10 agents in 4 blinded and armored vehicles. They would accompany him during his vacation. According to the same report, the security officers would also accompany the mayor involved during his skiing trips. According to the mayor concerned, that security measure did not come to his question and even regretted that he had to undergo that serious measure. The Home Office, again according to press release, would have scaled the mayor concerned to security level 4, while the overall security level was set by the OCAD at 3. Minister, is it correct that the mayor concerned was accompanied for his private vacation by 10 agents in 4 blinded and armored vehicles? What is the cost of that security during the private vacation of the concerned mayor? Is it true that the mayor concerned has been scaled to a security level four? Is that also a decision of the OCAD? How many other mayors in our country have been scaled to security level 4? How many members of the federal government have been scaled to security level 4? How many members of the federal government booked a private holiday during the crocus holiday and how many of them received special protection during that private holiday? What is the total cost of additional security for the other mayors in our country, on the one hand, and for the members of the federal government, on the other?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u57	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, thank you for your question. I can tell you, first of all, that the reports that have appeared in the media about Mr De Wever's security on vacation are not correct. I'm sure they're overreacting. There was Mr De Wever security present. I'll come back to the reason for it later. However, she was not present to that extent and she certainly did not happen with the four quoted armored vehicles. Luckily for the man in question, security wasn't that exaggerated. As far as costs are concerned, we do not yet have all the elements at our disposal. However, I will provide you with the data. I don't want to keep a secret about it. As soon as we get the details of the charges, I'll get them to you. Labour costs are included in the general costs of the federal police. There are no additional costs. Labour costs are included in the general operating costs of the federal police. Neither Mr De Wever, nor any mayor, nor any member of the government is happy to find themselves in threat level 4. Level 4 means that there will certainly be an attack. Luckily, no colleague or mayor in this country will be responsible for this. However, information on private holidays booked by members of the government belongs to the private sphere. I don't have to tell you. However, I can tell you that, apart from the Prime Minister, no member of the government has a protection service dispositive. Only the Prime Minister has that. No other mayor in Belgium has additional security either. That both Mr De Wever and Mr Michel needed additional security is based on the assessment of the threat specific to those two persons who made the OCAD. An analysis of that threat by the OCAD brought the threat to level 3. That is why these measures have been taken. With regard to the protection of the Prime Minister, I cannot give you any information about the cost. We do not yet have all the relevant elements at our disposal. But I don't want to hide them. I'll give you the numbers as soon as we collect them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u58	Minister, I will wait until you have the overall cost. I would like to see some clarification. Does going on holiday and the security associated with it mean additional costs for both the mayor concerned and the Prime Minister, or is that equal to the costs of security in Belgium itself? Do you have eyes on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u59	Those are indeed additional costs, because those involved are 24 hours out of the house, but not 24 hours out of 24 on commission. If someone has to be escorted 24 hours a day, that's 3 people per 24 hours. If the person leaves on vacation, security cannot return home after the 8 o'clock shift. There is therefore an additional cost. I'll get you the elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u60	Minister, I do not need to remind anyone that the attacks against Charlie Hebdo and the Jewish supermarket have caused deep wounds. In the aftermath, millions of people have come to the streets to condemn the attacks, to show a great deal of consensus against such acts, to work for greater collusion and to argue against intolerance. Despite the many peace marches, however, today we are reading testimonies that indicate an increase in all forms of violence against Muslims. Let me give you some examples. Women with headscarfs are molested and offended in public places. Men and women are labeled terrorists on the basis of their looks. There are even reports of preschoolers being dropped off by mothers with headscarfs, and other preschoolers throwing strange words at their heads. So that's not a good atmosphere. Moreover, violence is not limited to public space alone. Hate campaigns are also carried out on social media. There are signs of a growing gap between people who think differently. This creates a climate of disgust and hatred, a climate in which extreme thoughts and groups rise. In the meantime, we know where that could lead. You will undoubtedly agree with me that we must avoid this at all costs. How many reports of aggression against Muslims have been filed with the police since the attacks in Paris? Is there a difference with the same period last year? Is there an increase? If so, can the police attribute this increase to the attacks or do other elements possibly play with them? I'll finish with my most important question. Is there anything we can do to reduce the increase in aggression? I know that's a very difficult question. I do not have a ready-made solution for this either, but there is no doubt that there are ideas about it. How will we maintain and promote social cohesion in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u61	Mrs Temmerman, I am glad that you think your last question is the most important, because on your first questions, which are quantitative, I have to answer that because of privacy religious matters are not included in the police database ANG. I have the same indications as you, but we can't get hard numbers out of the police database.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u62	Are there no figures of aggression against individuals?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u63	Yes, there are figures, but the religious beliefs of individuals are not recorded. I cannot therefore answer your first, second and third questions. More fundamentally, I can answer about the phenomenon, which we all see and notice. At judicial level, hate crimes and/or crimes committed with a hate motive are severely punished in the fight against discrimination and on the basis of the anti-discrimination law. The same crime, carried out on a hate motive, is more severely punished. It is also possible to impose stricter penalties for inciting discrimination, hatred or violence. For more information, please refer to my colleague from the Justice Department. Social cohesion in society is a matter in which I have a role to play in my responsibility as Minister of the Interior, but which requires a multidisciplinary approach and in our country it also means it at several levels of policy. It is up to all policy makers, both at federal and local level, to contribute in their respective areas to a sustainable and viable society, where social cohesion between communities and individuals is present. With regard to the integrated safety chain, I can make a contribution, especially for its preventive and police aspects, together with the local authorities and the other actors involved in the safety chain. For example, with regard to the police, I refer to the notion of community-oriented police care, in which the integrated police, both federal and local police, take steps towards the various communities. Better knowledge of the communities present in society optimises the provision of services to citizens when citizens from those various communities call on the police. In this context, the police shall also have an exemplary role and shall refrain from any form of discrimination and from any form of bias in the performance of their duties. The Equality and Diversity Service in the Police Department pursues an active diversity policy and sensitises staff on the protective criteria of anti-racism and anti-discrimination legislation. In cooperation with the Interfederal Equal Opportunities Centre, this service organizes numerous diversity training courses in the police, which are offered to all members of the integrated police. The promotion of social cohesion is, I repeat, a multidisciplinary task and, by extension, a task for everyone in society. This morning we had a meeting of the Consultative Committee with the Regions and the Communities. A platform will be established specifically aimed at the preventive element of the fight against violent extremism. We will regularly bring together, apart from the Consultative Committee, all those involved at federal level, as well as at the level of the Regions and the Communities, with a view to a coherent, preventive package in the fight against terrorism and extremism.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In addition to the coordinated approach against terrorism, we must also bear in mind the discrimination and totally unjustified attacks. Even if we can find them, we certainly need to be aware of them. Sometimes that is forgotten and people think it is too normal for something like this to happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u65	When I was just talking about the preventive part, that is essential to me. I have already said in this House that we must embrace the vast, generous part of the Muslim community. If we want prevention, this community must be involved and we must show the rest of the community that most of them are among the good guys, those who accept the values of our society and that we must fight against extremism together with them. That is how I see the preventive chapter, which has its place in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u66	I totally agree with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u67	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Top's 2315 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u68	Minister, I would like to go back to the elements that your office has just transmitted to me following my question of January 6th concerning the restart of Doel 4, when the identity of the offender(s) was not yet known. Your collaborator tells me that given the progress of the investigation into the incident on August 5, 2014, AFCN requested that for the restart of the Doel 4 nuclear reactor, only the absolutely essential personnel be deployed. To the extent possible, this selected personnel could not be part of the 60 persons present in the relevant technical perimeter during the incident. My first question, therefore, is whether the restart could have been carried out in this way or whether the wish could not be fully respected. If one is in this second hypothesis, how many of the 60 staff members had to be called to re-intervene when restarting or later on Doel 4 or in the technical perimeter of another plant? What is the share of subcontractors in this 60 staff? I would also like to know whether all of these people are still employed or whether the company has separated from some of them in view of the fact that they could not be reassigned elsewhere on the site. I would also like to understand why this clearance measure has never been disclosed among the range of measures adopted and on which there has been communication: installation of cameras, double visual check-out, etc. Can you explain it to me? Such a decision could have reassured the public more than what was originally said. I have referred to this measure in its time but without giving an answer in a sense which suggested that it would be followed. When, then, was this measure decided? Was this measure part of the original package or was it added later? Is it due to information received later or by the investigation that such a decision was taken? Is the announcement of this supplementary measure the result of a leak or official information? By whom was the information disseminated? I can't find any trace of it on the AFCN site? Will these measures apply until the sabotagers are identified? Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to take stock with you of the investigation. Have you received any information on the progress of the investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u69	Mr. Nollet, the restart took place as planned, in accordance with the conditions that had been imposed taking into account the measures taken against the staff members who, on 5 August 2014, were in the vicinity of the incident. A number of them have indeed, under surveillance, helped to restart the nuclear reactor. The vast majority of the personnel needed to restart the reactor were Electrabel's collaborators. The Federal Agency has no idea of the impact of these measures on the employment of Electrabel staff and subcontractors operating outside nuclear power plants. However, there are opportunities to mobilize these people outside secure areas. In response to your fourth and fifth questions: following the incident on 5 August 2014, immediate action was taken, including with regard to the personnel who were at that time within Doel 4's technical perimeter. The continuation of these measures depended mainly on the results of the judicial investigation, which are not yet known. The effect of the measures taken is assessed on an ongoing basis and the measures are corrected as necessary. Sixth point. Electrabel announced this measure to all relevant staff and subcontractors. The Federal Agency responded ad hocly to ad hoc questions. In view of the sensitivity of the case to the interested parties and the confidentiality of the investigation, no prior disclosure was made of the measures taken. Any information concerning the protective measures in place shall not be disclosed. Seventh, once the authors have been identified, the measures to be taken will be re-evaluated, including restrictions on access to the technical perimeter of nuclear power plants. Finally, given the secrecy of the investigation, I cannot give you any information on this: the investigation is ongoing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u70	Mr President, Minister, unless I am mistaken, there is one question that you have not answered: when was this measure decided? I understand that the information about this measure was not disseminated at the time of the global package for security reasons. All right. But when was this measure decided?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u71	Immediately, that is, the day after the incident.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u72	Mr President, Mr Minister, the diplomatic conference of the Convention on Nuclear Safety held in Vienna adopted a political declaration which seems to leave AFCN on its hunger, particularly in view of the non-binding nature of its conclusions. Could you present us with the issues at stake at this conference, the content of its main conclusions, the analysis of the AFCN and your own analysis?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u73	Mr President, the Diplomatic Conference of the Convention on Nuclear Safety has indeed adopted a political declaration setting out additional principles for the implementation of the Convention focused on the lessons of the Fukushima accident. I will briefly outline the framework, issues and conclusions of this diplomatic conference. This result follows the process of considering a Swiss proposal to amend Article 18 of the Convention, which began in March 2014. At the Sixth Review Conference of the Convention on Nuclear Safety in March-April 2014, the majority of the Contracting Parties agreed to consider this amendment. The proposed amendment, designed in the post-Fukushima context, to increase the level of safety of nuclear reactors, was intended to include a new provision in the Convention that the Contracting Parties would take appropriate measures to ensure that nuclear power installations are designed and constructed with the objective of preventing accidents and, in the event of an accident, mitigating their effects and avoiding releases of radionuclides causing long-term off-site contamination. The proposal also provided that these objectives would be applied to existing facilities in order to identify and implement appropriate safety improvements. Given the importance of the cross-border dimension of the risk associated with the operation of nuclear power plants, the European Union's ambition, in which Belgium clearly fits, is to harmonise nuclear safety at a high level. The Swiss proposal, broadly supported by the European Union and Belgium in particular, was fully consistent with the European Nuclear Safety Directive, recently revised in July 2014, which makes legally binding provisions, in particular on the safety objectives of new and existing reactors, aimed at strengthening measures to avoid sustainable contamination of territories or the displacement of populations. During the informal preparatory meetings for the diplomatic conference, it had become apparent that the main concerns related to the cumbersome ratification procedure and the technical and other difficulties inherent in security arrangements constituted obstacles to the adoption of an amendment. Despite the incentive nature of the convention and, therefore, of an amendment to it, the only sure way of consensus was a declaration of a political nature. The Diplomatic Conference was held in Vienna on 9 February. It approved the Vienna Declaration on Nuclear Safety, which is a political and non-legal commitment. It is in this sense that the Federal Agency has expressed some regret. However, the Federal Agency notes that the text carries a large part of the messages of the Swiss amendment and the corresponding provisions of the new European Directive. In addition, AFCN indicates that it will work with its European partners to ensure that the Vienna Declaration is fully implemented in all its components, and in particular those relating to regular reviews, so that it effectively takes the politically announced effect. Thus, it will be necessary to ensure that the periodic reviews taking place within the framework of the CNS report in a transparent and verifiable manner on the implementation of the principles adopted by the Vienna Declaration. Since the conference resulted in a consensus document, I believe that the international community is moving in the right direction, especially since the concrete implementation of the commitments of the declaration can be verified through the convention review conferences themselves. I have full confidence in this in the vigilance of the Federal Agency and its partners in the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u74	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. I'll take the time to analyze it in depth.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u75	Minister, we've already talked about this issue, remember? On 12 November 2014, a major explosion from the Tihange nuclear power plant caused a certain stir among the population on the site. Some residents fearing a major incident potential had alerted the police. Following numerous calls, the Integrated Police Communications Centre in Liège contacted the police area of Huy. The latter reportedly then telephoned the security officer at the Tihange nuclear site. It appears that no explanation of the nature of the facts could be provided to the local police area. I've already asked you about this case in early January. You told me that the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN) and Bel V had only been notified three hours after the explosion, which is abnormally long in terms of the concept of immediate notification applicable to such events. You told me that Bel V conducted a reactive check on November 13 and that the AFCN had gone there on November 14. The latter sent a letter to the operator requesting, inter alia, an analysis of the root causes of the event and a detailed explanation of the malfunction of the communication, namely the delay in notification and the late confirmation of the information. Once all the elements were gathered – which was not yet the case at the time of our exchange in committee – AFCN and Bel V planned to carry out a follow-up inspection to assess all the elements presented by Electrabel, as well as the future action plan to prevent such an event from happening again. You informed me that the follow-up inspection could still take place in January and I asked you to ensure that the neighbouring mayors can also be directly informed when such incidents occur. I'd like to take this up again with you on this case. What did the follow-up inspection give? What communication errors or failures have been identified? What systemic measures have been taken as a result of this follow-up inspection? What measures have been taken to inform also the mayors of neighbouring localities, whose population is sometimes even larger than that of the mayor of the town where the power station is located?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u76	Dear colleague, to date, the follow-up inspection has not yet taken place. The safety authority shall focus on the analysis of the Electrabel event report as a matter of priority. This report describes in detail the course of the incident, its consequences and the actions undertaken by Electrabel to improve its internal procedures and to avoid the recurrence of such an incident in the future. The Federal Agency preferred to analyze this report in detail before organizing the inspection. In terms of communication, the analysis of this report points to the failure of a communication process. As a result of the explosion, the operating engineer identified priority actions to secure the facilities with the communication arrangements. This explains why the Tihange power plant's internal emergency plan was triggered only two hours after the incident leading to the recall of the guards. The report then points to a second failure of the communication process because, at the time of the emergency plan, the custody framework responsible for communication to the authorities could not be attached within the time required by the procedures. Another frame had to be attached to call him on site. The communication to the Security Authority was thus finally carried out only three hours after the incident. As a result of this failure, Electrabel initiated several corrective actions to prevent such errors in the communication process in the future. These measures include the use of the Paging Astrid communication network in addition to the Belgacom telephone network. Another action is the recall of criteria for triggering an internal emergency plan to all engineers. Of course, Electrabel has also modified the process of issuing incident notices to ensure that the Security Authority is notified within an acceptable time frame. You ask me if any measures have been taken to inform in future also the mayors of other localities close to the Tihange nuclear power plant. At present, such measures are under consideration. However, I would like to point out that the regulations only require that this type of incident be prevented by the mayor of the locality. In the event of a more serious incident, the nuclear emergency plan would be triggered at the federal level and the provincial governor designated to manage the incident. But the possibility of preventing the mayors of neighbouring communes is being examined. In addition to the communication measures, Electrabel has of course launched a series of technical actions to prevent such an incident from occurring in the future. Once the Electrabel event report has been fully analyzed, the Federal Agency will organize its on-site follow-up inspection. At their request, Agency inspectors could be accompanied by members of the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation during this inspection.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u77	Minister, thank you very much. I thought the follow-up inspection had already taken place. It's okay. I understand the logic behind which this postponement was decided. I'll come back to it later. You don't give a date. I can understand your caution. I'll put the question to you in two or three months. I am also interested in the conclusion that will emerge from the ongoing reflection on the mayors of the surrounding communes. Sometimes the plant is located in the territory of such a commune, but the noise of the explosion is mainly heard by the inhabitants of the neighbouring commune. Therefore, all the consequences and the panic movement - in this case unfounded - affect the territory bordering the municipality of which the mayor is warned. Besides, he was three hours later. In any case, thank you for this afternoon's exchange.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u78	Minister, we have already discussed in committee the increase in the number of checks on alcohol in traffic and the question of how they can be organised best and as efficiently as possible. The objectives of the government agreement to increase the number of controls are ambitious, but the resources are, of course, scarce. We therefore need to look at how, with limited resources, we can carry out the controls as efficiently as possible. In this sense, an interesting article by Mr Bruggeman was published in the latest edition of De Verkeersspecialist. He proposed further simplification of controls after the introduction of the sniffing machine. He proposed that one step should be removed from the control, which would make the controls more efficient and quicker. I'm limiting my introduction to buy time, and I'm going straight to my questions. Minister, how do you evaluate the control procedure for alcohol in traffic as it exists today? Has the use of the sniffing device already been evaluated in a positive way? What adjustments to the procedure are possible and desirable? What is the timing of the roadmap to achieve more alcohol controls? In the coming years, when purchasing new devices, will you consider using combined control devices that immediately reflect the concentration of alcohol instead of a P or S? If so, what steps should be taken to allow these devices generally? How was the use of sampling devices evaluated in the last PDO campaign? Are you considering introducing it in general?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u79	Mr van den Bergh, the procedure, as it exists today, was established more than 20 years ago when the first breath test and the breath analyzers were introduced. In the meantime, legislative changes and technical developments have been introduced, each time making minor adjustments to the procedures. It is true that the whole procedure is relatively time-consuming. This is because the determinations must be reliable and correct. The breath test and the breath analysis are currently done with the same device. It is currently technically not possible to go directly to a breath analysis. The reason for this is that one wants to avoid false positive results by mouth alcohol....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The current devices are technically unable to make that distinction. In order to exclude oral alcohol, between the breath test and the breath analysis the producer has built in a waiting period between 10 and 12 minutes. During that period, the administrative data of the controlled person shall be entered. The results of the breath test and the breath analysis are also compared. If there are too many differences, no valid result will be validated and the notification will be given as a result. That is the situation today. As far as your second question is concerned, any adjustment which would simplify the procedure and thus save time is appropriate. We see three points of improvement at the moment. On the basis of Article 59 (2) of the Road Traffic Act, the legislation currently allows for direct breath analysis. There is therefore no legal objection. If the devices are technically able to perform valid analyses without prior breath testing, and therefore including the exclusion of the false positive results I mentioned, the direct breath analysis is recommended. The use of linked eID readers and GPS localization systems, which we have already discussed, is another possible option to store the necessary data directly without having to do manual actions. There are already manufacturers who provide this additional option for their appliances. To increase the number of controlled drivers, the use of the pretests, also called samplers, that we used for the first time during the BOB campaign, is recommended. I'll get back to you on that. As far as your third question is concerned, in order to achieve more alcohol controls, it is appropriate, on the one hand, to simplify the current procedure where possible. The time spent can then be used more efficiently, leading to an increase in the number of tests. On the other hand, the use of samplers can help to increase the number of controlled drivers because many more drivers are tested within the same number of control hours. The timing will depend in particular on the available budgets and any necessary changes to the legislation. However, more checks on driving under the influence should not be carried out at the expense of the quality of the checks, with the driver and his vehicle also being checked for other aspects, such as insurance, inspection and driving licence. If one checks, one better check thoroughly. As regards your fourth question, as explained in the previous answers, it may be an option to purchase devices that immediately reflect the alcohol concentration. These devices do not currently have any model approval and can therefore not yet be used. We will monitor this further, and as soon as we have approved equipment, we will look at the cost and the budget, but we will still proceed to purchase. As for your fifth question, the devices used to detect alcohol intoxications must be approved and used according to the rules laid down by the King. This means that they must comply with the Royal Decree of 21 April 2007, which was amended on 10 June 2014. The extent to which this Royal Decree should be reviewed in order to achieve a one-off bladder performance should be examined. For more information on this matter, I would refer to the Ministers for Justice and Mobility, under whose jurisdiction this regulation falls. The metrology services responsible, inter alia, for type approval and calibration shall also examine in depth the reliability of the appliances and provide advice in order to ensure correct determination and fair justice. It should be noted here that these services now fall within the scope of the Regions. As for your sixth question, we can conclude from the previous BOB campaign that in those provinces where the sampling was used more drivers were tested per check-hour. In addition, we note that in these provinces the percentage number of positive directors is lower. However, there are large differences between provinces. For example, a sampling was carried out in Brussels, Namur and Antwerp at just over 40% of all checks. This was non-existent in Walloon Brabant, 0 %. The sampler that allows a faster detection of alcohol undoubtedly contributes to the behavioral influence we want to come to. At the moment, just over six months after the amendment of the law on the use of a pretest, not all corps and units are equipped with these devices. Nor is it an obligation for them to provide for this in the light of the legislation which considers this to be a non-binding screening exercise. In view of the positive results and efficiency, its use is strongly recommended. I will examine, in consultation with the local areas, whether we should not impose an obligation to use these sampling devices, especially for areas which are far removed from the controls imposed on them. The federal market procedure for the purchase of samplers is still open. The first devices, supplied through this procedure, will be available in the second half of 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u80	That was quite a sandwich. I thank the Minister for his full and detailed reply. I believe that it is good to continue to be alert to technological developments. There should be no hesitation in the regional metrology services in the meantime in order to obtain new techniques towards model approval. The police must remain alert to use these new techniques because they can only increase efficiency further. The reliability and accuracy of the appliances must of course be kept permanently in mind. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u81	Minister, on your own advice, we agreed to bring together a number of questions relating to fire-fighting reform in order to settle the work. We have just agreed to have a first exchange of views on this subject on 11 March, if it suits you. In this sense, the questions put by Mr Van Biesen and Mr Vanvelthoven, Nos. 2341 and 2335, postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u82	Mr President, Minister, the Intervention Corps, formerly known as the Federal Reserve, not only carries out the specialized missions for the police zones and federal units, but also assists the federal units that need reinforcement. According to the Ministry's decision, five hundred personnel and these persons are deployed in all kinds of events and operations, ranging from law enforcement to security operations and large-scale controls. We are in a different situation now, of course, because of everything that has happened, so I will skip the rest of the introduction to my question, also to buy some time. Mr Minister, my question is how this federal reserve is now deployed and what are the tasks under normal circumstances. Is there a difference? Where are these members currently stationed? Do the different zones still have recourse to them? What are the relevant directives? Are the members of the Intervention Corps sufficiently trained to carry out the current tasks which they may not have had to undertake in the past? Have they been trained to resist severe crisis situations and extreme violence? Are all 500 members immediately available, for example in the event of unexpected events outside normal duty hours? Does that still apply now, in the current special circumstances? Can the various corps appeal to it? Are they now being used against the increased threat of terror?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u83	Mr President, Mrs Temmerman, the CIK, which stands for Corps d.o.b. Intervention-Intervention Corps, was established in 2005 and aims to increase the visible presence of the police on the ground, to contribute to the further reduction of the mortgaged capacity, the so-called hycap of the police zones.b.d. is replaced by.b. and the support of the local and federal police in achieving the priorities of the solar and national security plan. The Intervention Corps shall be responsible, in accordance with the Ministerial Letter 44, for the following priority tasks. The first task is to carry out coordinated proactive and reactive law enforcement tasks with composite units, sections and platons. The second assignment is the insurance of a federal intervention reserve. I would like to make the following point. In particular, this implies that the CIK should be considered as the federal police reserve in favour of the integrated police, i.e. at both levels, for specific administrative and police tasks and/or special risk events. Given the current increased level of risk, it is clear that stakeholders are now being deployed. Apart from these two assignments, there are still general assignments, which I will now give up according to priority. Question 3 is, after those two others, the most priority and is providing replacement for the mortgaged capacity of the police zones. Question 4 is to support the local police and the devolved services of the federal police for action by administrative and judicial police to achieve the priorities of the security plans. Question 5 is to support the local police and the devolved services of the federal police in the fight against temporary phenomena. Question 6, with the lowest priority, is to perform non-specialised assignments entrusted to the federal police. As for your second question, the members of the CIK have been assigned in each province on the organic table of the federal police to the DirCos involved, the directors-coordinators. Their usual or temporary place may be a police zone within the province. The members of the federal intervention reserve have been replaced by the DirCo Brussels. The CIK is thus assigned to the provinces and then there is the federal intervention reserve, which is here in Brussels at the DirCo Brussels. The guidelines on that CIK are contained in circulars 44 and MFO 2 and I have just outlined them in the different priorities I have listed. Then I come to your fourth question. The members of the CIK follow training and training for carrying out proactive and reactive orders of law enforcement with composite units. This includes special risk events. Then I come to the capacity, the CIK has 500 staff from the Federal Police operational framework, of which 450 are in the devolved intervention reserve in the provinces and 50 members in the concentrated federal intervention reserve. So 450 are in the ten provinces and 50 members are at the heart of Brussels. The members of the federal intervention reserve can be used continuously and everywhere. Taking into account the work organisation, this reserve consists of 9 to 18 persons, who are immediately available on working days between 06:00 and 10:00 and 21 persons who are permanently available on working days between 10:00 and 06:00 and on weekends and public holidays. There is a larger part outside the office hours because then the local occupation is lower. Therefore one provides for a larger occupation of the CIK. I have just said that the intervention force is indeed available in the event of an increased threat of terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u84	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I didn't quite understand the beginning of your answer. You said that we are now in a special situation. Does that mean the Corps is about to be deployed in full? Does this mean that local authorities can hardly call on them for special events such as high-risk football matches and the like? Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u85	No, you can't say that. They will now be deployed after local consultation. An event looks at the capacity and how it can be distributed. Due to the fact that we are at threat level 3, we need to look carefully at where we are engaged, especially in provinces or cities where special attention is required. In West Flanders, for example, the threat of terror is much lower. There the CIK will be easier to use for other things than in East Flanders or Antwerp. With the local authorities, the best use is made of these people.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u86	Mr Minister, we would normally end our work at 6 p.m. It's after 6:00. Can a number of questions be asked? Mrs Gabriels is already present from the beginning of the sitting and it would be nice if they could also ask her questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u87	Minister, the current security issue shows the importance of well-trained police officers. Our police education therefore deserves the necessary attention and financial resources. Police education is a federal competence, which in practice is paid for a large part by the provinces. Today, inspectors and Commissioners are trained in provincial police schools. However, this funding is in danger of losing weight in the provinces. For months now, the delegates responsible for security have been asking for clarity about the future of police education. The province of West Flanders even threatens to shut down all training courses because of a lack of money. I also believe that you said in the policy statement that you want to reorganize this education and reduce and concentrate the number of police schools. That's what the coalition agreement says. It is sometimes feared that, in the context of rationalization, the intention is to privatise certain elements of training. The police schools therefore insist on the implementation of the statutory management agreements between the federal police and the provincial schools. Minister, how do you see the role of the provinces in relation to police education in the future? Have you already entered into dialogue with the officers responsible for security? What was the result of those conversations? If not, are you prepared to discuss full funding of police education with the various stakeholders? What are the plans for the police schools? Who will be responsible for financing the training of inspectors and Commissioners in your future vision? Do you intend to privatise specific elements of police education, as some suggest? Do you believe that the private sector can produce better agents? What are your motives for privatisation? How do you intend to ensure that police training can remain quality and uniform in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u88	Mr President, before I answer Mrs Temmerman's specific questions, I would like to make a preliminary remark. I am still in the process of reflection on the matter. It is not possible to form an opinion on everything in four months' time. There are many scenarios that are conceivable. I note today that we are driving a lot of training centrally. The courses are made central. Let me give you an example. The courses used during basic training for police officers still contain Belgian francs instead of euros. They have been created centrally and, in fact, little attention is paid to an update. No policy decisions have yet been taken in this respect. Perhaps we should reflect on the educational competences in schools; there is much less here at the central level. I believe that we need to think seriously about this and look at it from an educational perspective, rather than a police perspective. After all, it is about education to form policemen. I shall then come to your specific questions, Mrs Temmerman. The ten recognized police schools of Belgium are almost all governed by provincial government. By subsidising the training organised by provincial institutions, the federal government recognises and supports the organisation of police training by the provinces. In addition, I certainly recognise the commitment and the many investments already made by the provinces in police education. Furthermore, I welcome the growing cooperation between police schools and between police schools and the rest of security education. In Flanders, the landscape is somewhat diverse in this respect. Apart from East Flanders, it's all campuses where both the fire department, the police and the medical component are trained. I believe that we should also consider involving civil security in these schools. I am the model of a concentration of safety education. This is even less so in Wallonia. I would therefore like to discuss this issue. You also raised the question of whether we have already entered into dialogue with those responsible for security. It seems logical to me that I have already entered into a dialogue on this matter with both the provincial delegates and the provincial governors. By the way, I'm in the middle of a round of visits to all those schools. I think I've already visited four out of 10. Moreover, the issue was discussed and discussed at the meeting of the Conference of Provincial Governors, both in autumn 2014 and spring 2015. You referred to the objectives of police training in the coalition agreement: synergy and cooperation with a view to rationalization, financing and management contracts, quality of police education. Taking this into account, I would like to set up a working group to provide solutions to these problems. We are not yet at the stage of policy decisions. With regard to synergy and cooperation, I think it would be useful to keep the basic training where it is today, namely decentralised in the provinces. I do not know whether we should offer all the specialized training courses in the ten schools. It can be rationally considered which infrastructure is best suited to which specializations. This would, moreover, encourage cooperation within the police across the provincial borders. We will set up a working group to examine the problem in full. As far as the funding of police education is concerned, consultations have already taken place at the level of the governors. The competent services of the federal police were present. I am not hiding the fact that the water is on the lips of the provinces in that area. I am aware of that. Most of the funding for the schools is currently provided by the provinces. We must go to a review in this area. Perhaps by specialization we can create budgetary space. As I replied to the second question, I would like to set up a working group at my level to review the substance of the funding of police education together with the various actors involved. Who will be responsible for funding in the future? The funding is currently fixed in an RB. The prospective inspectors and the prospective commissioners are federal candidates until they graduate, which means that until further notice the funding belongs to the federal government. I call for a very intense and increasing cooperation and synergy between schools. In order to improve efficiency, I fully support the award, in consultation, of certain teaching assignments to a single school or a few schools, as is already the case with basic training for agents, for example. Do I intend to privatise? No, I don't intend to. I have no intention of privatising initial training for prospective inspectors and prospective commissioners. As is the case today, I continue to support cooperation between police schools and schools with regular education, as well as with public and private organisations, for all forms of police training. In concrete terms, this means that recognised police schools can already conclude partnerships with external trainers today, such as visiting professors from mainstream educational institutions, private and/or public organisations. This can be done after the police schools have submitted for their training an approval file approved by the competent authorities to the federal police. External trainers can therefore be recruited, but we are certainly not going to privatise police schools or police education. That also answers your sixth question. How will we ensure that police training is kept quality and uniform? That question implies a preliminaries, namely that they would be quality and uniform. I believe that we should be in a continuous process of improvement. For example, the probation period was re-established after the initial training. The basic training as an inspector himself was also reformed with a view to more quality training which better meets the needs of the site. This reformed training will start at the end of 2015 or in 2016. In the short term, basic training for agent and subsequent initial training as Chief Inspector and Commissioner will also be reviewed with the same intent. The training courses are therefore constantly reviewed. I have just said which anomalies are still present, and this is constantly being reviewed. Other police training is part of a system of recognition which recognises training provided that police schools respect certain elements. The recognised police schools are also autonomous and play an essential role in the delivery of good training and quality follow-up. Besides, I've got to get something off my chest. We evaluate police training on their processes, for example on the number of hours they spend on certain training parts, such as in the shooting range. Allow me to make a caricature of it. When someone has spent ten hours in the shooting position, but constantly shoots far from the rose, he meets the conditions. However, if someone has only spent eight hours in the shooting range, but shoots very accurately, he will not be satisfied. Flemish education in mind, I think we can work better here with a system of end-of-terms and leave pedagogy to the pedagogues. If someone comes out of a basic training police inspector, he should be able to shoot, he shouldn't have shot for ten hours for me, but he should be able to shoot and if necessary and be able to hit. He must be able to control a weapon. Output parameters must be more important than the ten-hour process this and so many hours that. So we have to re-examine that and the police schools are also asking for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u89	Mr President, Minister, this is a very short question as a result of extending the threat level 3 over a random phenomenon. I admit that there are more important elements in the file, but we read in the press today that demand for armored vehicles is increasing every time there is a threat or a certain fact. It appears that interested private buyers of such vehicles should also be screened by the Home Office in order to obtain permission for such a purchase. The aim of all this is, of course, to prevent such cars from falling into the hands of malicious people. My very specific question is the following. How exactly is the private purchase of armored vehicles regulated in our country? Is it correct for the Home Office to screen any buyers? Can you give us more figures on this matter? Have any refusals been made in response to such screenings?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u90	First of all, it says in the press that the Home Office does those checks, but that's not true. We do not screen the buyers of armored vehicles, nor do the police. This is a private sale by a commercial company to a private individual. These purchases are not screened for security reasons. Nor do we have any figures at federal police level on the number of armoured vehicles driving around our roads. Since it is being adapted, these vehicles must also comply with the 1968 Royal Decree concerning the technical requirements to be met by motor vehicles, their trailers and their safety accessories. As a result, armored vehicles must also pass car inspection before they can enter traffic. We do not have the figures but the FPS Mobility may have a database there from the technical inspection. They may be able to answer your question, but I can't do that from the Home Office.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u91	Doorkeepers occasionally rely on police assistance for the execution of their assignments. Apparently, it is becoming increasingly difficult for them to obtain this assistance. They have denounced this. It used to be, but the workload caused by threat level 3 would have made that problem even worse. This results in significant delays in the performance of their tasks. They brought this to your attention through the National Chamber and their knowledge centre. At the end of 2014, there was a conversation with the integrated police coordination team. What exactly is the extent of the problem? In which police areas is this most common? Is there a structural solution in the making? How do we intend to achieve this? I refer to the legislative proposal proposed by our group concerning the outsourcing of non-core tasks in the key tasks debate with the police. Do you see a solution in that? What is your position on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u92	Mrs Gabriels, this is indeed a topic related to the key tasks debate. We certainly have to face this. I was president of a local police area in a previous life, and this was something that a lot of police capacity went to. Sometimes it was useful, but usually it wasn't useful. We really need to think this through. To answer your specific questions, I have indeed been informed that cooperation between the local police forces and the bailiffs has practical problems, through the Legal Social Knowledge Centre for Court Bailiffs and the National Chamber of Court Bailiffs. I have received from them a list of substantive bottlenecks. From my own administration, I do not have precise information on the scale of the problem, nor on a list of police areas where this problem is most common. To answer your questions, we have made a brief survey of the local corps through the Local Police Permanent Commission. There appear to be only communication problems in the region of Antwerp and in one Brussels zone. The problem must not therefore be overruled. In several places, in consultation with the bailiffs, a domestic regulation was already drawn up and/or a protocol was concluded. The local police in particular asks that the bailiffs should take greater account of the available police capacity at those times when planning their interventions, since the reverse approach is virtually impossible due to the increasing demand for police capacity. In many local areas it is now said to the bailiff: do your rounds, and concentrate on cases where you don't open or where you expect problems in one day. Then police capacity can be deployed. Otherwise, police capacity is sent out every day, while out of the ten house visits perhaps only one police presence was required. In this way, we are really wasting police resources. As regards your second and third questions, as you yourself pointed out, it must be borne in mind that in certain cases the police intervention is required by law and that the preventive action of the police is permitted whenever serious elements prove the existence of the risks to the physical integrity of the public official, in so far as they jeopardise the proper performance of his duties. At present, the core tasks debate is being held within the federal police. This discussion is part of this key task debate. I do not think we should say that bailiffs are no longer allowed to appeal to the local police. However, we must rationalise this whole thing. I'm sure of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u93	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm glad you recognize the problem. It does indeed require a lot of resources from the local police zones. We will therefore continue to discuss it in the global task force and the key tasks debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u94	We have already had a few exchanges of views on the intention to integrate the hormone cell of the federal police into a larger multifunctional cell in which phenomena such as art theft and cults are also treated. The proposal should be discussed with the Attorney General and other partners such as the BFSA. The Federal Agency has little support for this. There is a fear that the fight against the trade in hormones will no longer be a priority if the hormone cell is integrated into a larger whole. The National Hormone Magistrate has also expressed its displeasure about this. He fears that the long-established knowledge will be lost in this way. I do not have to tell you that the fight against the hormone mafia is still necessary. The fatmesters remain active. We must not reduce our efforts, but, on the contrary, increase them. Previously, the fight against hormones was also removed as a priority in the national safety plan. What is the state of affairs regarding the reorganisation within the federal police? Has it been implemented? If so, can you tell us what's going on? Is that cell fully integrated? How many effectives does the hormone cell currently count? How many are there in the optimization plan? Do you think that tackling hormone abuse is a priority in the light of our food safety? Are there sufficient guarantees that the fight against the hormone mafia with the optimisation plan that is now on the table will not end up in the forgotten corner?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u95	Ms Temmerman, police services are currently undergoing an optimisation exercise under the law of 26 March 2014 on optimisation measures for police services. The law was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 1 April. The Royal Decree of 23 August on the organisation and powers of the federal police was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 3 September. For the General Executive Board of the judicial police, optimization means that the number of central executives is reduced. Four former Directorates, in particular the Directorate for Crime against Goods, the Directorate for Organised Crime, the Directorate for Financial and Economic Crime and the Directorate for Crime against Persons, are merged into a single, strong and organised management of serious and organised crime. The fact that the merger is taking place does not mean that we no longer pay attention to organised crime or to financial and economic crime. The concentration does not mean, for example, that there is no more attention for the hormone mafia. That would be too short a turn. The organic table of this management is currently being prepared. The police management committee still has to take its decision on the organic table and submit it for approval to the two competent ministers, the Minister of Justice and myself. The aim of optimization within the management is to tackle a large number of tasks more cross-cutting and more coherently, rather than putting everything into separate cells. It is my firm belief that, especially with regard to organised crime, the more compartments one makes, the more difficult it becomes to tackle major crime effectively and to disseminate information. The aim of the optimisation is to address a large number of tasks more cross-cutting and coherently. It should also be noted that this management is not conducting its own investigations. The investigations, including those concerning the hormone mafia, are conducted under the direction of the prosecution within the devolved executives. Decentralised managements have been greatly increased by optimization movements. For example, for West Flanders, the FGPs of Bruges, Kortrijk, Ypres and Veurne have been merged. This movement allows the new FGP West Flanders to specialize more. For example, all specialists may be brought together in a site so that the expertise can be enhanced. The Hormones section of the former DJB central executive of the federal judicial police had five persons. Please note, they are assisted by a person paid by the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain and by a person paid by the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products. Eight police officers and a strategic analyst are included in the draft of a priority phenomenon in the new management. For a non-priority phenomenon, either a raid point, a network or a specialized support is being developed. In the latter case, three FTs shall be provided for. The Hormone cell could be this specialized support. It also seems logical to me that they can still be assisted by the two persons of the external services. Currently, the federal police are working on the 2015 National Police Security Policy that analyses the impact of a phenomenon, the threat of perpetrators and the vulnerability. It will then make a proposal on which phenomena are best identified as priorities in the next National Security Plan 2016/2019. This will then be submitted to the Ministers for the Interior and Justice. I hope that the various services will be able to carry out this work in peace in consultation with the various partners, including the College of Attorneys General. I am not going to anticipate the results of this exercise. I would remind you, however, that the figures cannot be compared. The method of working within the DJSOC changes thoroughly with regard to the work of the four managements by optimization. Operational coordination between the judicial districts requires less work because there are fewer and larger districts. The information questions will be dealt with in a raid point within the new management, where each section now answers questions. The strategic analysis capacity shall be grouped together. That is the essence of the optimization exercise. Do more with the same number of people. In addition, investigations into the hormone mafia are conducted at a decentralised level within the judicial districts, or in the local police services. It is not the case that the central-level section conducted investigations in the past. With regard to your third question, hormone fraud is not mandatory as a priority in the previous government's safety plan which expires at the end of this year. For questions on food safety you can always contact the competent colleague. That's not my jurisdiction. However, as far as the fight against the hormone mafia is concerned, the hormone cell itself communicates that the approach has been successful and that the problem has been greatly reduced. It is appropriate to use the scarce resources where they are most needed. As far as your last question is concerned, I do believe that there are sufficient guarantees. I would also like to point out that a new national security plan is being drawn up every four years. An in-depth screening of the phenomena that require the greatest attention at the time is carried out. The design of the new management is designed in such a way that it can respond very flexibly to changing priorities, which used to be much less the case with the four old managements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u96	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. I can only hope with you that the fight against the hormone mob will continue. Furthermore, I can only observe that the management himself, together with the magistrate of whom I am looking for the name, says that in this way the entire specialised work will be lost. I would like to believe you when you say that there will be a number of things that can be done better through centralization and that this problem is also related to other issues. So there's a certain logic in it. However, I hope that the hormone mafia and everything that has to do with it will continue to be followed. I am sure, like you, that after a while we will have to evaluate this in order to see whether this way of working is better than the previous one. Anyway, the people on the field don't really believe in it. It's obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u97	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u98	...is human.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u99	Mr. Secretary, under normal circumstances, prospective police officers go on internship for three weeks. They go on the job with police officers to gain experience on the premises. Given the increased threat of terror, these traineeships are suspended. Police schools can choose between postponing this internship or replacing it with role-playing in political quarters. Aspirants can be told that role playing does not, of course, give the same baggage and experience to be deployed on the ground, as would be the case with an internship in which one acquires experience on the field, in real situations. Recently, the increased threat level was extended by the OCAD for another two weeks, if I am not mistaken. Two questions. Which police schools chose to postpone the internship and which for role-playing? What impact does delaying the internship have on the training of prospective police officers? If that threat of terror is apprehended for a longer period of time, is there any alternative to the internships? After all, we must give the prospective agents the opportunity to complete their training and be involved as agents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u100	Mr President, Mr Yüksel, in the context of the current threat of terrorism and in addition to the problem of the incomplete equipment of a large part of the aspirants, there are two elements: the increased threat of terrorism and the stock breaches in the material they need for the internship which I will be giving more details about later on. Indeed, at the end of January, the federal police, in cooperation with the police schools, invented two possibilities to meet the internship of the prospective inspectors and, on the other hand, not to jeopardise the training course and its timing. The two proposals are to postpone the internship or organise an adapted internship. This adapted passage organises exercises and role-playing as realistic as possible in the police school itself, with the cooperation of mentors and/or trainers. In some schools the internship also includes activities in a police commissioner, for example at the reception. That can still be done, provided that the aspirants are dressed in civilian clothes and remain within the walls of the police building. The modified internship is organized by police school PIVO in Asse in Flemish Brabant, the police academy of Namur, the police college of Hainaut, Liège, Limburg and the national police academy. The internship is postponed by the Brussels police school, the West Flemish police school, the Antwerp police school and the East Flemish police school. In connection with the stock breaks, a number were already dissolved, for example the pepper spray. For other necessary matters for the internship, the stock breaks would be resolved by mid-March. Since the threat level is determined by OCAD for the whole of Belgium, the possibility of the internship taking place in certain parts of the country does not apply. You also know, I am not telling you anything new that the threat level has been set at level 3 because the threat was directed at everything related to police, including the schools and police commissaries. So it was not possible to talk about a specific city or province. Anything related to the police is under threat. The federal police are currently preparing guidelines governing the initial training courses in such a context, taking into account the internship objectives and the possibilities within the schools, police zones and police services. So there are indeed schools that have postponed the internship until we return to a more normal level of threat.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u101	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We must ensure that the prospective police officers can complete their training within a certain period of time. We will see what the situation will be like next month, but by then we may have to look for alternatives. I understand it's not obvious. If threat level 3 is announced throughout the territory, it is not evident that these traineeships should continue as correctly as possible. However, I would like to urge you to look into this with the federal police on the next occasion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u102	Minister, the General Inspection of the Federal Police is responsible for monitoring the execution of the forced return of foreign nationals accompanied by the police. Every year there is an annual report which is also delivered to Parliament. In that report I read a number of remarkable figures, on which I have a few questions. I noticed that most of the forced return did not involve any coercion. That's a good thing. It concerns 8 326 cases in 2013. However, in 2012, there were only 523 cases. Is this a typo or is there a problem with data collection? That seems to me to be a very remarkable increase. I don't think the total figure is right anymore. I think this is a misunderstanding. Then what's the right number? If coercive measures are used, we see an increase in the use of handcuffs, cords and velcro. This went from 0 in 2012 to 25 in 2013 for handcuffs and from 93 in 2012 to 398 in 2013 for velcro. That's almost four times as much. Does anyone have any other rules now? Has the use of handcuffs and velcro's become more of a standard procedure in forced return or in certain cases? Are those cases different? Are people different? Why is there a remarkable increase? The report also states that there is still no French language training. However, people from Gosselies are also repatriated. Has that been fixed in the meantime? If that is not the case yet, what will you do about it? I have another question about cooperation with other European countries. Co-operation sometimes also takes place with the police services of other Member States. In our country, as a result of the report, we have provided for a very strict procedure to avoid problems such as Adamu. That report contains guidelines and we are sticking to them. What about working with other European countries? If people are to be handed over to the police forces of other countries, do their rules still apply or do our rules still apply, because they are our illegals, our people without papers? Do they use similar methods? Do they use more or less compulsion? Another question concerns the financing of the inspection. Part of it goes through European funds. There is uncertainty about the continuation of these funds. Is there a problem? Is the financing of the AIG's supervision of forced return ensured? Are there any other means? Or isn't there a problem? Finally, the report points to a shortage of staff, but also to a high staff turnover in the social and psychological support team. Has that been remedied in the meantime? I know you haven't been a minister for a long time, but has that been remedied by your predecessor or by you? What are the reasons for this high staff turnover? In the meantime, has anything been done about the staff shortage? What measures will be taken? I have heard that the views of the police and those of the MPOT (social and psychological support team) sometimes cause tensions, that it sometimes clashes and that this could also be a reason for many people leaving.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u103	Mr President, I will not reply briefly. Mrs Lanjri, in reply to your first question, I would like to inform you that the 2013 figure provided by the Zaventem airport police, namely 8 326, reflects the total of all categories, including those categories in which police officers were not accompanied. On the other hand, the 2012 figure only covers the categories accompanied by police officers, which is indeed a comparison of apples with pears. You've noticed that very well. So I had the numbers checked with the airport police. You should read the figures as follows. For 2012, there are 523 removal attempts with police officers who did not require coercion. In 2012, this was 523 attempts. The figure for the same category in 2013 is 1 291. It is therefore a matter of removing police forces where there was no need for coercion. In order to gain a specific understanding of why the number of escorts is increasing without compulsion, a thorough analysis of the entire disposal chain is necessary. It's not just about the police, it's about the whole chain before that. However, such a study is difficult to carry out afterwards, since the persons to be removed can no longer be surveyed as to why he or she did not resist during the escort. So we do have the nude figures, but we do not have an explanation as to why the figures are so large. However, it is important to note that the figures given in the report also reflect the number of attempts. They reflect not only the effective removals but also the number of attempts. This registration is, among other things, an important element in the workload measurement for the federal police. Thus, multiple attempts may be required to remove a particular individual. There may be several reasons for this: opposition, asylum application, rerouting, cancellation of the flight and so on. Moreover, in 2012, the attempts made in the jargon, which you will know better than I, were not taken into account, called Accompanied Inadmissible Deportees, being the person held back at the border, and AINAD non-Belgian airline, i.e. by third parties. In 2013, these two categories, i.e. AINAD and AINAD non-Belgian airline, included 160 attempts. In 2012, 7 731 attempts were made, and in 2013 8 291. This means that 2013 of the past 8 years was indeed the year with the highest number of attempts at removal and the highest number of planned and executed escorts. In 2012, an average of 3.65 escorts per day were planned and an average of 2.75 per day executed effectively. In 2013, an average of 5,47 escorts per day were planned and an average of 3,18 per day executed effectively. This is a relatively large increase in the planned and relatively small increase in the actual attempts made. To answer your second question, in 2013, 689 attempts to remove DEPAS and INADS (inadmissible deportations) were carried out more than in 2012. The federal police apply the 2006 directives of the Minister of the Interior for the removal orders. On the basis of these directives, buoyants are used gradually and depending on the resistance of the persons to be removed. The increase is partly due to the increase in demand 1 and partly to the fact that the resistance of the persons to be removed was more intense. DEPAS are Deportees Accompanied. Velcro dressings are applied depending on the expected resistance of the persons to be removed. Koordjes are in principle used to board INADs and non-Belgian airlines. They shall be applied according to the resistance of the persons to be removed. The use of handcuffs and velcros is not a standard option. This is underlined by the figures in answer to question 1, which clearly shows that less coercion should be used by the federal police in removing persons under escort. Now I come to your third question. Intelligence was sought from the Federal Police Airport Police Directorate. For the training of French speakers, there have already been trainer violence control. It was intended that they would organise specific training during the first trimester of 2015, but due to the currently increased threat level, which dramatically strengthened security measures at the airport, that course was postponed indefinitely. At present it is not possible to provide additional training. The priority is to control airport surveillance. When the situation normalizes, a course will be given immediately. This would therefore also be a positive result of a reduction in the level of threat. Now I come to your fourth question. In the case of repatriation in cooperation with other European countries, Belgian police officers permanently accompany the persons to be removed. The country holding the flight shall be responsible for the organisation and safety on board. The coercive means that may be used are determined in advance by the organising country, and this is done on the basis of local legislation and the directives imposed by Europe and Frontex. Under the influence of Frontex, coercive measures are largely harmonised and almost all European countries use the same means. On each flight organized by Belgium, the control is carried out by the general inspection of the police, the AIG. There are several possibilities for monitoring forced return. In the case of Frontex flights, where there are several Belgian participants, the AIG shall accompany the operative part up to the place of destination. In addition, there are observers from Frontex and one or more participating countries on each JRO flight. The organisations or departments designated to carry out the checks shall be designated by the national authorities. Depending on the country, they belong to Justice, Home Affairs, Police, External Services or Organisations. As regards European grants, it is true that the current subsidy scheme expires on 30 June 2015. At the moment we cannot estimate whether and when European subsidies will be available. A possible approval of new grants is expected in June or July this year at the earliest. In the event of approval, the grants would be insured at once until 2022. Without the approval, the AIG will no longer be able to comply with its mandate to monitor the forced removal from the premises as from 1 July. As far as your last question is concerned, we have obtained information from the Department of Airport Police of the Federal Police. The airline police's social and psychological support team consists in principle of three psychologists and six social assistants. Five out of six places for social assistants are currently filled out. However, for various medical and statutory reasons, they cannot all perform their duties full-time. There are therefore five persons employed, but they are not all full-time. The number of psychologists is currently limited to one full-time job, one of three. This is because, on the one hand, there were no external recruitments in 2014. On the other hand, the federal police are monitoring the functioning of the social and psychological support team internally, in order to make the operation more efficient and effective, both for the guidance of the persons to be removed and for the support of the escorts. The first results of this study are expected in the first half of 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u104	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is good that the figures were clarified and that it was indeed established that the figures do not reflect what we thought they reflected. This is the first time that we have seen a serious increase in the use of force. You say that it is not entirely possible to find out because these people are not questioned afterwards, but I think it would be useful, if, for example, the next report shows that the increase is continuing, in order to find out what exactly that is. This can be the subject of an investigation. I'm glad to hear it's not a standard procedure. We must look at it on a case-by-case basis. There should also be no continuous upward trend. The only increase that may be in it is an increase because more people are shown. If there are more cases, there may also be proportionate more cases for which coercion is used. I hope that you will succeed in bringing in the European funds in July to continue this work. Thank you for your reply, and I look forward to further filling in the staffing framework, shortly following the police evaluation. It seems strange to me that the police decide on the implementation of that team. Am I correct in understanding that the police decide how the psychological team is best coordinated? Sometimes the interests are contradictory. I find it strange that the police should look at this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u105	The psychological team is part of the police force. The police are a big house, with many rooms, and indeed there are sometimes conflicting interests. This team is part of the police force. So it's the police authority that has to carry out the investigation. I can imagine that there are tensions between certain services. We need the police leadership to override it and keep the finger on the wrist.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u106	Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic100x.u107	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Yüksel's 2489 was converted into a written question.
