ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u1	Mr President, Minister, at the end of May we received the message that distribution company AMP and self-employed organisations did not reach agreement in a six-year debate on increasing the transport costs AMP suddenly incurred for the supply of newspapers and magazines. In 2009, AMP unilaterally increased transport costs from 103 to 219 euros per month. That is a blow to the face of the owners of daily business, who are already struggling. Even harder is the legal battle that has been going on for six years. The costs are so high that the Walloon representatives of Prodipresse have to stop fighting. This situation is way out of line. This company has already been convicted several times and can continue the proceedings without addressing its prices. They're taking advantage of their quasi-monopoly position. Neighborhood super.be, who stands up for the Flemish daily dealers, already filed a complaint with the Belgian Competition Authority, but did not receive an answer. Minister, would you like to act as a mediator and sit with the sector to discuss this problem? It is important that you invite not only the self-employed organisations and AMP, but also the publishers of newspapers and magazines. Would you ask the Competition Authority to deal with the complaint as a matter of priority?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u2	Mr President, Mr Vanheste, legal proceedings are under way. It is therefore not appropriate to intervene immediately as a mediator in this matter. I hope you understand. Secondly, the legal battle to which you refer concerns the unilateral increase in transport costs by AMP from 103 to 219 euros per month in 2009. Different procedures were initiated to the Court of Cassation. The Belgian Competition Authority, pursuant to Article 77 of Book IV of the Code of Economic Law, has the power of its own motion or at the request of the court before which the case is pending to submit written observations on the application of the Belgian and European competition rules. That's like so-called amicus curiae.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u3	I have not received any official confirmation that the Belgian Competition Authority wishes to intervene on its own initiative. You know she works quite autonomously. It is also an autonomous institution. Apart from the outcome of this case, which is also for you, I hope, even more importantly, that this shows that we need to investigate slopes for better protection of small businesses in a B2B relationship. In this context, I have already announced that we are in the process of in-depth analysis of the legal figure of economic dependence, as is the case in France. As you know, as Minister responsible for consumer affairs, I am trying not only to protect consumers but also small businesses. We are now fully engaged in introducing the legal figure of economic dependence, which would protect small companies in B2B relations, into Belgian law. It's a little early for that, because we're busy looking at things.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u4	Mr President, Minister, thank you for doing so. I'm looking for help everywhere for those people, but I've got my head against the wall everywhere. In the previous legislature we also adopted a resolution, but apparently that is not good enough either. Apparently, everyone's doing their best, but they're blocked by these lawsuits. I am pleased that you are looking forward to better protection for small businesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u5	Mr Minister, my question concerns the new Flemish decree on travel agencies and their consequences. In 2013, the Flemish travel agency decree was abolished. In Flanders alone, 48 new travel agencies were established in 2014. What does that mean? Today, self-employed people can start a travel agency without many practical problems. They must all comply with the law governing the contract of travel organisation and travel agency. This law has been introduced to provide the necessary protection for travellers on organised journeys. It stipulates that the organiser of the journey is responsible for the smooth running of the journey. Complaints about possible infringements of this legislation and problems are addressed to the FPS Economy. It appears that there are indeed complaints about, for example, the lack of legal insurance for travel agents. I therefore have a few questions, Minister. How many complaints did the FPS Economy receive in 2014 about travel agencies that did not comply with the travel contract law? How many of these complaints were about the lack of statutory insurance? Secondly, what was the result of these complaints at the FPS Economy? Thirdly, what will you do to ensure that consumers can book travel with travel agencies that are adequately covered against potential risks?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u6	Mr President, Mr Yüksel, in 2014, the Economic Inspectorate received 218 reports on non-compliance with the travel contract law. In 45 cases it concerned the lack of statutory insurance against financial inability. After examination nine of these 45 complaints were found to be well founded. A report was therefore drawn up for this purpose. As you know, there is a permanent monitoring of the travel sector. Whenever an insurance company informs that an insurance against financial inability has been discontinued, an investigation shall be carried out on the spot. As a result of this monitoring, 75 investigations were launched last year. In five cases, this led to a police report. In summary, 14 minutes were sent to the public prosecutors last year. It also happens that an offence leads to the bringing of a claim for strike. This happened four times last year. This approach will continue fully this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u7	I thank the Minister for the figures. Of course, we are going to follow this up over the next few years and see if there is an increase or a decrease. I think it goes without saying that the rights of consumers and travellers are above all in this context. Clients who book a trip today from a travel agency must today have the same guarantee and security as for the abolition of the travel agency decree, with insurance against inability and the like. There has been a relaxation in the establishment of a travel agency, but this should not result in customers experiencing problems when booking a trip from travel agencies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u8	Mr Minister, recently the clothing chain ZEB made illegal advertising for plastic surgery by writing a contest, in which the winner can spend EUR 5 000 on plastic surgery. Plastic surgery must not be advertised. Deciding on an operation is quite different than choosing a new lipstick or eyeliner. The FPS Public Health therefore forwarded a complaint to the court, which resulted in even more advertising for the clothing chain. This provocative campaign is a flagrant violation of the ban on advertising plastic surgery. I see some people looking questionable. I think that this complaint from the Public Health Office is quite right, but such matters will bring even more attention to the media. This is a flagrant violation. Minister, what are you doing to prevent such devious actions in the future? By the way, that also has to do with a circumvention of the bargain law. Will you take any action in this regard? I think that we should use all the means to limit such actions, often encouraging young people to, in my view, mutilation of their bodies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u9	Mr President, Minister, the ZEB clothing chain, which already has a certain reputation when it comes to looking up the boundaries of legal sales and promotions, came out again a few weeks ago with a game action, according to them. ZEB has launched a competition in which no less than EUR 5 000 can be won. That is not EUR 5 000 to spend on clothing, but it is to spend on plastic surgery. This action is not only about circumventing the law of sale or the period of prohibition, but also constitutes an infringement of the ban on advertising of plastic interventions. ZEB sees no problem in the case and refers to Article 7 of the ZEB Regulation. The winner must have planned a plastic surgery intervention before she or he took part in this contest. Minister, will you take action against this flagrant violation of the ban on plastic surgery advertising? Will you once and for all limit the creative and degout interpretation of retail chains such as ZEB to circumvent the bargain law?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u10	Mr President, as far as ZEB is concerned, you know that this clothing chain has decided to stop the much discussed solder campaign. That is a very good thing. There is also currently a court case pending before the Brussels Correctional Court for violating the law of 23 May 2013, which regulates the prohibition of advertising for aesthetic interventions. The Economic Inspectorate immediately started an investigation into whether or not to comply with the rules relating to the barrier period and the solders. This investigation, which has to be conducted in a contradictory manner, is still ongoing. I hope that no one else will be able to start such a campaign in the future. ZEB is being prosecuted correctly. The law of 23 May 2013 is also a competence of my colleague, Maggie De Block. The Economic Inspectorate has launched an investigation into compliance with the barrier period and the solders. This investigation is ongoing. I hope that this will send a very clear signal that we should not try this again and that someone else should not try it again. The fact that the ball is played very quickly gives the case even more publicity, as you rightly point out. The most important thing, however, seems to me to be that we have acted very quickly and very hard, so that the desire to repeat such actions will not arise in anyone. If that were the case, we will again be taking tough action.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u11	Minister, the campaign was indeed stopped, but their goal was achieved, and that is why the campaign was stopped. Perhaps such a correcting case is cheaper to get publicity than through an expensive advertising agency, I don't know. In any case, I am very pleased that you and the Social Inspectorate have acted; that is not what this is about. However, if such things are used to get free advertising, which was clearly the case here... ZEB also knows that it is forbidden, they knew in advance that they would be prosecuted and that a complaint would be filed. You say you're hoping that no one else is gonna get in the way of starting a campaign like this. To be honest, I think that's a little too little. I am quite prepared to wait again for someone else to do such a crazy tour, but from our group we believe that legal action should be taken, not only by prosecution, but by taking measures that make such action impossible. We certainly hope with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u12	Mrs Jiroflée, I hope, along with you, that it will not happen again. For the record, the law of 23 May 2013 regulates advertising and information on aesthetic surgery. There is therefore a legal basis for this. If that is prohibited by law and someone thinks they can make a difference by launching it, then the government can only act very quickly and punish it. I do not know what more one can do than to include in a law that advertising and information on aesthetic surgery is strictly regulated.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u13	I know. I know this is a difficult case. If something like this happens again, however, I would argue for creative thought to be given to whether something can be done there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u14	We'll try to do that over and over again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u15	Mr President, Minister, I naturally share the opinion of my colleague. We know these people are doing that kind of playful action on purpose. It is not possible that they are so cheaply raving the country and that their name can be heard five or six times a day on the radio. A few weeks ago, the manager was on the committee. He said with an air that everything he asked for was taken care of. That's what hits me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u16	I can understand that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u17	Minister, what an honour to be able to take part in the Committee on Business and Business, coming from the Committee on Justice! I can very much appreciate that. Moreover, I come with a very interesting question. I am not saying that about my own question, but because Mr Vanvelthoven has also added a question. That is certainly a quality indicator of the issue. Mr Minister, if you have looked at my question, you will see in the first paragraph a description of what the CBO means. I don't need to repeat that. You know that better than I do. On behalf of Wim Dries, my colleague from Genk, whom you undoubtedly know very well and who has also raised the issue, there appear to be a lot of mistakes in the CBO. This has grown historically because data has been taken from the trade registers as they used to be, but still today, because companies fail to make certain adjustments, perhaps under pressure from the fact that they have to pay EUR 82 for them. What about the margin of error in the KBO? Can we do something about pricing so that people are not prevented financially from passing adjustments? A company hitting the bottle is not inclined to pay another 82 euros. I also refer to the coalition agreement and the policy paper on your powers, which I have gone through in great detail. Some steps have been announced. I hope it's not just a Limburg problem. That seems to be the case, since Mr Vanvelthoven is also present. If this is the case, then we must resolve it internally and I will no longer burden the minister with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u18	Limburg is a precursor. The rest may discover the problems afterwards. This problem was presented to me by the Genk College of Ships, which, following a certain tax, found that the CBO contained a lot of incorrect data. Apparently, they're from where they came from. Some incorrect data has not been kept up-to-date. Some companies were apparently not even aware of the fact that they were included in the FBO. That means that there are a lot of administrative problems. The question now arises as to how this can be solved. As things stand at present, I understand that companies that have been wrongly included in the FBO will only get out by asking for a change of their own. It costs quite a bit of money, even though they are not the cause of that mistake. What initiatives will be taken by your department and the KBO to rectify this? Are we working to correct this on its own initiative, or are we waiting for an initiative from the person concerned? How do you see the solution to this problem before the rest of Flanders finds that these problems occur?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one day I hope to be able to sit in the Committee on Justice. The questions of both colleagues are very pertinent. Firstly, quite considerable mistakes have been made. In 2014, 21 150 correction files were dealt with. The management service of the KBO corrected 13 439 functions and deleted 4 706 addresses. This is a constant concern. The management service of the KBO tries to improve the quality of the data in several ways. How does this happen? The management service shall make the necessary adjustments to the data when the undertaking itself or any third party concerned finds that a given error is registered. Secondly, quality actions are being launched either on their own initiative or at the request of other administrations. Thirdly, the data initiators are given the necessary training and documentation. Fourthly, the removal of incorrect addresses or business skills is also carried out on its own initiative. Finally, there is a committee responsible for the quality of the data of the FBO. There have therefore been quite considerable errors, but one tries to keep the margin of error as limited as possible, with all the elements listed. You have also rightly referred to the fact that a company has to pay a contribution of EUR 82.5 to the point of entry at the time of registration, modification or termination. The determination of this amount is a competence of the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, Mr Borsus. However, I would like to stress that certain data can be registered, modified or discontinued free of charge by the company, through the application of Private Search of the FPS Economy. Therefore, the company should not necessarily go to a business window. In addition, in the event of an error, if the company has correctly carried out its formalities, but a given error has been entered in the FBO system, the company will adapt the relevant data free of charge. So there are a lot of situations where this EUR 82.5 is not due, but you can see that your question can have a lot of consequences. The processes for creating and updating legal entities are currently being reviewed, with the aim of simplifying them. In addition, for a large number of important business data, the CBO is not the legal, counter-adjustable authentic source. This creates uncertainties and hypotheses the data quality of the KBO. In the long term, the registration in the KBO should be completely legally contrary. We are very well aware that there can and must be improvements in the processes. There is also a need for further consultations with the Minister of Justice on the legal adversity, hence the reference to the Committee on Justice earlier. I would very much like to go to the Justice Commission for that. Finally, there is also provision for an information campaign which, on the one hand, will be aimed at enterprises and, on the other hand, at the administration. It is therefore a broader problem. We know it. The KBO Management Service has already taken the necessary initiatives to minimise the margin of error. There are also a number of policy initiatives designed to prevent structural errors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u20	Thank you, Minister. I am very pleased with your answer. You yourself announced a proactive approach. That was perhaps a suggestion I wanted to make, but you have cut me off, as you say you will raise it with the companies yourself. I think you should simply start by keeping the threshold as low as possible from the companies themselves. They should, in a manner of speaking, apply as few exceptions as possible to their rates. I would say: try to leave it out, but you are currently looking at how you can land there. Perhaps the KBO does not have 100% legal validity yet, but I believe that it is the ambition of this government to consider them as the database in which bailiffs, lawyers and others can play their part. Then, of course, you must address the margin of error. I am satisfied with your answer and we hope for improvement, including in Limburg.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u21	Minister, I have noted two things. If mistakes have been made that are more of a KBO, they can be solved free of charge. I think it is important that this is well communicated in the Genkse, because there they have received a lot of reactions. Secondly, I would like to emphasise that I really believe that such an authentic source is really essential. I know we've been doing that for a lot of years. I also have a history with that. We've had a lot of trouble starting up that authentic source. I know that not everyone is equally convinced of this. There are also elements of the federal level against the regional level. Everyone thinks one should have one's own source. However, in a federal country like ours, it would be a good thing that there is only an authentic source, just like the National Register for Natural Persons. If you can take further steps, you will certainly have my support.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u22	Mr President, Minister, very recently, CRIOC was declared bankrupt but rather quickly you announced the creation of a new structure, namely the Belgian Association for Research and Expertise of Consumer Organisations (AB-REOC). This association brings together the twelve organisations that were already represented in the CRIOC. This is an excellent thing for employees but also for consumers. However, it is learned that the allocation for its operation is EUR 500 000, whereas the CRIOC initially had 1.7 million. I therefore ask myself some questions, which are probably the same as my colleagues. How do you intend to make this organization work with such a planed budget? Why did you remove the subside of the CRIOC, causing it to fail, and then create this new body? What will be the missions of this new association? Missions may be different and smaller than those assigned to CRIOC, which could explain this difference in staffing. At the time, we asked you about the dissolution of the CRIOC by pleading for its continuation, with some modifications because it was clear that there were a number of things that were not working. I note that this may be the case, but I look forward to your explanations about missions, budgets and personnel in comparison with the old version.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u23	Mr President, Minister, I will return to the same concerns as Mrs Matz. It is true that since the beginning of this Parliament, I have asked you many times about my concerns about the future of the CRIOC. It is true that I have asked you regularly enough questions to try to understand your political vision of consumer protection. I must say now that I have not had the full answers to my questions and concerns. I find that the information is rather vague and unengaging. They do not allow me to have a comprehensive view of your political strategy in this area. Recently you announced in the press - I have learned this through this - the creation of this new body which replaces CRIOC and which is called the AB-REOC, the Belgian Association for Research and Expertise of Consumer Organisations, for which you have provided financial support of EUR 500 000. This new structure would, according to the newspaper Le Soir, replace the structure of the CRIOC that you pushed to the end with the fact that you did not have sufficient budgets. Minister, I come to three specific questions. In view of the small amount allocated to this new structure, namely AB-REOC, 500 000 euros, what tasks were carried out by CRIOC but which will be reduced or abolished for this new entity to replace CRIOC? Is there a willingness to increase the amount of subsidy during the legislature to defend and protect consumers? A second question concerns the staff of the former CRIOC structure. I would like to know where the procedure for the 18 dismissal of workers is. Was a conversion unit installed? Is it expected that these workers will return to the new structure? Are they regularly informed of the situation and precisely of the creation of this new service, as well as of the possibilities of engagement? Finally, what will happen to the experts? We know that there are many experts who have been appointed by the CRIOC to sit on the committees representing consumer associations, for example the College of Experts within the Umbudsfin. It is well known that they do a considerable amount of work and often issue relevant consumer protection opinions. I'm looking forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u24	Minister, for several months we have been discussing the future of the consumer organisation, the Research and Information Centre of the Consumers' Organisations (OIVO). Would it be possible to continue OIVO, to create something new within the existing structures or to set up a completely new organisation? You didn't seem to be able to get out. On June 10th we received the message that there was a new organization. It was a very long saga: from the deletion of the consumer organisation OIVO on maintaining it to a new organisation. If I understand correctly, 22 employees of the OIVO are now on the street. You said before that you would regret the loss of their knowledge. According to reports, the new structure would accommodate six people. Are the old OIVO employees being discarded? Will the OIVO employees be the new staff members? What about everything else? We received a cry from an employee that the OIVO employees do not yet know what they are up to or even have no idea of a discharge. That's no way to deal with employees. Minister, what form does the new organisation take? Is it independent or embedded in government structures? How many employees will it employ? Are they from OIVO? Who's on the board of directors? What's the organization's mission? What is the difference, apart from the number of employees and the operating budget, with the former OIVO? What happens to the employees of OIVO? Is there going to be an escort? Will they receive a proper discharge? Was there really no way to reform the organisation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u25	Mr. Chair, Minister, on June 10, you announced the creation of a new research association for consumer organizations to replace the CRIOC, the Consumer Organizations Information and Research and Information Centre. This new association should be called AB-REOC, the Belgian Association for Research and Expertise of Consumer Organisations, bringing together twelve organisations which have so far been represented in the CRIOC. It will be recalled that CRIOC found itself in a state of turmoil during 2012. Several audits were concerned with shortcomings in the functioning of the institution, in particular as regards the methodology of the studies and surveys carried out by that institution. These audits had led the then Walloon minister, Philippe Henry, to drastically reduce the Walloon subsidies allocated to CRIOC. A few months later, Mr Vande Lanotte, Minister for Consumer Protection, announced the planned disappearance of the institution. You, Minister, have inherited the file, showing as soon as you take office your will to continue the transformation of the CRIOC initiated by your predecessor. Can you give me the outline of the association to replace the CRIOC? What are his missions? How will it work? What about his staff? We must also stress this point, because it concerns us all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat that the presence of consumer representatives in economic cooperation structures is fundamental. Thus, I have released an amount of 500,000 euros from my budget. Although CRIOC became completely dependent on the SPF Economy subsid, following a management contract, it was an autonomous legal entity, managed by its own board of directors. It was the latter who took the decision to give notice to all his employees and to request liquidation. We have worked very hard to solve this file that has been going on for a while. We worked day and night to find a solution with CRIOC, as I said, an autonomous organization. As regards the form, twelve organisations decided to create a new entity in the form of a non-profit-making association. This was done on 10 June and the statutes were published on 26 June in the annexes of the Belgian Official Journal. The 12 organizations created a new entity whose statutes were published in the Belgian Monitor. For the new entity, if you ask me, they could have been a little more creative in their name. Anyway, who am I? BV-OECO is an independent legal entity with its own general meeting and its own board of directors, comprising ten consumer organisations. The social purpose of this association is, of course, described in the statutes. A number of Members know the history of OIVO very well. Some consumer organisations have in the past distanced themselves from the organisation. I will not mention names, but there are consumer organisations, and not the least, who have reported nothing more to do with it. We have succeeded in getting all consumer organisations of interest into a new non-profit organisation. The non-profit organisation BV-OECO will have five employees, four of them former employees of the OIVO. The fifth ex-worker has signed another contract of employment. So there's an external vacancy. In addition, an official of the FPS Economy is seconded to the BV-OECO to take the operational direction there. That person started the day before yesterday and I can also tell you that the non-profit association does not owe rent or rent to the FPS Economy. This is also very important for the future. One person, a lady, will be responsible for managing AB-REOC. I have also been asked a number of questions about the staff who are not included in the new structure. All I can tell you about this is that the procedure of the Renault Act was initiated and that all employees were given their prior notice last month. In this context, the Management Board has decided to submit an application for recognition as an undertaking in difficulty under the SWT Regulation. The question is accompanied by a collective agreement SWT, which makes it possible to go with SWT at 57 years. Following an opinion from the SWT Committee, the application for recognition will be submitted to me and, if necessary, approved, provided that all the conditions are met. For all other questions, I would like to emphasise that OIVO not only has a long history, but also has responsibilities and the necessary decisions to be taken when it comes to autonomous non-profit organisations. I would also like to list the changes to the former OIVO. Like all of you, I'd be a little bit worried about the future of this new ASBL. We have discussed to make sure that, at the end of our commission, there are no longer many questions about new institutes or the new NSAs. What are the changes compared to the former OIVO? Firstly, a priority list of advisory bodies is laid down which requires the representation of consumer organisations. The list is part of the management agreement. Secondly, it is clearly defined that decisions are taken by the Governing Board. The employees prepare the files, but the board validates the positions to be taken and receives feedback afterwards. Provision is made for an instrument allowing the Council to be kept constantly informed of the state of play. Thirdly, the BV-OECO is given the opportunity to acquire other external financing resources. In addition, it provides for reporting on the use of the subsidy obtained. Work will be done on timesheets and quarterly reports. This will ensure transparency. Finally, I can also state that it is explicitly stipulated that surpluses in the account may be used by the BV-OECO for the provision of facilities, including to cover operational risk losses, such as those of the social liabilities and employees. The €500,000 grant meets the tasks described in the management contract. Finally, a reference was made to the College of Experts in Umbudsfin. Its funding has never been part of the management contract with CRIOC. I can inform you that, at present, Ombudsfin is undergoing profound reform. I will come back to that later in my answer to Mrs Lalieux. We now have a new entity, AB-REOC. We signed a management contract. Everything is settled with very concrete elements. If we have completely eliminated the amount of EUR 1.2 million, we have requested an amount of EUR 500 000. It's also settled. I now hope that the organization will work properly, because I understand that in the past, CRIOC was a very sensitive issue raising many issues and presenting many problems, but I am confident that, thanks to the ten consumer organizations that are now in the ASBL and that have signed the management contract, the organization will now operate efficiently and efficiently.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u27	Mr Minister, I will try to remember the two beautiful names, BV-OECO and AB-REOC.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u28	Minister, thank you for taking the time to explain the various steps in this matter. I do not have any particular comment to add except that I think it is necessary to allow time for the tasks entrusted to it and to consider whether it fulfils them. With regard to CRIOC, the baby was sometimes thrown away with bath water, because a series of audits had been carried out and important missions had been considered. I hope that this new body will be able to operate more serenely than CRIOC and that it will not be subject to eternal changes either, because if it fails to be part of a long-term policy, it is also an element of fragility for the staff and for the missions it must fulfil.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u29	Mrs Matz, if you understand correctly, that is not my case! Minister, you often refer to the management contract, which we do not have! When determining the difference between the CRIOC and the new structure, you highlight the positive points that would be asked for in an additional way, but I imagine that there will not only be additional points that will be achieved by this new structure, since the budget is less. I assume that certain missions will have to be abolished, otherwise I must be told how this can work. However, it was regrettable to have removed a structure that had already existed before, which had been able to prove its worth. Even if there were malfunctions, there was a way out of this structure. We talk about it as if it were one file like another. But jobs are still being eliminated. It is regrettable to come to this type of situation without having a clear vision of its future. I would like further information on this management contract if possible. I regret that you do not answer one of my questions concerning the experts appointed by CRIOC to the various consumer association representative committees and you refer to an answer that you could give to another parliamentarian at a later date. That's a shame! If this is a new practical procedure in Parliament, I really regret it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u30	With regard to the tasks of AB-REOC, a few organs were deleted. The list of the number of advisory bodies to which the OIVO was a member was very long. I realized there were more than 30 organs. I was wondering why the people of CRIOC-OIVO should go there. The list of thirty advisory bodies even included double counting. CRIOC-OIVO was composed of many organisations. Many of these organisations were already in the same advisory bodies. I asked them to clear the list and to ensure that CRIOC-OIVO only goes to the bodies in which it has added value. We received a list of 10 organizations where AB-REOC members are sent. This is weird because Test-Achats made it very clear that it was not a member of CRIOC. Test-Achats and Test-Achats have now re-entered the new structure. If you now have to point out one thing very positively, then it is that an important consumer organisation supports the new structure, as it will work. I can say the following about the management agreement. The management contract is public. When possible, it will be transmitted. I am very positive, perhaps too much for you, but I am glad that we have found a solution with all the organisations involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u31	You're aware of the whole file. We only have piecemeal information. It is therefore normal for us to be concerned at certain times. On the other hand, I am pleased that there is something new in the file. We need to move forward and find solutions. This needs to be seen more clearly in terms of consumer protection and protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u32	If the management contract can be transmitted to the secretariat, it will be communicated to all members of the commission without difficulty.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your clear and clear answer, at last. I have already asked a lot of questions about this and I have always received an answer, but it is not clear whether we could not see anything. Probably because I asked a lot of questions, people from OIVO came to us. I found it absurd that OIVO staff should come to us with the question of whether we knew more, whether we knew whether or not they would be fired. I think it would be more friendly to discuss this with the staff first, before sending messages to the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u34	Mr President, I thank the Minister for the comprehensiveness of his answer. I think you really explained the ins and outs of this file, which, as I said in my question, you inherited. This is a delicate issue: it is still about consumer protection. I am pleased that a new entity has been created, that a management contract with the guidelines is in place and that you have been able to set up a budget. Is this budget sufficient? Does this management contract have all the tags? We'll let you work, see how it works. Our role as a parliamentarian is to check as it works, but not every 15 days. You have told us that ten associations have now joined this structure, around which we must make every effort to make this work. This is your new mission. We must be positive, we must go beyond the previous situation. The main objective is still consumer protection, and we have already had questions about it. I believe that on this point, we can all join each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u35	Minister, for about a year and a half, the European direct debit has definitively replaced the Belgian direct debit, the so-called DOM80. The European direct debit, which entered on 2 November 2009, has brought about a change that is not to be underestimated. The application, modification or termination of a direct debit no longer takes place via the bank but directly with the creditor. However, it is now possible to have the bank block its account for certain creditors or when an excessive amount is required. Experience has shown that this system can create uncertainty and administrative nuisance for some people and in some situations. What is the impact of the European direct debit on the bank removal service? What are the most common complaints about European direct debit? Is a European evaluation of this system planned? If so, when? If not, what is your position on the matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u36	Mr Klaps, if a consumer wants to change banks today, his new bank must provide him with the necessary support in changing his European address for service. Either the new bank provides the consumer with an example letter that he can sign and send to his creditors. Either the consumer provides the information of the creditors to the new bank, after which the bank informs the creditors concerned. Sometimes there are misunderstandings about this method. The consumer sometimes does not know that he has to take an initiative in this area. The European Directive of 29 July 2014 on fees to be charged for payment accounts therefore provides that the new bank should systematically inform creditors of changes in account number for the relevant European direct debit mandates in the context of a bank transfer. This will mean that consumers will no longer have to intervene. This Directive will have to be transposed into Belgian legislation by September 2016. Complaints at the European inspection as well as at the ombud service have so far been relatively limited. The complaints they get are about the following problems. Firstly, the fact that the direct debit order in the context of home banking remains visible to the payer's bank, despite blocking or cancellation by the consumer. Secondly, the reactivation of the direct debit after termination of the contract. Thirdly, the compulsory purchases, no signature of the mandate or oral consent without the possibility of submitting a direct debit order. The European Regulation of 14 March 2012 on direct debit provides for a specific provision related to the evaluation of SEPA payment instruments. I quote: "By 1 February 2017, the Commission, the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee, the ECB and EBA shall submit a report on the application of this Regulation, accompanied, where appropriate, by a proposal. In addition, the European Central Bank has set up a working group on SEPA migration, composed of several actors, which will examine the functioning of the direct debit and identify any problems with a view to possible improvements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u37	Mr President, Minister, I will not ask you to repeat this because your micro was not connected. There are still a number of misunderstandings today that cause frustration. It's all workable, but it's such a mess. It is very good that there will be an automatic exchange of data. I think the customer has other things on his mind at one of these moments. I note September 2016 as a deadline, but I will not stop you if you want to get there faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u38	Mr President, Minister, the universal exhibition opened in Milan on 1 May. At the time, the press relayed positive information as well as photos of the Belgian pavilion, considered one of the most beautiful. Until then, everything was fine, but a few days after the opening of the exhibition, the chronicle was covered by negative elements involving the management of our pavilion. The employees of the restaurant and bar have denounced working conditions and wages that are considered deplorable. Of the thirty staff members, some 20 returned to Belgium. The use of foreign gastronomic products was also denounced because of too strict conditions imposed by Italy. You have already been questioned on this subject on 21 May 2015 and have specified that you have asked the Milan Exhibition Office to provide as soon as possible a full report on the problems that have been reported. Today it appears that a legal action will be brought by the former employees of the bar and restaurant of the Belgian pavilion. There is a question of damages for the damage suffered as a result of their departure. Minister, what is the status of the situation? Has serenity returned to the pavilion? If not, what are the possible ways forward? Did you have an answer from Commissioner General Delcroix? Has he already given you the full report? What are the conclusions? If not, when will it be available? Has there been any consultation with representatives of other entities in the country to ensure that the public funds invested will not be affected by these events? Finally, is it true that a legal action is brought? Have the financial implications for the State in the event of a successful legal action been estimated?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u39	Mr President, Mr de Lamotte, the Belgian pavilion in Milan welcomes almost 10,000 visitors a day. I personally witnessed this with several colleagues from the regional governments during Queen Mathilde's visit on the occasion of the Belgian National Day on June 12. The departure of some 20 employees from the restaurant and bar as well as their manager in early May has indeed raised some temporary organisational problems within the pavilion. First of all, I want to point out that these problems did not affect visitors who continued to flow into the pavilion. Secondly, I would also like to highlight the spirit of initiative and efficiency shown by the leadership of the pavilion in the search for solutions. In just ten days, a new team was formed around Belgian chefs, and trainees from well-known Belgian hotel schools come to lend a hand to the core team during certain events. Following my request, on 7 June 2015, I did indeed receive a comprehensive and documented report from the Office of the Commissioner-General and the management of the Belgian Pavilion. I can summarize the main conclusions in the following way. There is a real gap between the reality of the facts as they occurred on the spot and the way in which they were mentioned by the press in Belgium. This is a good thing, because once we have the factual data on working conditions and pay, I can assure you that there are no problems in this area. It is remarkable that a few weeks after the events, several protestors who have renounced any professional activity within the Belgian flag have shown themselves to the management of the flag in the hope that they will be able to return to their posts under the initial conditions laid down. The preparation and implementation of Belgium's participation in the Milan Universal Exhibition was carried out in permanent consultation with all the federated entities of the country. There is also ongoing collaboration between the Office of the Commissioner General and the management of the pavilion throughout the duration of the exhibition. In particular, it is reflected in weekly meetings organized within the pavilion, in which the trade officers of the three regions in Milan actively participate. These attachés report directly to their authority in Belgium. In my view, this mode of operation is an additional guarantee of transparency in the management of the pavilion. To date, I have no information on any legal action brought by anyone. I would add that the members of the catering team who have left the pavilion since May have voluntarily renounced any activity within the Belgian flag. The management of the pavilion is in possession of all official documents signed by them attesting to this will.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u40	I do not have any additional comments. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u41	Mr. de Lamotte, I'm going to interrupt your series of questions. I would like to return to Mr Dedecker's question on item six of the agenda. I am flexible in view of the fact that there is a plenary and that colleagues have warned. I'm not gonna make my Van Quickenborne here. I will be flexible with colleagues who come and come back.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u42	The Advocate General of the European Court of Justice has published his Opinion in the case concerning the Belgian Reprography Tax in response to a number of questions referred by the Court of Appeal in Brussels. Those are not final statements yet, but the conclusions do indicate the direction. The court usually follows the Advocate General. The Advocate General sees a problem in the accumulation of a flat-rate charge which both professionals and consumers have to pay when purchasing a device that combines scanner and printer. Those who buy a multifunctional pay a flat-rate charge and an additional charge according to use, i.e. per copy, which is paid only by professional users. You may know from your previous life that all self-employed and SMEs had to pass on the counters of their copying machine to Reprobel on a regular basis and pay for them. The Advocate General also identified problems with regard to the transfer to publishers and authors. According to him, reproduction rights could not be charged for copying sheet music and content that constitutes an infringement and was thus unlawfully obtained. We can compare it with the discussion we had earlier on the home copy charge on illegally obtained material, on downloaded movies and music. In your policy paper, you state that, and I quote, implementing measures are urgently being taken to modernise the legal licence for reproduction and to bring it into line with EU law. The adoption of a new royal decree on reprography will reflect technological evolution and will provide clarity and legal certainty in Belgian law regarding the remuneration for reprography." So when the government took office, you announced a royal decree that there would be urgent action. How will you proceed with the file? Will you wait for a ruling on the substance, including that of the appeal court, to be given later on the basis of the question referred for a preliminary ruling? Will you act proactively? In other words, do you follow Jean-Luc Dehaene, who said that we will solve the problems when they arise, or do you rather follow the principle of governor co-president prévoir? Do you make a choice between a charge on purchase and a charge on use? If so, which one? Are you considering an extension of multifunctionals to printers to also obtain a charge for the reproduction of digital to paper? What further reforms and modernisations are you planning in your RB and any further initiatives?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u43	Mr Dedecker, it is good that you are quoting great politicians. If you act on it too, you'll take it a long way. But it was undoubtedly meant for me, I suspect to urge myself to some urgency. The case to which you refer may have a major impact on the existing reproduction system in our country. The Advocate General's conclusions may guide the subsequent judgment of the EU Court of Justice. Nor can it be excluded that the Court will leave the assessment of certain aspects to the referring court of the facts, i.e. the Brussels appeal court, which will have to take account of all the factual circumstances. We have already asked the administration to prepare for this, pending the judgment, under the motto "do not delay until tomorrow what you can do today." This preparation is now in full swing. Of course, it cannot be ruled out that a ruling by the Court on the compatibility of the Belgian system with EU law will require us to amend the legal framework. We need to look at that in its entirety. Obviously, consultations will have to be held with all relevant stakeholders in the dossier. Again, we've already set things in motion to be ready when the verdict falls. If those years wait, we will take steps ourselves. In that respect, therefore, I have done Jean-Luc Dehaene all the credit for the statement you have just made. At this stage it is too early to comment on the choices. We will make an in-depth analysis of the margin that EU law allows Member States, and of the limitations or obligations laid down by EU law on the flexibility of Member States to apply reimbursement systems. However, I would like to conclude by making it clear that my aim is to achieve a modern and simple regulation of reproduction which is in conformity with EU law. We have already taken the necessary initiatives on this subject pending the Court's judgment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. It is, of course, a good thing that certain things are being prepared. There is a real chance that we will also have to amend the law. The Royal Decree gives effect to the law and that will take some time. The KB was announced in the coalition agreement, but it will not be for immediate. A modern and simple regulation is the way to go. This is also in line with the harmonisation of the exceptions to copyright, which European Commissioner Ansip is driving. Modernisation in this area is absolutely necessary. We're in a digital age today. It is also an era of micropayments. You may know the application Blendle. This allows you to pay an article from any newspaper and thus directly to compensate the author rather than through a levy. Today we will be discussing a tax on copying machines and printers in a digital age! One may wonder what we are doing, and I shall leave aside the keys and the administration for SMEs and the self-employed. So let us look once at minimum harmonisation with the European Union and also at what the British system offers in that area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u45	Mr. Speaker, Mr. Minister, the previous legislature has seen the new Code of Economic Law and its eighteen books enunciated. However, the work could not be completed because Title 2 was not included in Book XII of the Code of Economic Law. This part of the Economic Code aims to introduce new provisions in order to create a legal framework for electronic signatures, electronic archiving, electronic recommendation, electronic time stamping and certification services. The bill to put it in place was passed in committee on 22 October 2013, but the vote in plenary did not take place. It contained specifications or technical rules within the meaning of Directive 98/34/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 June 1998 laying down an information procedure in the field of technical standards and regulations and rules on information society services. Such specifications or rules must, in accordance with Articles 8 and 9 of the above-mentioned Directive, be notified to the European Commission and may be adopted only after the expiry of the waiting period and after taking into account any comments made by the European Commission, as specified by the Council of State in its opinion on the proposal. In addition, the European Parliament adopted Regulation No 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions within the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC. The provisions of the Regulation shall enter into force on different dates and Directive 1999/93/EC shall be repealed with effect from 1 July 2016. Mr Minister, are transitional measures to ensure legal certainty for certification service providers, which were working in accordance with the Directive and therefore the Law of 9 July 2001 laying down certain rules on the legal framework for electronic signatures and certification services transposing it? Has clear information been provided to the sector on these new provisions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u46	Mr President, Mr de Lamotte, the regulation itself provides for transitional measures. These are intended to ensure legal certainty not only for certification service providers operating in accordance with the Directive and the Belgian law transposing it, but also for the legal certainty of users of these services. In summary, qualified electronic signature services issued in accordance with Directives 99 and 93 are considered to comply with the requirements of the Regulation. However, providers offering such services are required to submit an evaluation report to the supervisory body set up by the Regulation between 1 July 2016 and 1 July 2017. If the claimant fails to submit this assessment report before July 2, 2017, he will no longer be considered a qualified trusted service provider, within the meaning of the Regulations, as of that date. The European Commission itself provides a great deal of information and organises regular events for the sector. The SPF Economy has prepared a summary note to explain this relatively technical and complex regulation in a simple and methodical way. It also includes a part relating to transitional measures. It has been available on the SPF Economy website since December 2014. In addition, the SPF staff answer individual questions about this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u47	Minister, thank you for your answers to a very technical question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u48	Mr. Chairman, Minister, the new mediation service, set up by the Code of Economic Law, was launched on Monday, June 1. "The Consumer Mediation Service must inform consumers and businesses about their rights and obligations, and about the possibilities for out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes. This Consumer Mediation Service will also play a central role, acting as a one-stop shop", as the bill that put it in place clarified. For example, it forwards requests for out-of-court settlement of a dispute to another qualified entity competent in the matter or processes claims itself in other areas. The Executive Committee is composed of representatives of the qualified entities but also of a representative of the SPF Economy. The latter shall sit with an advisory vote provided that decisions on the management of the consumer mediation service are included on the agenda. In discussions on the law passed in March 2014, it was said that this new service should respond to 10,000 disputes in addition to forwarding complaints to the six existing services, which respond to more or less 55,000 complaints (2013 figures). An additional €500,000 was provided for in the 2014 budget of the Federal Authority. This was a minimum amount to cover residual complaints. In addition, section XVI.7 of the Code of Economic Law provides that the Consumer Mediation Service prepares an annual report on the performance of its duties to the Minister, which will allow us to assess its effectiveness. The article also states that the King shall determine the modalities and content of the report. Minister, what is the amount allocated in 2014 and 2015 to the Mediation Service to implement it and respond to the additional dispute resolution request? Your predecessor was also talking about some economies of scale due to this integration, including an economy with regard to rents? What about it? Has the integration of services already been put in place? Have any savings already been achieved? The Royal Decree specifying the modalities and content of the report on the performance of the missions of the Mediation Service has not yet been published, if I am not mistaken. When, then, will this royal decree be published and when will the first report be drawn up? On what topics on the agenda of the Management Committee of the Mediation Service is the Chair of the FPS Economy Steering Committee involved in the decisions made? I follow with the second question. Minister, the new mediation service set up by the Code of Economic Law came into being on Monday, June 1. The Mediation Service shall intervene in any request for out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes for which no other qualified entity is competent and, if there is one, shall forward the request to it. Currently, the qualified entities are the mediation service for telecommunications, for postal service, for energy, for rail travellers, as well as the Ombudsman in Financial Conflict and the Insurance Ombudsman. A qualified entity must be a private entity or set up by a public authority which conducts out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes and which is on the list drawn up and communicated by the SPF Economy to the European Commission. The Royal Decree of 16 February 2015 specifies the conditions to be met by the qualified entity referred to in Book XVI of the Code of Economic Law, in particular in order to satisfy the conditions of independence and impartiality. Minister, how many people have been hired into the new Mediation Service to respond to the additional request? What is the professional status of mediators working in the Mediation Service? What ethics are they subject to? Within the qualified entities, who finances the mediators and what hierarchy do they depend on to ensure their third-party and neutral character? Article 4 of the Royal Decree specifies the conditions of competence of a qualified entity. Could you clarify, in particular, the training courses to be followed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I will answer the questions relating to the Consumer Mediation Service. To date, he has hired nine full-time employees on a contractual basis. The regulations do not provide for specific ethical rules. On the other hand, their employment contract contains an obligation to treat confidentially all data and information obtained under an out-of-court settlement. The grant entered in the budget of the SPF Economy was 500,000 euros in 2014. For this year, it amounts to €507,000. In order for the various mediation services to be regrouped in a single location, i.e. a plateau of the SPF Économie North Gate II building, work must be done in collaboration with the Régie des Bâtiments. The move is scheduled for the end of this year, at the latest by early 2016. As a result, savings in rent have not yet been realized. As you know, the Consumer Mediation Service started on June 1. The first annual report is scheduled for next year. Before fixing its content, it seems useful to me to wait a few months to have a good knowledge of its operation. Finally, with regard to the participation of a representative of the SPF Economy on the Management Committee of the Mediation Service, article XVI.8 of the Code of Economic Law specifies that it is limited to matters relating to its management and that the representative has only one consultative voice. The regulation imposes no other ethical obligation on qualified entities than compliance with the operating rules and procedures set out therein. These rules are aimed, among other things, at ensuring neutrality, confidentiality, competence, etc. It contains specific provisions governing possible conflicts of interest. Beyond the Rules of Procedure, a contract of employment clause for employees mentions the obligation to treat confidentially all data and information contained in an out-of-court settlement. Let me turn to the questions about qualified entities. They are financed either by direct subsidies from the public authorities or by levies from enterprises in the economic sector concerned or by the professional federations which created the qualified entity. Some of the means may come from a contribution made by the parties to the out-of-court settlement under the legislation. Any possible contribution from the consumer must be modest. The regulations specify the criteria deemed necessary to ensure the independence and expertise of the qualified entities and the persons responsible for handling the mediation requests. In order to ensure an adequate level of competence, the Regulation stipulates that natural persons must demonstrate general knowledge of the law applicable to the type of dispute being dealt with, have skills in the field of dispute settlement and regularly undergo training in these fields.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u50	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answer and I will wait for the first report to come back to this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u51	Questions Nos 5183 and 5185 by Mrs Karine Lalieux are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u52	Mr President, Minister, recently the FSMA published its 2014 annual report which shows that the number of insurance intermediaries has fallen dramatically over a year. By the end of 2013, there were a total of 16 538 collective and individually registered insurance agents, a year later there were 14 753, or as much as 1 785 fewer. This means that in one year there was a decrease of 11 %. Unfortunately, this trend has been going on for some time now. Twenty years ago, there were twice as many insurance people as there are today. Since it is important for everyone to have expert and independent advice, I had the following questions for you. Do you know the causes of this decline? Do you know about initiatives within the sector to make the profession of insurance intermediary more attractive? If so, which one? Are you working on an initiative to reverse the downward trend described above? If so, how do you intend to do this? Or do you intend to do this later? Finally, do you have an overview of the total employment within the insurance intermediary sector? What's the trend there?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u53	Mr President, Mr Klaps, it should be noted first of all that the decline, as shown by the FSMA's annual report, concerns three categories of self-employed insurance intermediaries as a whole. So it concerns both the independent insurance brokers and the insurance agents and the insurance sub-agents. The decline is mainly manifested by insurance agents and insurance sub-agents, and more particularly by those who were registered through the system of a collective file. In that case, the file is managed by a central institution, e.g. an insurance undertaking. In the case of independent insurance brokers, on the other hand, the decrease is rather limited. Several factors can cause the decrease. First, commissions fell back in 2010, 2011 and 2013, which has an impact on the number of intermediaries. Secondly, professional organisations are making great efforts to make the profession of insurance intermediary more familiar and attractive to young people. They regularly organise activities for interested parties, whether or not in cooperation with education. Thirdly, as I have already indicated, the amended legal framework provides for consolidation in the profession. The trend towards further professionalisation is irreversible, partly due to European evolution. I note that the professional associations of insurance intermediaries share this professionalism in so far as it can be done in a proportionate manner. That is why I regularly consult with the professional organisation to find out what questions they are asking. Within my competence, therefore, I try to provide answers. Other initiatives fall within the remit of the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, Self-employed and SMEs. Finally, on the basis of figures published by Assuralia but from the National Social Security Office and the National Institute for Social Insurance of the Self-employed, I can see that so far total employment in the sector of intermediaries, including those employed by intermediaries, has risen to a stable level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u54	Mr Minister, in the field of agents and sub-agents, the decline is indeed striking. You yourself say that it is partly due to the substantial reductions in commissions applicable in the sector. However, people continue to be employed. That employment itself is not falling. The costs will certainly not fall, which makes sense for some people to give the brunt of it. Professionalization is, of course, okay. That's what everybody's for. A consolidation will certainly be necessary to a certain extent. However, I am very concerned today about the somewhat older brokers who are wondering who is going to take over their business. I therefore call on the sector to continue to look closely at the matter and to take the necessary initiatives in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u55	Mr Minister, the FSMA recently presented it for some time now, but it was recently when I asked this question that I submitted some figures relating to the banks' duty of care. The FSMA examined whether the investment advisors were able to provide their customers with the right information regarding their investment profile. This showed that there were no less than 210 facts in five large banks, giving false investment advice. The FSMA came to that conclusion after an open inspection at the headquarters of those banks and after mystery shopping at the branches. In the case of five large banks, in 40% of the cases, a large amount of investment advice was given that was contrary to the established customer profile. In 36 cases, there was an incomplete collection of information. The inspections carried out by the FSMA led to 106 orders from those institutions concerned. In recent years, such controls have been carried out before, but there have been far fewer orders formulated, namely 24 in 2012 and 57 in 2013. Minister, can you explain the orders that have been formulated? Are the banks concerned obliged to adapt their practices in response to these orders, or can they ignore them? Do you see the relationship between the number of findings of non-compliance with due diligence and the increasing number of orders? Is there a connection or not? Were the banks and the investment advisors who have been caught in carelessness in recent years followed further by the FSMA, or are the inspections repeated each time? In case of succession, how does it happen? Customers may have suffered damage due to carelessness. How are they supposed to prove that? That does not seem obvious to me. Can consumers or customers be helped in any way? What measures are being taken, particularly vis-à-vis banks, to prevent such cases from happening?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u56	Mr President, Mrs Temmerman, the FSMA has carried out two inspection cycles in recent years to monitor compliance with MiFID behaviour rules. A first inspection cycle dealt with the issue of conflicts of interest, the second with the issue of duty of care. It is of this inspection cycle that the FSMA has recently explained the results. The obligation of care means, inter alia, that banks must check the knowledge and experience of their clients and ensure that a product is in the interest of the client. 210 deficiencies were identified, 106 of which gave rise to an order. The FSMA's findings as part of its inspections were not contested by any bank. The banks concerned have drawn up action plans to address the identified shortcomings within the deadline imposed by the FSMA. The FSMA strictly follows the implementation of these plans and will also test the effectiveness of these plans on the ground through mystery shopping in the coming years. No comparison can be made between the number of orders formulated in the first and second inspection cycles. The inspection cycles first covered different themes. In addition, a larger number of banks and investment firms were inspected in the context of the second inspection cycle on duty of care due to the central importance of the issue of duty of care within MiFID rules. With regard to the impact on the ground, I refer to the annual report of the Ombudsfin. This shows that the number of complaints related to investment advice has decreased by two thirds over the past two years. The FSMA also did a pilot project on mystery shopping last year. 201 mystery shopping visits took place in offices of five banks. Two scenarios were tested, that of a risk shadow and of a risk-seeking investor. The mystery shopping visits took place in banks' offices where an inspection had been carried out shortly before. The findings of the mystery shoppers are consistent with the findings of the inspections. It should also be noted that the identification of a deficiency in an inspection or a visit by a mystery shopper does not automatically result in poor advice or failure, or that a client would have suffered effective damage. Possible shortcomings can also always be raised with the Ombudsman Insurance. The FSMA cannot impose sanctions in the context of mystery shopping. If the results are negative, it can follow the bank in question through its own inspection service and then sanction it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u57	Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is very good that the FSMA succeeds, but what exactly does this succession consist of? Are they doing another mystery call and, as you said at the end, if something is wrong again, can they sanction it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u58	There are follow-up inspections. An inspection will then be carried out again to verify whether what was identified at a previous inspection has been adjusted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u59	At that time, therefore, we cannot punish.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u60	My associate says that administrative penalties can be imposed, but that has not been done so far, I assume.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u61	Mr President, Minister, on Tuesday 16 June we received the news that the company Lecturama and one of its managers had together been fined over EUR 1 million for charging unwanted orders. Between 2006 and 2015, no less than 592 complaints were received from Belgian consumers at the Economic Inspectorate. Consumers who purchased a low-value trial package from the company were then sent unsolicited hobby and assembly packages for which they had to pay. In addition, during the telephone sales, it was not made clear what was offered. An authorisation for direct debit was wrongly requested. Moreover, consumers are not obliged to pay for a non-ordered package. They're not obliged to send it back either. Nevertheless, many consumers are still being overwhelmed, especially by telephone. Let it be clear that Lecturama is not the only one who turns out to be sick in the same bed. There are the company Tono and the underwear story, and the firm Flexifront with its razor blades. My questions on this are as follows. How will such subscription services generally be dealt with if complaints are received? Which telemarketing companies received most complaints in the period from 2010 to 2015? How many complaints were there for each company? What has been done with it? What communication does the FPS Economy have with the complainants? To what extent does the Ministry work on consumer awareness regarding the enforced purchase of products?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u62	Mr President, Mr Janssen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give you the general approach of the Economic Inspection of subscription pits. In the case of a Belgian undertaking, a report shall be drawn up for failure to comply with various provisions of the Code of Economic Law: failure to provide information on distance selling, misleading omission, forced purchase, etc. Where the consumer is the victim of a practice of a foreign undertaking, the competent authorities of the country concerned shall be informed and.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The latter happened, among other things, in the case of Lecturama. The companies that received the most signals over the last five years are Lecturama, Probea, Puzzle 4U, Calatus, My Safe Account and Hotel Piccolo. These are all foreign companies based in the Netherlands, Switzerland and Turkey. Over the last five years, the number of complaints against these companies varied from 35 to 500. Especially for Lecturama, that has increased considerably. Each complainant shall receive a reply from the Economic Inspectorate providing information on the relevant powers of the Economic Inspectorate, on the relevant rules and, finally, on what he or she can do best to enforce his or her rights. The FPS Economy uses a wide range of means of communication to inform consumers about misleading practices, including press releases, social media, the FPS Economy website and specific awareness campaigns.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. I note that they are mainly foreign firms. We certainly appreciate that you are taking action against those countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u64	Mr Minister, the freedom of business in the hospitality sector is being compromised. That was one of my statements in response to the criticism of the brewery contracts. You already reassured us. You would further investigate these possible strangulation contracts in order to reach a decision somewhere in 2016 through consultation with the relevant actors. You have also reported that you would investigate a set of rules according to French example to address abuse of economic dependence. These would not be limited to the catering sector, which would indeed be a good thing for all sectors in which such contracts constitute the service. The Arbitration Committee was asked to give you an opinion by September on clauses in brewery contracts which would appear to be unbalanced. Following your announcement that you would have a meeting on 16 June with the catering professional association, the Federation of Belgian Brouwers and the Federation of Belgian Drink Traders, I shall now return to this for a state of affairs. Firstly, what were the federations' proposals on 16 June to improve the situation or resolve problems? Are further discussions with the sector planned in the near future? Which other actors do you wish to invite or not to invite? Secondly, how will you investigate the cross-sectoral rules to tackle abuse of economic dependence in French terms? Who will you consult with? When do you expect to have specific information on this matter? Thirdly, what forms of cooperation could be affected by the ban on economic dependence? Would this provision fall under competition law or under ordinary economic law?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u65	Mr Janssen, I know the concerns of Horeca Vlaanderen and the proposals they have put forward on this subject. To sum up, this is the withdrawal of the block exemption granted by Europe in the brewery sector; secondly, subjecting brewery contracts to a pre-contractual information obligation and to a mandatory reflection period for contract conclusion and, thirdly, eliminating certain terms in brewery contracts imposing unbalanced and unreasonable obligations on the catering operator. For the sake of clarity, the Catering Federations do not demand banning brewery contracts but rather more balanced contracts. On 16 June 2015, I met the three Catering Federations and also the Belgian Brewers and FeBeD brewery federation, the Federation of Belgian Drink Traders. On 1 July 2015, I again had a joint consultation with these organisations, resulting in a joint declaration of intent to establish a code of conduct to support a balanced partnership between the catering operator and the brewery and/or beverage trader. A timing was also agreed. The Code of Conduct should be ready by 1 November 2015, to enter into force by 1 January 2016. The discussions will be resumed after the recess because the hospitality industry is now experiencing very busy times. The government was asked to play a role in this. So we're gonna take it as a tripartite meeting. The French rules on economic dependence are being examined on the substance in order to determine whether and how this could be incorporated into our legal system. It is too early to add concrete elements to this. The debate on economic dependence goes beyond brewery contracts. Just now we have with Mrs Willeman Talked to you. I want to work on better protection of the smaller company in the B2B relationship.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u66	I hear you've still got a few moments to talk about. I am pleasantly surprised that you want to land by 1 January 2016. We don't want to ban brewery contracts. It is as you and Horeca Flanders say: it must be balanced contracts, so that both the entrepreneur and the person who would rent the property may be able to exploit a profitable company.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u67	Mr President, Minister, I have recently read in the press that you wish to put in place a control led by the FPS Economy inspection services in order to ensure the full implementation of the codes of conduct established for insurance companies. Can you, minister, tell me what these controls will consist of? Will they be sufficient to protect the consumer who is often misinformed or even misled by the insurance companies by omission?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u68	Mr President, Mr Delannois, since 31 May 2014, both the Directorate-General of the Economic Inspectorate of the SPF Economy and the FSMA are competent to ensure that Book 6 of the Code of Economic Law on Commercial Practices and Consumer Protection is respected by the insurance sector. The Code of Economic Law sets out as an important principle that non-compliance with the obligations set out in a code of conduct to which the company has subscribed may be regarded as misleading commercial practice. This, provided that the company indicates that it is bound by this code of conduct and that it is a verifiable obligation. For this reason, it is important that Assuralia itself state that its members are bound by the code of conduct and that an offence can be considered an unfair commercial practice. Both the Directorate-General of the Economic Inspectorate of the SPF Economy and the FSMA have the possibility to carry out controls in this area. FSMA is also responsible for monitoring compliance with the rules of conduct set out in the Insurance Act as well as in the various royal decrees in which the rules of conduct have been declared applicable in the insurance sector. I am convinced that with the competence of both bodies and the existing rules and codes of conduct, the legislative framework is sufficient. This framework came into force only a few months ago. It is now up to both bodies to carry out their mission on the ground. It goes without saying that the results will be monitored and evaluated. In this regard, I am also confident that you will ask me the question in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u69	We fully agree, minister, in a short time, I will ask you another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u70	Mr Minister, De Nederlandsche Bank's supervisor says that because the big banks in the Netherlands together hold a large part of the mortgage market, the competition is hardly playing, with the result that mortgages are expensive and banks can keep their margins high. It goes without saying that the consumer is the victim of this. Higher prices and a less good service are only two consequences. What is the market share of the four largest banks in Belgium on mortgages? Is there also a competition problem in Belgium? If so, can we do something about it? What is the market share of large banks in mortgages in our country compared to neighbouring countries? Has the FSMA already examined whether the quality of the service is affected?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u71	Mr Klaps, at the end of 2014, the market share of the mortgages of the four largest Belgian banks was 74.2 %. Even if the market share of the four largest banks is 74 percent, there can be no talk of low competition in the Belgian mortgage market. As a result of the financial crisis, the Belgian banks have focused heavily on the Belgian market in recent years, thus increasing competition between the large banks in this market. Besides these four large institutions, there are other banks that are very active in the Belgian mortgage market. Moreover, the situation in the Netherlands cannot be compared with the situation in Belgium because the structure of the Dutch market is not comparable to that of the Belgian market. In the past, large banks have granted much larger loans in the Netherlands, up to 120 percent or more of the purchase price to people who are not eligible, given the nature and level of their income. In the Netherlands, there is also much more use of loans where only interest is paid off and only after many years capital is also used. In view of all the above, the Competition Authority has not yet opened an investigation. Until recently, the FSMA exercised supervision over the mortgage companies. Such supervision covered both the pre-contractual phase and the execution and conduct of the credit agreements with a view to protecting the borrower. Under this competence, the FSMA carried out inspections and also dealt with complaints from consumers. It should be noted that the number of complaints concerning the services of mortgage companies is negligible. Just to be clear: it is the FPS Economy that is competent for this, but you may have known that as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u72	Indeed, Minister, I do not have any indication today that there would be a problem in Belgium. However, the situation needs to be monitored on a permanent basis so that we do not have a competitive catastrophe, as recently emerged in the distribution sector after so many years. If we continue to follow the case closely, that will certainly be fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u73	Mr President, Minister, this is perhaps my most sensible question today, because you have suggested it to me yourself! I therefore felt morally obliged to submit this question. A few weeks ago, I questioned you about the operation and possible reform of the charging agencies. You replied to me that you were considering how to optimize the Auto tarification agency and that you had planned a meeting with the presidents of the Auto tarification agency and the Natural Disasters tarification agency. The logical question is therefore what was discussed there. What are the working points and what are the concrete measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u74	Thank you, Mr Klaps, for your most sensible question. Minister, what is your most sensible answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u75	Mr President, I hope that after this answer no further questions will be asked on this matter, but we will have to wait and see. Mr Klaps, I can confirm that my cabinet had a meeting with the chairman of both the Auto tarification agency and the Natural Disasters tarification agency. It's about the same person, by the way, which makes it easier. As you know, the Auto charging agency provides the candidate insurer with a charge for the car liability insurance which, if he agrees, could lead to the conclusion of an insurance contract with one of the insurers appointed for that purpose. The Natural disaster charging agency shall establish a fee for flood insurance, for simple risk derivatives situated in the risk area or risk zone. In my previous reply, I had already indicated that the role of the charging agency for natural disasters is reduced, as a large majority can obtain insurance on the regular market. The maintenance was therefore mainly at the charging agency Auto. During these consultations, a number of statistics were discussed in greater detail. This showed that 17% of the files submitted dealt with a person under 25 years of age. Of that category, 89 percent had already had an accident in the past. Of 20% of these young people, the licence had already been withdrawn. Those young people could still get insurance, thanks to the Auto charging agency, which they were no longer offered on the regular market. For the young people who come from the school banks, the charging agency is not immediately a solution, since it is intended for drivers who have already been refused three times by a private insurer. Since these young people have not yet suffered damage and their driving licences have not been withdrawn, they will normally not be refused on the private insurance market for a car with normal capacity. We will meet other stakeholders in the next few weeks, after which we will be able to make the necessary decisions on the operation of both charging agencies in this dossier. We will then take the necessary steps to improve the transparency of the follow-up office. With this last sentence, I may have provoked a new question, and that is my fault. It is important, and I appreciate that you are following this matter closely. I gave you the results of this interview and what the next steps in this dossier will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u76	Thank you, Minister, for this state of affairs. I understand that the dossier has not yet been finalised, and we will certainly discuss it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u77	Minister, I asked a similar question about meat a few months ago. Today it's about mayonnaise, but I'm not planning on going off the whole barbecue bayon. The composition of mayonnaise is laid down in the Royal Decree of 1955. It's not easy to make mayonnaise. It must contain at least 80% fat and 7,5 % egg yolk before being marketed as mayonnaise. However, other countries within the European Union use other percentages based on the 1991 EU Code of Practice for Mayonnaise. Mayonnaises produced in these countries must contain at least 70% fat and 5% egg yolk. This means that, in accordance with the free movement of goods, these countries can bring mayonnaise to our Belgian market with different standards, which is unfair competition against our own mayonnaise producers. The sector has been asking for an adaptation of this royal decree for some time. According to them, it is only in the sense that they can innovate and compete with the other European producers. However, the question of the sector is a reflection of the Council's attitude to consumption, which has repeatedly expressed a negative opinion on the amendment of the Royal Decree. Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Firstly, are you aware of the industry's demand to revise the Royal Decree of 1955? What is your view on this? What is the Council's view on this subject for consumption? Secondly, have you already consulted with the administration and with the Public Health Office regarding that review? If so, what was the outcome of those conversations? If not, will there be a conversation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u78	Mr President, nothing in this life is strange to me. I am also aware of this non-important dossier and of the industry's request to amend the Royal Decree of 1955. Mrs Hufkens, however, until recently there was a difference of opinion between the sector and consumer representatives on the percentages of fat and egg yolk that should contain mayonnaise. The parties concerned will be brought to the table in order to draw up a final proposal to amend the Royal Decree. Hopefully, after many years of discussion about the mayonnaise, we will be able to work out an adaptation of the Royal Decree...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u79	A fascinating discussion!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u80	Mr President, you do not know how exciting my day job is! We will try to reach an agreement as soon as possible, because I understand that the representatives of consumers can be brought to some insights in order to adapt that Royal Decree of 1955. It is the standard procedure that is consulted with the Public Health Office in the adaptation of food composition rules. It is clear that the Public Health Office will be involved in the forthcoming discussions on the adaptation of the decision. I hope that he will not be a major problem now, when we have convinced the others to cooperate in adapting the RB. In this way, perhaps in the future, when you ask for mayonnaise, Mr President, the proportion of the fat will be less, which could benefit your health.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u81	I've rarely heard so ironic talk about mayonnaise. Anyway, I think it's an important matter. It is an important product and it is important for our producers that there is no unfair competition. So I am pleased that there will finally be a comparison and that you will take the initiative to adapt that KB. That is certainly a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u82	Mr. Secretary, on the Day of Carers, you announced that there will be insurance for carers. Where so far in the event of accidents involving physical or physical damage it was hoped that the family insurance would compensate them, there would now be full insurance. If you are registered with an official household care institution, you could make use of it. This does not seem to me to be an unnecessary luxury. Carers are volunteers who do excellent work. They make a big difference in our society and in our way of dealing with the needy. We must therefore do everything we can to ensure that they do their work with peace of mind. Minister, I am in favour of your proposal, but you will probably understand that I have questions about your announcement. What exactly will this insurance cover? Can you estimate the cost of this insurance? When would it be operational? Is there going to be one insurance for all carers, or are there any gradations according to the type of work they do? How will you take this measure to the carers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u83	Minister, Mr Vanheste has already outlined the subject. Our group naturally welcomes the proposal that you have launched because our party is committed to the caregivers. We want to support them in all respects. We are therefore pleased that you have launched the proposal to provide care insurance by the insurance companies. Minister, I too have a number of questions about the implementation of this insurance. First of all, can you give me more information about the family care insurance? Who will be able to offer them? In other words, where can carers go when they want this insurance? Secondly, are there any conditions attached to this insurance? Thirdly, what risks will the special insurance cover for carers? Fourthly, what will the cost of this insurance be about? Fifth and finally, when will this insurance be available?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u84	Mr President, you know that there is a great demand from the field to be able to be insured against certain risks, both for physical accidents and for civil liability. Through the private market, however, it proved very difficult to find tailor-made insurance that is still affordable. The risks are difficult to estimate and the needs are very specific for this particular sector. That is why we have been working together with the organizations in the care sector and the insurance companies to find a solution to this problem. So far, three insurers have been willing to cooperate, in particular KBC, Belfius Insurance and Ethias Insurance. Information on insurance may be obtained from them or from the approved cloaking organizations. It is expected that they will bring insurance to the market effectively very soon. The insurance covers liability, physical damage and damage to appliances used as part of the household care. Legal aid insurance is also offered in the package. The condition for joining this family care insurance scheme is a simple application as a caregiver to one of the seven cloak organizations in Belgium. Insurance will also not vary depending on the work done. Depending on the number of carers who would endorse such a policy, the premium can be kept very low. Since the engaged insurers have not yet made a definitive premium calculation, I cannot, of course, yet report rates. The rates will also depend on the extent to which full or partial coverage is requested. Finally, the insurers' offer will be submitted before the summer recess to the cloaking organizations, which will be invited to my cabinet next Monday. Then there's probably a new question. I hope, of course, that the cloak organisations concerned will join the insurance and, if necessary, intervene in the premiums for registered carers. The most important thing, however, is that, after very intensive discussions, we found at least three insurance companies willing to develop and market insurance. The practical way forward with the man-made organizations will be further developed in the coming weeks, for example on premiums. Hopefully everyone will be able to board and be satisfied with the new product.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u85	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I can give you another tip. If the prices are known and known how it will be handled, it would be good to inform the municipalities of them. There are many people who apply care but are not linked to an organization.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u86	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. One of my additional questions is similar to that of Mr Vanheste. I understand that, in order to obtain this coverage, we can only get on as a caregiver through a recognised care organisation. For example, there are carers who are only known through the OCMWFs. The OCMW's often also give a premium to carers who are not members of a recognised organisation. Can they appeal to it or not? In the current answer, I do not hear of it. Maybe we can still see if there's any option, maybe through the VVSG. I believe that this option can be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u87	Minister, we have learned through De Tijd that you intend to increase the cost of a hospitalisation premium by introducing a new medical index. In times of index jumps for consumers and all kinds of price increases, I find that incomprehensible. The hospitalisation insurance is now linked to the index, unless an insurer requests an exception from the National Bank of Belgium, as DKV did at the beginning of this year. Their premiums then rose by 5,73 % in a blow. That is for consumers. You also know that people in great poverty delay the cost of insurance. Opening the door now to such an increase will again cause many people to refrain from taking out hospitalization insurance. Moreover, there are many other ways to reduce the cost of health care than to increase these premiums, for example by tackling the fees, by eliminating unauthorized supplements and investigations, by encouraging treatment in a double room and so on. Minister, you have clearly recognised colour and you have taken the side of the insurers. I'd like to be given a statement of reasons why you made this decision. So I have a few questions for you. How many percent do you think the premium could increase? Based on what data do you determine this percentage? With regard to the exceptions requested from the National Bank, would I have liked to know how many companies have requested an exemption from the National Bank of Belgium in the last three years? For what reason? How many of these applications were approved and how many were refused? What factors does the National Bank take into account when dealing with an exception? Is it also looking at the costs of society? If they are not controlled, one cannot expect the consumer to pay for this. Are you in favour of a medical index as proposed by Assuralia? If so, how do you see that evolving? How has the medical index evolved in recent years? How will you guarantee that insurance premiums will remain payable? Do you have an overview of the relationship between the medical costs paid and the industry's contributions collected over the past three years? How much is the profit? How much are the administration costs? What is the evolution of the ageing reserve?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u88	Mrs Dierick had a similar question. It is not present; therefore its question No. 5623.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u89	Mr President, Mrs Vanheste, I am not taking sides, I am trying to solve cases. Following consultation with the sector, a draft KB was drawn up. This should avoid major tariff adjustments by making the increase more gradual. There are different systems now. Some people are given increases. It is to make the system more sustainable, transparent and gradual that we have taken this to heart. In addition, the Royal Decree provides for an upper limit in order to avoid excessive increases and to keep hospitalisation insurance affordable. KB's draft is currently being examined by the Insurance Committee. On the basis of this opinion, it will be examined whether further adjustments are needed. This KB is intended to enter into force on 1 January 2016. Between 2013 and 2015, nine applications for tariff increases were submitted to the National Bank from six different insurance companies. These applications are mainly due to the abolition of the medical index. Of the nine applications, five have already been approved. The remaining four files are still under discussion. The National Bank approaches the files from a prudential point of view. This means looking at the profitability of the products and taking a decision on the basis of the elements that generate this profitability. The evolution of the medical index can be consulted on the website of the FPS Economy. At present, I do not have an overview of the relationship between the medical costs paid and the premium income collected in the sector over the last three years. The basic figures for the last financial year are currently requested by the different competent authorities in the context of the ongoing reporting obligations of insurance undertakings and mutual assistance companies. I hope that the opinion of the Committee on Insurance will reach us by September. Indeed, all sections of society of some magnitude in this matter are in this area. I propose that we await that opinion and that a royal decision be taken on that basis. The intention is very clear. If the National Bank approves it, then there will be shocks in that dossier, and we want to avoid that, because we will be drawing up a royal decision with that advice in hand in the autumn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u90	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. When it comes to hospitalization insurance, I have very different ideas anyway. However, I will follow that dossier very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u91	Unfortunately, Minister, my question is very topical. As part of its mission to contribute to the country's financial stability, the National Bank was designated as macro-prudential authority by the law of 25 April 2014. In this capacity, she recently published her first report. This showed that, as a result of low interest rates, insurers are buying more and more high-risk government bonds. On average, 11% of insurers' portfolios consist of government securities with a low BBB rating. More worrying is that in 2014 no less than one third of the purchased government bonds only had that BBB rating. Insurers, especially life insurance, therefore take more risks to meet the pressure of low interest rates. The National Bank therefore warns the insurers to set up reserve jars and not to pay out all the profits to the shareholders. It is important that we do not let insurers slip into a more speculative world. Minister, do you think that there should be a limit on both the number of speculative government bonds and the number of lower-quality government bonds that insurers should have in their portfolio? If so, what should that limit be? Do the insurers still have Greek government paper in their wallet? If so, how many? Are the guaranteed performance of insurers at risk from a default of Greece?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u92	Mr Klaps, first of all I would like to point out that insurance companies, both Belgian and other, hold an important portfolio of government bonds, because that type of investment involves less risk derivatives and allows better matching with their obligations. As more assets have been purchased in the past with high returns that are now due to expire and therefore need to be re-invested to lower returns, the challenge for life insurance companies is increasing in order to maintain their profitability. This challenge will become even greater when the Solvency II Directive, which imposes heavier solvency requirements, will enter into force on 1 January 2016. According to the National Bank, there is only a limited decrease in the quality of the assets to cover liabilities. This deterioration is partly due to a recent reduction in credit ratings by credit rating agencies. The supervisor is following that evolution very closely. The current market conditions therefore encourage some insurance companies to look for returns that are slightly higher than what is now feasible with Belgian Treasury bonds. According to the National Bank, this search for return is accompanied by some diversification of portfolios that are highly concentrated on Belgium. In its capacity as a supervisor and macro-prudential authority, the National Bank shall regularly analyse changes in investment portfolios and assess the extent to which these changes pose a threat to the financial situation of individual institutions and in a broader context for financial stability. Nevertheless, the consequences of the sovereign debt crisis must be a little cautious. In this spirit, the National Bank has informed me that, in the context of the introduction of Solvency II, rules which will enter into force at the beginning of next year, it is considering whether measures can be considered to take better account of the risk profile of some investments in the light of the level of own resources available to insurance undertakings. As far as the effects of the Greek State are concerned, the insurance companies have had a significant reduction in their exposure since 2010, so that they have now become very marginal. As a result, Greece's bankruptcy would not be such as to threaten the financial situation of these companies and would not jeopardise the guaranteed performance of insurers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u93	It is a crucial task to keep an eye on that. I'm glad to hear that the Greek danger has already passed. It is also logical that insurance companies should diversify. Belgian state bonds don't get them very far. Apart from that, diversification would be useful, but that is another problem. We must, of course, ensure that the risk is contained. Less creditworthy debtors can only be taken into account for a small part in order to avoid major accidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u94	Minister, the Intellectual Property Council has not had any members appointed since January 1, 2014. They are appointed for a renewable four-year term, according to Article 4 of the Royal Decree of July 5, 2004, establishing an Intellectual Property Council, but no new members were appointed in 2014, or 2015. For the transposition of Directive 2012/28, you also had to use the former members of the Council, who came from the Section for Copyright and Related Rights. However, the Compulsory Licensing Commission, provided for in Article XI.43 of the Code of Economic Law, consists of ten members, two of whom are appointed from among the members of the Intellectual Property Council. The Commission's task is to hear, reconcile and, if possible, give a reasoned opinion to the Minister on the merits of an application for a licence to exploit an invention covered by a patent. The Minister shall, on the basis of this notice, issue the licence. It is essential to ensure the effectiveness of any council or commission enabling interested parties to be heard. Can the Intellectual Property Council and the Compulsory Licensing Commission function effectively and validly without such appointments? When will these appointments take place? As a result of the numerous amendments to the Code of Economic Law, are there any other bodies which, unfortunately, have not been validly constituted since then?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u95	Mr President, dear colleague, the members of the Intellectual Property Council were appointed by ministerial decree of March 16, 2015, published in the Belgian Moniteur of March 27, 2015. The Council held its plenary meeting on 30 April. The members of the Compulsory Licensing Commission have not yet been appointed. To date, this has not been a problem as no application for a compulsory licence has been submitted to the government. Nevertheless, the appointment of the members of this commission can be finalized in the fall of 2015. In order to answer your third question, other bodies established by the Code of Economic Law have yet to be established. These are the following bodies: the breeder's right council mentioned in article XI.127 of the Code (renewal also planned in autumn 2015), the Strategic Committee of the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises established by article III.43 of the Code. This draft royal decree is ready and will be submitted to the Council of Ministers on 17 July.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u96	Minister, thank you for your answer. I take note of the fact that appointments are planned in the near future or in the autumn. For the proper functioning of the institutions, it is preferable for the committees and committees to be set up and to be able to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u97	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 56, by Mrs Dierick (H-5664 by Mr Klaps) and Question No 57, by Mrs Dierick (H-5713) Mrs Lalieux's 5695 will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u98	Mr President, I will speak quickly. It is actually also a very short question that has to do with the company Revisorate in our country. There is a European regulation to be transposed, for which, as always, we have a two-year period, starting on 16 June last year. So we're about halfway there now. I have a question about timing. Does the Minister foresee a timing to implement the transposition? The Regulation contains many options that can be addressed by Member States, including on the form of public oversight, Member States have some freedom. I just wanted to ask you for an update, Minister. Have you done any work on lighting these options, as they are included in the regulation? What direction do you intend to take in this respect and in particular with regard to the public supervision of company auditors?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u99	Mr President, Mr Klaps, following the financial crisis, the European Parliament and the Council have developed a reform of the audit. They have adopted a directive and a regulation for this purpose. The entry into force of both texts is scheduled for 17 June 2016. At the end of last month I received the opinion of the Supreme Economic Appeals Council on the transposition of this directive and regulation. On the basis of this opinion, we will draw up a proposal concerning the organisation of public oversight and the choices to be made in the various options. I will submit a draft law to the government in the autumn, which will then be discussed here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u100	Mr President, Minister, I will wait until the autumn with reasonable patience. At that moment, you're still well on time. The signals we receive from the sector are mainly about lighting up the options. The pure conversion is standard work. One sits with some tension looking at the final result, because it is also short notice for them to put the organization back on its feet in the new structure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u101	Mr Dedecker, you will have the floor for both questions on the same subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u102	Mr President, the second question replaces the first question, so in fact it is only one question. Mr Minister, we have just spoken about copyright and the legal exceptions to it. One of these exceptions is, for example, the possible multiplication or disclosure of a building or work of art in public space as it is located there, more commonly known as panorama freedom. In most countries this exception to copyright was introduced, but not in Belgium, nor in France. Thus, the author or architect of a building or work of art in public space and its descendants can claim compensation for the right to reproduction of photographs in Belgium until seventy years after the author's death. Anyone who puts a picture of the Atomium on his website as owner of a bed and breakfast in Belgium, for example, must pay SABAM. The European Parliament will vote tomorrow on a motion for a resolution calling into question this legal exception. Some doomthinkers think that tourists who put a photo of the Atomium on their Facebook account can be prosecuted for that if they don't pay, but that seems a bit exaggerated to me. However, the principle remains valid and there is a grey zone, because rights are actually transferred to Facebook, a commercial company that uses those photocopiers commercially. It is always about buildings and works of art in the open space. Minister, how do you evaluate the current legislation in this area in Belgium? To what extent is there active action against infringements, where photocopiers of buildings or works of art still subject to copyright are used commercially or otherwise? How many infringements have been detected in recent years? How do you stand with regard to the principle of freedom of panorama, the panoramic freedom for 3D works in public places, as has already been introduced in Spain or Germany today? What position will you take in European fora such as the European Council in the discussions of the Commission's initiatives? Do you support the harmonisation of these statutory exceptions to the copyright law, even if it requires the introduction of panorama freedom in Belgium, or do you prefer to adhere to the current Belgian rules, which do not have such exceptions? Where do you stand with regard to the notion of commercial use?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u103	You know that there is a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs of the European Parliament on the implementation of the directive. The European Commission has the right of initiative to amend EU law and will present its copyright reform by the end of 2015. My intention is to look at this together with the Minister for Digital Agenda and to follow up on it. Recital 46 of the report states that the authorisation of rightholders is required for the commercial use of works permanently present in physical public places. This recital actually repeats the current state of affairs in Belgium, in accordance with Directive 2001/29, which already provides for an exception to copyright in our country to use a work exhibited in and for a public place when the purpose of this use is not the work itself. This exception seems to be sufficiently balanced between rightholders and users. Our administration does not have figures on how to deal with copyright infringements on works located in public places. I would like to remind you that a national exception to copyright cannot go beyond what is permitted by EU law, including the three-step test. It does not seem obvious that EU law would allow everyone to work in accessible places without prior authorisation for commercial purposes under all circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u104	Thank you very much for your reply, Minister. You refer explicitly to the notion "when the purpose is not the work itself." That's a gray zone. When an owner of a bed and breakfast puts a picture of the Atomium on the website, he is supposed to put the Atomium on it himself. That doesn't happen to be in that picture. It's about the monument. Of course, European harmonisation on copyright must be possible, and I hope that this panorama freedom will be introduced everywhere. It is really awesome that every building or work of art should be checked if there are any rights to it, every time one takes a picture of it. This is economically unworkable and hampers any initiative. At the risk of being worn out for socialist, I would argue in favour of giving some substance to the notion of public space.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u105	Mr President, the right to quote is another exception to copyright. For example, anyone who wishes to quote from a work in the context of scientific research can do so without the author's consent and without the author having to be compensated for it. Of course, this cannot be done at all costs. There are a number of conditions attached to this in order to prevent abuse. Thus, Article XI.190, 6°, 7° and 8° of the Code of Economic Law provides that the source must be clearly represented, inter alia, with the author's name. There isn't much clarity about the length of the quote. It is the intention of the quoting author to consider it himself. The normal operation of the work must not be made impossible, in accordance with the three-step rule to which you have already referred. From academic circles I was informed that certain authors or their right holders interpret the right to quote very restrictively. For example, a fee must be paid for the use of, for example, photographic material in publications in the arts sciences. I don't know that scientific branch very well. I'm from science, but you might know it better. The publications in the arts sciences can therefore be quite expensive. It cannot, of course, be the intention of such a restrictive interpretation to put a brake on the quality of scientific research. What is the scope of the right to quote with regard to the publication of photographs and works of visual art, in particular in the context of scientific research? Can the aforementioned restrictive interpretation be regarded as legal?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a quote must meet four requirements. Firstly, the scope of the quotation must remain within the limits of fair professional practice and the intended purpose. Short quotes from a work are permitted. The Belgian case-law accepts that a very short work takes over the whole text in its entirety. An integral take-over of photocopiers is also possible if the other conditions are met. The caselaw does not accept that a whole series of works are systematically reproduced, even if they are short. Secondly, the quotation must be made for specific purposes, such as polemics, criticism, education or scientific research. Quoteing for other purposes, e.g. publishing for a wide audience of a competitive magazine, is not possible. Thirdly, the photo taken must be further included in a personal statement in which the quote is commented on, criticised or at least explained by its own introduction. Fourthly, the source must be mentioned, as well as the name of the quoted author, unless this is not possible. Finally, whether or not a quote is legal will always depend on the concrete facts, which must be assessed in accordance with the conditions I have just reviewed, so that no general answer can be given.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u107	Minister, you say that you cannot give a general answer, but I thought this was a pretty clear statement. Indeed, it cannot be the intention to systematically reproduce a whole series of works. In the context of an explanatory statement and criticism, of course, it is possible. I would suggest that you also post the clarification you just gave on the website of the FPS Economy. I think the explanation can be better there. For example, there is no mention of the source of the information on the right to quote. There is also no information about a fee. I think there's still some work to be done. This applies in general, by the way. You'd better take care of that website. It is very outdated in a number of areas. For example, it refers to the old copyright law and not to the Code of Economic Law, which was published more than a year ago. Most of them have been in force since January. It would therefore be interesting to update the website, including the case law of the European Court of Justice on a number of exceptions. This would bring clarity to many, at least as enlightening as your explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic223x.u108	Thank you. Thanks for the suggestion.
