ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic200x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, you may have just over a month ago heard the criticism of the privacy committee that staff of the public services, including the police, have too easy access to the national register and do not always use it to carry out the tasks entrusted to them. There was a very striking example of a radio quiz in which one asked about the age of a well-known person, after which one saw that the number of searches in the national register suddenly showed a very strong peak on data from that person. One can seriously doubt the legality of these perceptions. That is unacceptable and you have reacted very quickly, but I do have a number of questions. Firstly, what are you going to do about this problem of illegal access to the national register? Secondly, the demand for medical data by hospitals must be able to be very active, without prior application, because people's lives are at stake. In order to provide any guarantee of privacy there, applicants for another service, even in the same hospital, must provide a valid reason that can be verified afterwards. You may remember the case of the nurse who looked up Mr Leterme's data at the time. That was wrong at the time, but it was logged and when the reason proved unacceptable, she was seriously attacked. This seems to me to be the case with the national register to a limited extent, but with vague definitions. Those who log on to the website today mydossier.rrn.fgov.be can see the logs. Then you can see for example:.. Interrogation on N.N. of certain legal Or a consultation by the KSZ which will then be encoded as a decoded response consultation. I don't know who here in the room has any idea what those logs mean, but I certainly don't know. I do not suspect you either, and the ordinary citizen has not been helped by that either. How do you evaluate today the logs of access to the national register and other sources, the reason given for consultation and transparency to citizens? What steps can you take to improve that? Last question. It is very important that personal data should have the power of the citizen, not only in terms of transparency but also in terms of use. I would like to insist on some sort of simple, clear privacy portal or personal data portal, where citizens can see who uses their data and can give their own consent, refuse or withdraw for use of the data. This could mean serious administrative simplification while raising awareness and security. Let me give you an example. If one gets the question via notification on the smartphone whether a shopping chain where one has a customer card can consult the data once one has moved, then one can exercise control and answer yes or no. At that point, there is still complete control of whether or not to respond positively to that question. Moreover, this can generate revenue for the State Registry, unless one would make massive use of other identification systems such as Google or Apple. Mr Secretary of State, to what extent are you open to such a portal or dashboard with the possibility of whether or not to be paid for by public and private authorities with a central role for citizens in consent? What steps have already been taken or will you take?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic200x.u2	Mr President, Mr Dedecker, the national register belongs to the competence of my colleague, the Minister for Security and the Interior, Mr Jan Jambon. I will therefore confine myself to answering your question to the extent that it has points of contact with the protection of personal data. As Secretary of State, I'm in charge of a lot of things, but I have to keep going into someone else's territory. In fact, this brings me to many ministers. I like doing this because I'm someone who likes working together. I've been to the scouts. Access to the State Register is today limited to the entities listed in the Law of 8 August 1983, mainly public authorities. I will, in consultation with my colleague, the Minister of the Interior, make an evaluation of the logins of the national register. I will also look into how we can achieve greater transparency for citizens in relation to the reason for these consultations. A partial aspect of your question, in particular public and private operators' access to the data of the State Registry, presupposes, first and foremost, an extension of access to the private sector. I'm open to that. I would like to start the debate on this. If this enlargement is to take place, it must be accompanied by the necessary safeguards of privacy for citizens. The allocation of a central role to the citizen, as you propose, presupposes a different fundamental change in the system. Today it is the case that the control of the protection of the data contained in the national register is in the hands of the Sectoral Committee of the National Registry set up in the privacy committee. Access to the State Register shall be authorised by this Sectoral Committee. That authorisation shall be accompanied by a rigorous verification of the compliance of the application with the privacy law, in particular whether the objectives for the use of the data are sufficiently clearly formulated and legitimate, and whether their use does not go beyond what is strictly necessary. In fact, this system offers a special guarantee of protection of privacy which citizens can only and on the spot, for example at a shop's register, but which is difficult to obtain themselves. This also requires a thorough reflection on the notion of free and informed consent of citizens, which is central to data protection law. Another thing is the data portal, which you mentioned, which should create greater transparency for citizens about the data collected and how it is used. In this context, I have already stated that I am in favour of the greatest possible transparency for citizens. That's how I talked about an annual privacy bill. It is true that the citizen must be placed more at the heart of the management of his data, but this must not be accompanied by a reduction in the level of protection of his data.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic200x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, of course you have cross-sectional competence. You will be responsible for the privacy of all your colleagues. From that privacy reflex I ask my questions about that to you. Questions will follow, including on other policy areas of your fellow Members. I am certainly pleased with the evaluation you will make on the login of the national register. I believe that we can take steps forward in this area. I am also pleased that you are open to extending access to the national register to the private sector, so that a debate can be held on this subject, with the necessary guarantees of privacy, of course. From this concern I ask you my questions. I believe that we are on the same lines, namely that these safeguards are essential. I believe that today there is the possibility of combining protection in the sectoral committee with the decision-making power that should lie with the citizens. One might also ask, when citizens submit their data in order to obtain a customer card in a store or to create an account on any platform, what additional data the national register contains. I mean that access to the national register can also be made gradual, for example by the fact that only the address data can be requested, i.e. the data that one fills in by default or gives up as a free, informed citizen. There is therefore a possibility to build in safeguards and to provide additional support from the sectoral committees.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic200x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, I suspect that it sounded to you as a liberal and so-called privacy watchdog last Thursday as music that the far too far-reaching 2013 data retention law was destroyed by the Constitutional Court on 11 June. Of course, that's double. A destruction goes very far and the Constitutional Court was also very far in the judgment. Personally, I believe that a balance is possible. I believe that it should always be possible to obtain certain information in the context of an investigation. In my view, the law went far too far in terms of access to certain data and obligations for hotspot providers to provide for very complex and expensive logging systems. Mr Secretary of State, how do you proceed? What initiatives will you take in cooperation with your party partner responsible for telecoms and your colleague responsible for justice? Operators shall, in any event, keep the information necessary for their own operation and invoicing. A general framework is needed for our investigation services. What's in your tube? How will you reconcile that investigation services can continue to carry out their work and respect the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens? How will you protect our privacy?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic200x.u5	Last Thursday 18 June 2015, the Constitutional Court followed the reasoning of the Court of Justice of the European Union. It destroyed the well-known data retention law. As I stated earlier in the Chamber, I was waiting for that ruling from the Constitutional Court to take further steps. Together with my colleague for Justice, Mr Geens, and my colleague for Digital Agenda, Mr De Croo, we are now analysing the relevant judgment and the legal and practical consequences of the destruction. Following that analysis, solutions will of course be examined and, where appropriate, a new legislative project will be considered in consultation with the two other Ministers Geens and De Croo. I will, however, be very careful to ensure that any initiatives respect privacy and are consistent with the observations of the Court of Justice of the European Union and its own Constitutional Court. Mr Dedecker, I am beginning to assume the role of watchdog. The exceptions to fundamental rights, in particular respect for private and family life or data protection, must always comply with the principles of necessity and proportionality. In addition, adequate guarantees should be provided against misuse of the data collected, such as data security and access. In this respect, too, I have made the necessary contacts with my fellow Members from the Benelux countries. We will discuss and test each other's proposals so that we can learn from each other. However, I would like to point out that the judgment is not without consequences for other cases which are being negotiated in the government and which are also based on a system of data collection and retention. I pointed out to my colleague, Mr Jambon, a few months ago that when a PNR system is switched to a non-European system and bilaterally negotiated between countries, privacy legislation will also have to be taken into account. It therefore seems to me, even in the context of a number of statements already made here in the Chamber and also in Europe, that it is still better to build a European system of data-PNR than to build up national or bilateral systems. Therefore, that data retention line also has implications for such data collection and data processing. The Constitutional Court has sent a very clear signal that every law relating to security must ensure that there is a proper balance between privacy and security. We must not regard all citizens as suspects, we must restrict privacy-intrusive powers and respect fundamental rights. We must ensure that the data are kept in proportion, while at the same time protecting the rights and freedoms of citizens. Moreover, I am in favour of such measures being evaluated in good time. Measures that restrict privacy in favour of other rights and obligations, such as security, must always be temporary and always evaluated on time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic200x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, I can certainly agree with that last sentence. That seems obvious to me. I assume that the analysis of the judgment will go very quickly, as it simply refers to the judgment of the European Court, which is now known for almost a year. I asked you about this when you made your policy statement, but you did not want to anticipate it, even though we already knew what it was going to be. I was actually expecting you to be a little further on today and that you could give us more information. You will consult with the Benelux. There will be no new law on data retention in the Netherlands. We already know the position of the Netherlands. So I wouldn't cling to that. I think it is best for us to put our own house in order and set up our own proportional custody. You yourself say that proportional detention is necessary, and I welcome your implicit recognition that it was not there in the previous legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic200x.u7	You said, Mr Secretary of State, that you also want to transform the privacy committee into a regulator by analogy with the Netherlands where fines can be imposed post facto. Privacy is becoming an increasingly topical theme. I've been here for over ten years. I have never known this issue more topical than in this government. I'm sure this has something to do with you. I would be happy to go along with that from the opposition. We think it's a good signal that privacy is getting higher on the political agenda. I had asked questions earlier about the violation of privacy by Facebook. You told us you were expecting a recommendation report from the privacy committee by 13 May. Mr Secretary of State, what is the view of the privacy committee on this bill? They agree to act as a regulator as well. What is the current state of affairs regarding Facebook? How will the checks post factum be done by the privacy committee? Will the framework be extended and a budget foreseen for this? What criteria will be used to determine the amount of the fine?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic200x.u8	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the European Ministers of Justice have agreed on a new European framework for the protection of personal data. As a result, regulations dating back more than 20 years are updated. From now on, the right to forget is guaranteed – and that's very good. We are returning to a regime that was much less intrusive for Internet users. Moreover, as a result of this Europe Agreement, the power of national data protection authorities is strengthened with a view to better applying the rules on privacy. If I believe your statements, you would intend to introduce a bill this fall so that the Privacy Commission itself will impose fines in the event of non-compliance with the new European framework. As my colleague has said, the aim is also to make it a regulator. I would like to remind you that the Commission has been set up by Parliament and therefore depends on the legislative power. It therefore seems paradoxical to me that it can impose sanctions. Mr Secretary of State, if you continue to do so, how will the Commission be able to assume its new tasks? Are you planning to increase the resources and staff? How can we avoid, and most importantly, that the Privacy Commission should not be both a judge and a party in the cases that it will have to examine, especially in the light of its opinions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic200x.u9	Mr President, at the recent European Council of Justice and Home Affairs on 15 June, as I have just explained, an agreement was reached on the draft privacy regulation, which creates a renewed and strengthened regulatory framework for data protection, after three and a half years of negotiations. I have followed the negotiations closely. During my previous report, I announced that an important part of the modernisation obviously also concerns the functioning of the supervisory authorities. In any case, the Regulation will give them new powers which will involve stricter monitoring of the application of the privacy rules, both in terms of the Regulation and in terms of national legislation. As you know, a regulation applies in all Member States from the day it enters into force. I've noticed that the awareness of privacy is increasing enormously. I have just said that this has not escaped my fellow Members in the European Council, as the Austrian Minister stressed in his statement. That goes very closely together with the digitisation of our society. It is therefore clear that it is not good to wait for Europe to act legislatively. I will do that, for example, by giving our privacy committee more power. The direction of the European Union is clear. I will therefore launch the reform of the Privacy Commission, particularly with regard to administrative sanctions. At the budgetary level, we must also have a financial plan, but I am not anticipating it. At the appropriate time, I will come back to this committee to introduce the bill. I just spoke to the chairman of the privacy committee and asked him to provide me with information so that we can start preparing this bill. What is clear is that the Privacy Commission will have to position itself strongly against big social media. Speaking of social media, you have just been able to take note of the privacy committee's recommendation to Facebook. She demands full transparency about the use of cookies on the social network. With these cookies, Facebook can also track the surfing behaviour of people who are not members of Facebook. This was also demonstrated by a scientific study by ICRI published in February. On the basis of these recommendations, the Privacy Commission has also subpoenaed Facebook United States and Facebook Ireland in interim proceedings. The Brussels Civil Court decided in interim proceedings last Thursday that the pleas in the trial will take place on 21 September 2015. Facebook must also follow the rules of the game. As mentioned earlier, if Facebook does not want to comply with the law, then the privacy committee can only take legal action.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic200x.u10	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. I ask the question about funding because the privacy committee in our country is actually funded through donation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic200x.u11	Yes, through Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic200x.u12	That is why it is extremely important for us to know how this should be organised in the light of Parliament's annual budget. I understand that, on the one hand, additional tasks are rightly assigned through an EU regulation and new draft laws, but, on the other hand, it is essential for a Member of Parliament to know how funding will be provided for a rather specific situation such as that in this house.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic200x.u13	Mr President, Secretary of State, I will not repeat what my colleague, David Geerts, has just said. However, there is still a provision in the Parliament's budget. Attention should therefore be paid to the issue. As far as administrative strengthening is concerned, it is true that independence exists. It is true that we must, at times, take a strong position in relation to major social media. I therefore welcome your initiative and ask you not to forget the existing procedures. If it is decided to go through the judicial procedure – this has existed since the Commission denounces the facts to the prosecutor's office – this must be done with respect for the separation of powers. The Commission should not be transformed into an administrative sanction body similar to the judicial body. I therefore invite you to exercise caution and consult the Commission. Finally, let me tell you, in the form of an endade, to pay attention to the fact, on the occasion of your bill, that it seems to be part of a negotiation between Europe and the United States on a major treaty, namely the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP). I feel that any restrictions on a large media such as Facebook could call for the use of the arbitration clause, which could hurt Belgium very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic200x.u14	I won't go ice in one night. I do not want to wait for the regulation to come into force, because it takes too long. I am well aware that the privacy committee is a body which depends on Parliament and which receives resources from Parliament. It goes without saying that I will fully involve Parliament in the preparation of this draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic200x.u15	Mr Secretary of State, on the previous item on the agenda we discussed the use of legitimate data, which may raise questions afterwards. Apart from the fact that I consider the use of socio-economic data and data on security by the Realo website to be discriminatory, I believe that we should be careful what data are provided with, without, however, hindering commercial activities. If the catalogue lists which residential districts are more sensitive to criminal activities, that is a downside of the medal. As far as the opt-in/opt-out procedure is concerned, I believe that making data available is an essential element. I read in the interview and heard on the radio that one should effectively indicate that one should not want a house on that website or that an interior is displayed. In the margin of this, an interesting article about the Facebook apps said that they are recognizable, that one can be tagged more and more and that the use of that data takes a high flight. I will talk about this in my next question. I have read your reaction in the press and that of your colleague for the Digital Agenda. What is the government's view on releasing nationality, socio-economic and other data for commercial purposes? What is the vision of the right to refusal that Google Maps uses? Are conditions of use being worked out? I believe that it is also necessary to take into account the conditions of use used in the preparation of these data.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic200x.u16	Mr Geerts, like you, I have read through the press about the launch of this new immosite, which also creates a social profile of their neighbourhood for potential buyers. For me, that wasn't entirely new. There have been social profiles of residential neighborhoods for decades, and they have been used. It is not because these data are now suddenly on a website, that in the past no public data were used to create social profiles of neighbourhoods. Just so we're clear, I'm not opposed to using open data at all. On the contrary, I am explicitly in favour of the digital economy and open data play an important role in this. I would contradict myself, because until recently I was ships of Digital Affairs in Ostend and there I have taken extensive initiatives to stimulate open data. Open data is the future, because examples at home and abroad learn that by opening datasets, although always completely anonymized, one can give an important boost to the creative and digital sector. With the use of, for example, government datasets, which may contain personal data, privacy legislation must of course always be respected. Given the noise that has arisen around the website, I have asked the privacy committee for an opinion. I'm not questioning the website, but I'm simply asking for advice, because data can't be used just like that, especially if they contain personal data, and because there was a press report that photos of the neighbors' interiors were used. One can literally even look inside certain houses, even if they are not for sale. Before that, photocopiers were used that were posted on another immosite during a previous sale, but they have not been on it for a long time. Meanwhile, through social media, I have received confirmation from the founders of the website that I am right and that the photographs on the website are indeed in breach of privacy law. I did not even have to wait for the advice of the privacy committee. The owners of the Realo website have informed me via Twitter and an explanation on Facebook............................................................................................................. So I await the advice of the privacy committee further. I will not comment on the fact that the objective and working methods of this website could lead to discrimination or segregation. I do have a horizontal competence, as Mr Dedecker says, but my colleague, Elke Sleurs, also has powers as Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities. It must shed light on this, as must the Centre for Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic200x.u17	Mr Secretary of State, certainly the last element was important, namely that your colleague still has powers. The essential question is opt-in or opt-out. Now it has to be specifically said that one does not want photos or data on that website. I think that one day we will come to the fact that specific consent will have to be given. I think that this should be taken into account in commercial logic. People aren't just inclined to bring out personal data. I shall come back to this in my next question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic200x.u18	Mr President, Secretary of State, the photo recognition app is apparently new advanced software on Facebook Moments, tagging people who are recognized on photocopiers, after which the photocopiers can be shared. We can perhaps both talk about being tagged with a microphone in our hand while we are singing or with a glass of beer in our hand. Such photos are then suddenly distributed. Today I was tagged at a serious item in Het Nieuwsblad, where a different title emerged. In itself that is nice, but sometimes it can also be very ambiting, to say it in our local language, when another title or location is attributed to a photo. That software is not currently being used in our country, but it will be, because already photos are taken and tagged, making the rest of the world see what you're doing. We have been able to read the advice of professors of iMinds regarding use, possible abuse and the violation of privacy rules. The privacy committee has also incorporated that advice in a few paragraphs dedicated to those possible threats to privacy. Mr Secretary of State, I have the following specific questions. Facebook Moments and Google Photos are not yet applicable in Belgium or in Europe. Since you are in contact with them, do you have any idea if there are plans to install that app in our country? What is the opinion of the privacy committee on possible violations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic200x.u19	Mr President, Mr Geerts, you ask me first of all what the plans are for Facebook and whether they want to apply the new Facebook Moments application in Belgium in the foreseeable future. It's hard for me to look into the glass ball of Facebook. Here's what I'm gonna find out. Firstly, the Irish privacy committee, which was fairly patronising here by Mr Dedecker, expressed doubts about the compatibility of this application with the privacy rules in force in Europe. Secondly, Richard Allan, policy manager at Facebook, explicitly accepts the European requirements imposed, I quote: "Regulators have told us we have to offer an opt-in choice to people to do this." We don't have an opt-in mechanism so it is turned off until we develop one . modify the name and address of the holder of the authorisation. That is why the app is and will not be made available by Facebook to European users, I note. Thirdly, the European group of the privacy committee, the G-29, pointed out in an opinion in 2012 the dangers of facial recognition on social media and issued a number of recommendations in this respect. For example, those responsible for processing should frame the use of facial recognition technology with a number of specific safeguards for the protection of personal data, in particular biometric data. There may be concerns about the legality of the processing, the extent to which persons recognised and tagged may or may not have given their consent, and there may also be risks associated with the consequences of any data leaks. I will therefore ask our privacy committee to keep me informed of the discussions that will take place within the G-29 and with the Irish colleague supervisor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic200x.u20	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply.
