ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u2	The discussion of the Government's statement is resumed. The discussion of the government statement is resumed. I call Mr Denis Ducarme. Mr Denis Ducrame has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u3	Mr. President, Prime Minister, Ministers, your government statement yesterday morning was resolutely focused on action, public interest and dialogue. You stressed the importance of consultation and the explanations to be provided. Your statement was also determined. This majority is at work to bring our country the reforms it needs. You're right, Mrs. Onkelinx. The moment is historic in more than one way. Of course, you have not been tender; you are not often tender. However, when I hear the leader of the Socialist Group begin her speech by saying, "It's good to lower the burden on businesses, your measures for the self-employed are good", I say bravo! These reforms that this country needs are naturally all job-oriented, to support our SMEs – which account for 90% of our economic fabric –, to reward work better, to improve purchasing power, to show solidarity with the weakest and to guarantee the safety of Belgians. It is necessary for our country that these reforms be carried out in terms of pensions or index to restore our competitiveness and safeguard our social security. These demands, these needs, we have to meet them. Several encouraging signals have come to welcome the action that has been carried out by our majority for the past year: the Plan Bureau, the OECD, the European Commission, the IMF and, very recently, IRES (UCL) have provided interesting prospects for our country in terms of job creation, employment rates, falling unemployment, growth, not to mention the need to control public finances. The Prime Minister has reminded us that this can make us optimistic but not naive. So this majority will remain pragmatic, humble in the face of international gravity in particular, of our debt rate and the conservatism that our country still suffers, but, as the Prime Minister pointed out yesterday, the reforms implemented place us on the right path. On the right socio-economic path first. The right path is better to encourage job creation, it is to strengthen competitiveness, to enable our businesses and our self-employed people to hire more easily. This majority has repeated it a lot, it acts in the direction of its absolute priority which is and which remains employment. Everyone knows this here, but we have to repeat it, create jobs, it is not a question of improving statistics, it is above all to allow women, men to emancipate themselves. For them, finding or finding a job is, of course, supporting the family, but for many, it is reviving a sense of dignity. Creating employment means rebooting the social elevator. For many - we are aware - this elevator has been stuck in the basement for too long. This majority wants to participate in unlocking it. As we said, there are positive signals. For its part, the Planning Office is planning to create some 200,000 jobs. We'll see. This majority will in any case do its best. But the main obstacle to job creation is, of course, the burden. This is why the tax shift of a minimum size of almost $7.3 billion by 2018 aims to reduce employer contributions from 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u4	Mr Ducarme, you are constantly referring to this figure of more than 7 billion regarding the tax shift. Can I ask you if you have made the addition of what the index jump represents as a reduction on the wage bill, as a reduction on the replacement income represented by the index jump on replacement income (pensions, allowances) with, in addition, the increase in taxes on consumption, such as VAT on electricity, excises on diesel (6 Belgians out of 10 drive with a diesel car) and a whole series of other taxes (sodas and Cie)? Have you added all these elements that have a negative impact on household disposable income? Can you tell me what figure you get and put this in parallel, on the tax reduction side for natural persons, for households, with the figure that Belgians can expect in terms of tax reduction? Let's put the wellness envelope aside. It is not a new policy and we have had a debate on 60% / 100 per cent. We maintain that it was under the former government that it was decided to hand them over to 100%, not to mention all the information that Mrs. Onkelinx gave you. I come back to my fundamental question. Did you make this addition of the negative effect on household disposable income, when, at the index jump and the impact of index jump, all taxes on consumption are added? Did you do this calculation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u5	First of all, excuse me for not setting aside what is essential for us! We will not put, as part of this government's effort, to give you this pleasure, the well-being envelope aside.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u6	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u7	You say, "Let's put aside the wellness envelope." No, but without a joke, it's not a new policy!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u8	I'm talking about new policies!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u9	There is no question, because we are doing better than you in this matter, of setting aside what would be right for you!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u10	Mr Ducrame, Mrs Onkelinx reminded you that we owe the welfare envelope to the Socialists! So we have no lesson to learn from this point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u11	We owe it to the socialists at 60%!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u12	I'm talking about new policies. With regard to these policies, index jumps on wages, index jumps on replacement incomes, consumption taxes represent 6.5 billion, which are taken from the pockets of workers and households. On the other hand, you promise, by 2019, a reduction of the tax on natural persons of the order of 3.2 billion. This means that you take people twice as much as you claim to give them by a tax reduction by 2019! I add that, because you have to compensate for an unexpected budget hole of $1 billion in 2015, you immediately knock people off with index jumps and consumer taxes to give them a lower tax cut of half. Obviously, you didn't do this calculation, but I'll give it to you! I give it to you on the basis of the powerpoint that was presented to the press on Saturday. These aren't my own calculations. Just go and read your own data! As for the well-being envelope, fortunately it exists because it will help to mitigate some of the index jumps that are of unprecedented brutality and that reflect your ideological vision of the economy. You think it is by reducing wages, impoverishing workers that you will be able to create the conditions for economic prosperity. It's ideology! All economists tell you that there is no mechanical link between a wage reduction through index jump and job creation. So where does that money go? In the increase of the profits of the companies and in the increase of the dividends! Your entire policy, which is ideological in nature, has the effect of impoverishing the workers and enriching the shareholders. That's what you do with the index jump! I repeat, you take 6.5 billion immediately in people's pocket and you're going to give them 3.2 billion by 2019. Here's your tax shift, here's your so-called tax reform!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u13	We will not agree, that's for sure! What kills employment in our country, which prevents us from creating new jobs, is our lack of competitiveness. If we have planned a single index jump, which has not yet arrived, it is good to make our businesses competitive. Besides, you have the nerve to tell us that we are going to lower wages. I will give you, if I may, figures in terms of wage increases, mainly targeted at low and medium incomes. Some socialists have told me that we are doing their work and that we are raising the lows and the means of wages. It's not according to what your party president said in 2009, no, it's right now, and you know it. You're not fair. You know that the majority of the effort will be used for low wages and will already be effective on 1 January 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u14	Mr Ducarme, on the question of the timetable, you are talking about 1 January 2016. When will the sum of one hundred euros be reached? Here I forget the question of the expenses that would have to be reduced in order to reach those hundred euros. I would like to know when you think that this EUR 100 increase will be achieved. Increasingly, we hear that projects are being postponed. Now it's postponed to 2019 and, if we talk about it in six months, it'll be in 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u15	A subtlety may have eluded you about what the tax shift brings for the lows and the income means, namely that we wanted to be extremely supportive of the lows and the income means in this matter. It is clear that the lower the incomes, the higher they will be. Thus, for the lowest income, you will have an increase by 2019 that will amount to more than 140 euros, with for low wages, at least 80 euros effective on 1 January 2016, thanks to the tax shift 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u16	I would like to make it clear to Mr Laaouej that the measures for purchasing power amount to more than EUR 4 billion. This appears very clearly on the tables. I understand that you consider that the "well-being" envelope is not part of the purchasing power, but it is more than €4 billion in purchasing power that is delivered in the strategy implemented. For taxes on consumption, it is half, less than 2 billion euros! This means that there is clearly a positive effect, especially for low and medium wages. In addition, there may be one element, which for you does not matter much, but there is a big difference between the reduction in taxes on labour (these are fixed, we cannot escape it; it is the law that applies) and the choices to be made in terms of consumption. One can decide, for example, to go gradually towards gasoline and not diesel, to give up for public health reasons to smoke a lot, to drink a lot of vodka or whiskey. The fundamental difference is free choice, but for you, free choice is not very important!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u17	Mr. Chairman, allow me to remind the Prime Minister that no one is free to choose the index jump. Everyone's hit. Prime Minister, you don't talk about it anymore; no one has a choice, neither does the pensioner. I come back to the question of the timetable, Mr. Ducrame. I understand your answer. You say subtly that in 2019, it will be 140, 170 euros depending on the income. You say that as of 1 January 2016, it will be 80 euros. For who? For the lowest income?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u18	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u19	Not for the average income then but only for the lowest income.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u20	That's what I just said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u21	My choice – and I thought it was the government's – is to follow the document that the government gave us on July 23. In this document it is written: "One more euro per month for low and middle income as early as 2016". It was your press conference. These are your slides. Now, here Mr.Ducarme tells us that it is not for 2016 but for 2019, that it is not one hundred euros but eighty, that it is not for the average income but for the low income. At your press conference in July, you promised a hundred euros a month as early as 2016 for low and medium incomes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u22	You're in bad faith, Mr. Nollet!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u23	Mr Nollet, I simply point out that the proposal made by the government is to go beyond a hundred euros for low wages, to reach 140 euros. For your part, you look at the amount of one hundred euros while for low wages, the increase will reach 140 euros per month. Is this not a positive step, Mr Nollet?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u24	Mr President, I can see the parliamentary game, the rhetorical game that Mr Nollet is playing. [[Tumult on the benches of Ecolo-Groen]] You are not even able to listen to the answer to the question you are asking, Mr Nollet! In July, we made a commitment to increase the purchasing power of lows and wage-earnings by EUR 100 per month in the context of the definition of envelopes. Today, we have taken the decisions to make this commitment operational. The relevant legal texts are being analysed and finalized before being forwarded to the Council of State and Parliament. We will therefore be working, from 2016 until the end of the legislature, to meet the objective that is being discussed. You play on an ambiguous formulation. But, in reality, the measures taken go further than those announced in July. In other words, we did more and better than we expected. Indeed, more than half of the people who work and pay taxes will receive at least a hundred euros extra per month, equivalent to a thirteenth month. Half will be achieved in 2016 since an employee who receives less than 1,500 euros per month will see his purchasing power increased by 83 euros per month. These are the most vulnerable people who need the greatest support.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u25	The government's promises are strangely similar to the promises of the MR. The latter had promised not to touch the index jump, not to increase the VAT on electricity and not to raise the legal retirement age. Our fellow citizens are gathering the three measures in full shape. These are the promises of the government. They are no better than your electoral promises, that is, not much. When I hear Mr.Prime Minister, I have a better understanding of the government's budgetary problems and I understand better why he's been peddling in the sauerkraut from the beginning. He explained to us earlier that the increase in taxes on consumption, supposed to compensate for the drop in taxes on labour, will encourage people to change their behaviour and that this is even the objective. This is therefore not a structural recipe. A reduction in structural revenue is therefore offset by measures that are not. There is a better understanding of how the government sometimes finds itself with budget gaps that exceed the billion. Good luck, Mrs. Wilmès! You're not helped by your Prime Minister. Another element, the index jump was the great forgotten of your speech. You tried to tell us that you had nothing to hide and that you would be of absolute clarity, of great transparency. Except you didn't mention the index jump. You can tell what you want, but index jump represents a loss of $2.5 billion on payroll while it also represents a loss of $1.2 billion on replacement income. My question is not answered when I add up this loss of disposable income in addition to the loss of disposable income from consumer taxes and I show that you only offset it for half by a reduction in taxes. I repeat, we have no lesson to learn about the "well-being" envelope, which remains a socialist achievement. This is not a new policy. It is a policy of previous governments thanks to the Socialist Party! It was under the Di Rupo government that we reduced it to 100%. No buns, not with us!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u26	Prime Minister, in July, I can still hear you in this rostrum telling us that the hundred euros were for everyone right away. Today, what you're telling us is that it's not for everyone anymore, it's for one in two workers, it's for 2019 and it's not a hundred euros anymore because it's forty or eighty euros. The gap is great in three months! If we continue, in three months, this measure will affect ten people who will receive ten euros in 2100!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u27	Mr Ducrame or Mr Michel, I no longer know who I should talk to because Mr Ducrame has fairly continuous air support.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u28	To Mr. Ducarme.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u29	Mr Ducrame, these hundred euros, it is above all a smokescreen – not everyone is going to receive a hundred euros – to hide the mass of austerity measures that will affect the entire population. There is a small increase in salary pocket but a contrario will have to pay a much larger set of expenses. I am thinking of all indirect taxes on consumption, etc., but we must also take into account the announced destruction of public services. The destruction of public services, the destruction of social security, is also worth it! There is a shortage of €3 billion in health care. Who's going to pay those 3 billion euros? They're the sick! You say we can choose not to smoke. Yet your party has supported cigar lobbies at certain times. You can choose not to run on diesel. But a tax policy has favoured diesel for years. All of a sudden, it changes. We don't know why. One day, people have to buy a diesel car, one day, a gasoline car. We may also choose not to light at home, not to have electricity. I don't know if we can really choose him. Can we choose to be sick, to be a pensioner, to lose our job? Can one choose not to be able to replace his father who works in the public services because of the decline in employment in the public services? Can we choose all this? On the other hand, your calculations do not take into account a fundamental element. In fact, when you give gifts to the bosses in the form of reductions in social security contributions, you have to have someone pay them. There can be no balance because we have to finance a big gift to the bosses, to the tune of 2 billion euros. Let us leave aside the question of gifts to the bosses, I would especially like to know the very philosophy of this tax shift. The philosophy of the tax shift is to lower the tax on natural persons in order to increase taxes on consumption. Why this tax shift? The tax on natural persons is progressive, so it is just tax. It is true that Didier Reynders had reduced progressivity a little a few years ago, but overall, it can be said that it is a progressive tax that guarantees tax justice. It is being reduced; its revenues are being reduced to increase the revenues of an unfair tax on consumption, of which Piketty says they are 19th-century taxes. What is the point of doing this? Why reduce progressive taxes to increase taxes that are much less fair?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u30	Mr President, I would like to respond to a statement by Mr Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u31	That's not supposed to happen, but okay. You should actually address Mr Ducarme.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u32	Then I turn to Mr Ducarme. It has just been noted that there is no mention of the index jump. However, the index jump has been discussed in Parliament for hours, day and night. However, that is just a remark in the margin. Basically, I am surprised that you are bringing that up, Mr Laaouej. In fact, the previous government made an index jump through the back door. Indeed, the reduction of VAT on electricity was intended to slow down indexation. The National Bank of Belgium calculated that it represented 0.4% of purchasing power. If you are talking about the index jump, you will have to sketch the overall picture and mention everything. In return for the current index jump, we have increased professional costs. More than 300 million euros were added to the welfare envelope in 2015-2016 compared to the previous government. The National Bank now says that the impact on purchasing power is exactly the same as in the previous period, in particular 0.4%. It is true, therefore, that there has been an intervention in the index, and that is indeed not very nice for everyone, but during the previous reign exactly the same intervention took place, albeit through the back door and without it being discussed in Parliament day and night.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u33	Mr. Beke, for whom I have a great deal of respect, translates the state of the CD&V today: it is better to be guilty than imputable! I am sorry for you, but the reduction of VAT on electricity was first of all a measure of purchasing power. It was intended to give EUR 700 million to our citizens who need it so much, and it was also a way to reduce their energy bills. In fact, Electrabel did not fail to send a letter to the citizens indicating that, because of the government's measure, their electricity bill would increase by 1 September. It was a measure of purchasing power whatever you could say. In this regard, Prime Minister, I find it indecent to explain that people only have to change their behaviour when they increase consumer taxes. Will they stop enlightening themselves? Will they stop heating up? Do you think they have a choice? What a morgue! What disrespect for those in need! Believe me, people who see their energy bill increase are people who, when their income does not allow them to increase their end of the month, feel it hard. And that's what you're sending them as a message: "It's not that bad, you can change your behavior!" This reminds me that I was once confronted, in a negotiation, with a liberal technician. I won't mention his name. He's pretty well known and still political. He proposed a tax on domestic coal. But I told him that domestic coal was used by the most precarious households. "But it doesn't matter if they're cold in winter, they just have to wear sweaters." That's how you see our fellow citizens! This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u34	Indecency, disrespect, caricature! It seemed to me that the PS wanted to be constructive. That's what I heard. I had heard a number of statements made by Mr Laaouej, who was again in the caricature. No, we don't use these terms in relation to you. We don't do caricature. We do not share your theses, but we never approach the insult as you do by indicating that we would be indecent, disrespectful! Again, you slip into the caricature. You're hurting yourself, Mr. Laaouej! People are tired of a policy that uses aggressiveness that approaches insult. Can we debate calmly, with respect, without sending such words to each other. They don't belong anymore. People have had enough. I'm going to tell you: we're also beginning to have enough on the benches of the majority. You were talking... [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u35	Yes, yes. That's enough! In one year, all you've spent on us is enough! We're asking you for some respect. If Mrs Onkelinx has a minute, I would like to answer a few points. You're talking about VAT on electricity. Mr. Beke responded in part on this subject. You have still read this Test-Achats survey and you know that we are talking about an increase of 100 euros a year. We are talking about an increase on low incomes of 140 euros. It is clear that all the measures that we are taking to support low incomes, to support people who are suffering, to support those who have their first job, are measures that we believe, on the basis of the calculations that we have been able to make, will largely compensate for the efforts that have been requested elsewhere for competitiveness, to safeguard our jobs. Mr. Nollet, we're not going to go back to your cinema compared to 2100. Stop doing politics like you do. Again this morning, in SudPresse, you said that we had three months' vacation in this Parliament. You insult all the parliamentarians who sat here in August and September without interruption. Stop this policy! Instead, watch on Sundays, your party president, on television sets with Olivier Chastel, who indicates what you are doing, for example, on the self-employed in relation to this measure which will see totally exempt from tax the first job for a commitment in the next four years. Take some of your party president's seed. I will not say that it is making a constructive opposition, but we must at least be nuanced. And when I hear Mr. Van Hees join the arguments of the PS, I think you're preparing your great alliance. You prepare the big evening from the left to the radical left. Good luck! (...): Good luck with the N-VA.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u36	Mr Van Hees, the lowest incomes, in other words the poorest, will receive an extra EUR 140 per month. It is a government, a centre-right majority that is taking such a step!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u37	Mr President, I note that Mr Ducarme is very comfortable when he repeats his usual cartoons instead of responding precisely to our arguments. For example, he has just said "100 euros", but what about 140 euros a month for pensioners, sick people or job seekers? Not all of these people who do not receive a salary will receive the 140 euros. Of course, pensioners deserve their pension in view of their past work. How will they do it, Mr. Ducrame? It would be interesting if you could answer me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u38	You are aware that the social minimums - whether pensions, integration income or unemployment benefits - were increased by 2 per cent in September. You are aware of the measures that have been taken in favour of the lowest pensions since this government took action. You are also aware of the measures that will be taken in 2016 for certain pensions and the 15% supplement for others. You are also aware that we have re-aligned the pensions taken before 1995. You do not ignore; you pretend to ignore, because you are constantly in the caricature towards this government, which you have called "government of the rich", but which, in fact, carries out the work you should have done. We are a social majority, who will defend solidarity. And your long sobs, your sleeve effects, your caricatures won't change anything!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u39	Mr. President, the record is starting to get really scratched.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u40	Change yours!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u41	Mr Group Leader, I ask you a specific question and you answer me anything technically! Indeed, as far as pensioners are concerned, I am going to put aside the controversy about adaptation to well-being. Let's go in your direction, yes, they've had the adaptation to well-being, even if it's been a thing since the early 2000s. But you did the index jump, which is a 2% puncture. So, what adaptation brings about well-being is neutralized. I therefore come back to my question: how will people who do not benefit from the effects of the tax reform in the face of the increases in consumption taxes that you have planned? Asking this question is not an insult, it is not a caricature! This is a specific question and I would like to receive a specific answer!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u42	I have given you the information on the increase in pensions prior to 1995 and the 15% increase in holiday pay for 1.85 million pensioners. I have also spoken to you about the fact that this majority has raised the social minimums by 2 per cent. You are asking me a question that I have already answered because you want to caricature our action, because the figures are for our action on social minima, for our action for pensioners and for pensioners who want to continue working. We are indeed on the move to ensure that solidarity is fully expressed with pensioners.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u43	Mr President, I would like to give a specific answer to the question concerning pensioners. In 2015, due to low inflation, there would have been no indexation in any way. A retired person with a minimum pension will gain 22.46 euros per month, plus the holiday allowance of 39.40 euros. That is EUR 308.92 on an annual basis. Mrs Onkelinx had asked for an exact answer. Well, this is the exact answer I can give.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u44	Mr President, I will turn to my colleague CD&V president for a more precise technical debate. My dear colleague, when you were in the opposition, we negotiated the adaptation to well-being. We got it, we got it! So it was a due. A due is a due mass, which was no longer to be negotiated. Yes, there was, at one point, under a legislature, to avoid the index jump, at the request of the Liberals, a decrease in the welfare envelope. But we had planned an increase, as you know, it was a demand of the Socialists. And we had it in the law. This wellness envelope, you act like it's a gift at some point. But it's against the truth. It's a good thing they should have, whether you're doing a tax reform or not, whether you're raising taxes on consumption or not. If we neutralise this, they unfortunately have the index jump and all the taxes on consumption, in addition to all the measures concerning pensioners that I mentioned this morning. So, yes, truly, I believe that pensioners are the ill-loved of this government and that their situation is going to get worse, whereas it is already not simple. Pensions in Belgium, compared to the European average, are not very high. You are further increasing the life difficulties of these men and women who have sometimes given their entire lives for our prosperity. And that, indeed, I denounce him.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u45	Mr Ducrame, I have asked you one rather precise question, but you have not answered it. I asked you why reducing the return on personal tax, which is a progressive tax – this concept of progressivity is a guarantee of tax justice – the higher the income you have, the higher the tax rate you pay. So why lower that tax and in return, increase the VAT which is a fundamentally unfair tax because everyone pays the same tax rate, regardless of his or her income? Piketty says that this is a 19th century tax. The question was specific, I would like an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u46	Mr Ducrame, when I hear you explain that for pensioners, everything is fine and they will benefit from 2% of their pension increase, we are obviously very far from the famous hundred euros that you speak of in your slogans. When one increases a pension of EUR 1 000 by 2%, that gives another EUR 20. We're a long way from those hundred euros. Moreover, you know very well that, for flat-rate costs, pensioners obviously do not have a change in their taxation since they do not have a flat-rate fee. You say you don't take what you give from the other with one hand. You pull out a battery of numbers but honesty still wants us to be able to repeat here, Mr. Ducrame, that you don't incorporate the index jump into your meter bolt. You calculate by acting as if you had never applied an index jump. Finally, Mr Beke, when I hear you justifying this index jump and an increase in VAT on electricity, that is the peak. It looks like you're happy to hurt twice: by applying the index jump and increasing the VAT on electricity from 6% to 21%.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u47	I am appalled by your comments on the increase of one hundred euros. We've been talking about a hundred and forty for the lowest income and you're pretending that's the order of the slogan! You still haven't lost foot with reality at that point? One hundred and forty euros a month, you think that's a slogan? Do you think that in the pocket of the employee who earns a thousand five hundred euros gross a month, it's just a slogan? No! This is a strong political path that the majority chooses to increase purchasing power. We have a government in this country that increases purchasing power. We have the impression, when we see the debate, that we are reducing it! No! We are increasing purchasing power. We are financing a tax shift that will create thousands of jobs. Have there been any interventions on job creation? No. We had a number of congratulations from Ms. Onkelinx from the outset. She congratulated us on working for the self-employed, reducing the burden on work... But the challenge of this tax shift is to safeguard existing jobs and increase the number of jobs in our country, by regaining competitiveness. In that context, we had to make an index jump, and we assume it. In the meantime, it was necessary to implement our policy to increase purchasing power, not by giving gifts, as Mrs Onkelinx said. But even if it's not a gift, when we give something, we give it 100% and not 60%. We do not repeat what we are giving, because we believe that these 100 per cent are essential to help a number of social minima. On the other hand, it is unfair to say that pensioners are the ill-loved of this government, given the work that is being done to safeguard our pension system, to ensure that we increase the lowest pensions as we have done, and to take a number of measures, plan by plan, that will complement the incomes that need them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u48	Mr. Ducrame, you used the right word. You talked about the pocket and so the people's wallet. In this pocket and portfolio, there is, on the one hand, what the tax reform - through the tax of natural persons, the lump sum charges - can bring in more, but on the other hand, there is also what you withdraw from them with the taxes, the index jump. You act like it doesn't exist and that's obviously the problem. Indeed, it is not a hundred euros that you add per month in the people's portfolio, because you have to remove all taxes and index jump. Secondly, to say that pensioners will be treated like employees and that they will have as many benefits as employees, is to ignore the reform that you yourself have implemented. They are terribly far from it and, on the contrary, taxes and index jumping will be applied to them at 100%.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u49	Mr Ducrame, I reassure you: the intention to create more jobs, and if possible of quality, we fully share it. However, we question the means you use to achieve this. To try to clarify the debate, I would like to know, in your opinion, how many jobs will be created with the measures implemented, and what means will be used to ensure that the reductions in contributions that you have decided on are allocated to job creation. As a result, what will be the cost per job created? Mobilizing public resources is interesting, but it must be done in the most effective way possible by creating as many jobs as possible. To start a debate that I will be developing earlier in the rostrum, what will be the fate of non-market employment, which today benefits from measures that are called Maribel Social? The latter ensures that contribution reductions are transformed fairly effectively into new job creation. This is a measure that we support. Tomorrow, this ability to create employment through reductions in social contributions will be impossible by the choices made by the government of which you are a member. You talk about raising the pocket salary while this pocket is holed since you take back a lot of what you otherwise give. You deprive of this benefit a large part of the public concerned who may need this increase in monthly revenues. We're talking about all the social beneficiaries, the pensioners. You mentioned the increase in minimum pensions. Compared to the 100 euro measure, do us a calculation to estimate what this represents. What is the specific amount? We are close to the 20 euros that have been quoted since we are talking about pensions. How many pensioners, out of the total of the million pensioners, will be affected? You compensate with structural measures for the link between social benefits and welfare which was paid by workers, at a certain time, only for part of the public. All the beneficiaries, and mainly the pensioners, will pay all the other compensatory measures that you have decided because you have not had the courage to tackle the income of capital properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u50	Mr. Ducrame, we regret that the government's presentation is inconclusive with regard to the purchasing power component, as index jump has not been taken into account. Admit that fact! Review your calculations! And don't pretend you're offsetting consumer tax increases with a cut in labour tax because that's not true when you consider the negative effect of index jump! That's all we're telling you!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u51	I am a little surprised by this debate. Mr Beke said that the minimum pension would increase and that there would be no indexation in 2015 anyway. Mr Ducrame, you say that there is a 2% increase, thanks to the adaptation of the wellness envelope. The spill-over index was exceeded in June. Without your measures, all pensioners would have received 2%. You say that pensions have risen by 2%, but before they have risen, you have already deprived pensioners of 2%. You did not give them the index adjustment. On top of that, I am taking an example of a pension of EUR 1 250, which means that an increase of EUR 25 in September has paid EUR 10 more for electricity alone. Now you say that the welfare adjustment will come to an end, but you first took 35 euros. Those aren't great principles. That is the account of someone with a pension of EUR 1 250 today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u52	Mr President, I wanted to react because I am a little surprised at this continuing trend of misinformation regarding the whole pension policy and the revalorisation of pensions. I would even say that I attend here – in my opinion, it is a worsening – to misinformation in organized tapes, which is worse! I would therefore like to restore the truth, without triumphalism and without pretending that everything is for the best in the best of the worlds, surely not! Things are difficult, we know. But I still want to restore the truth. Indeed, half a billion of the well-being envelope, or 500 million euros, has been allocated to the upgrading of the lowest, the oldest pensions. This is exactly twice the amount spent by the previous government on the previous package of EUR 250 million. We went from 250 million euros to 500 million euros. That is the truth! Mrs. Onkelinx, you're telling us it's a due. If this is really a due, then I wonder why the Di Rupo government has cut this envelope from 100% to 60%. You're contradicting each other. You reduced that welfare envelope under the previous government. The previous government did. And we also have our share of responsibility under the previous government. My goal here is to fight misinformation. I say things the way they are. We reduced the 2013-2014 wellness envelope to 60%. That's the truth. This government has increased this welfare envelope from 60 per cent to 100 per cent. That's the truth, too. We have increased the lowest and oldest pensions by 2%, and I believe we have not made index jumps either in 2014, or so far in 2015. That's the truth, too. The index jump didn't happen! You know that and you also know that it will probably not intervene before the end of 2016 or the beginning of 2017. At that time, there will again be a welfare envelope that will increase pensions by 2%. There is another unacceptable misinformation because Mr Laaouej, who is an expert on taxation, knows very well that his remarks on the subject are incorrect. I heard that the tax reform did not affect pensioners. That's totally wrong! Today, pensioners who receive a pension of 15 500 euros per year do not pay any tax. Of course, when we cut taxes, any primary school student could say that, we're not going to reduce the tax of those who don't. But beyond EUR 15 500, the abolition of the 30% tranche and its replacement by 25% play full. As a result, all pensioners who receive a pension not less than 15 500 euros but 15 700 euros will no longer pay any tax at all. It is therefore an increase in the cohort of pensioners who will no longer pay tax as a result of this adjustment of the ranges from 30 to 25%. It is important to clarify this, because it is the truth! All those who receive a pension in excess of EUR 15,700 will benefit fully from the 30-25% reduction. Those who do not receive a pension of EUR 15 500 but a minimum of EUR 13 749, all of them benefit from the improvement of the welfare envelope, i.e. 2%, i.e. 270 euros per year for an isolated person and more than 350 euros for a household. All of these also benefit from the 15% increase in the holiday price. When we add up everything, honestly, to pretend that we have not re-aligned the purchasing power of pensioners, it is simply misinformation, or even, if you transvestite the truth, to say the opposite of the truth. This is not acceptable, because it is a distraction of anxiety and anxiety among pensioners. When one claims to defend the latter, especially those who receive a small pension, to make them believe that their purchasing power will diminish while it is the opposite, it is a lack of honesty towards them. This kind of behavior is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u53	Mr Bacquelaine, we expect you to explain to us how much the small pensioners you claim to defend will lose as a result of the index jump and the increase in VAT on electricity as well as other taxes on consumption. The question is whether, with the well-being envelope they already enjoyed, the loss of income they suffered will be offset or not. That is the calculation that is being asked of you. Mrs. Onkelinx has shown you that they are unfortunately losing. You are right when you say that those who receive less than 15 500 euros of pension will not see their tax reduced because they do not pay any. However, they are hit hard by the index jump and the increase in VAT on electricity. These losses will not be offset by the welfare envelope which, fortunately, exists thanks to the socialists.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u54	Mr President, Mr Bacquelaine, if pensioners are the subject of one of your main concerns, if, like us, you recognise that this is a social issue, that pensioners should not be able to benefit from the advantages of tax shift and tax reform, in other words, if, like us, you think that the very low wages that are not subject to tax would also deserve to benefit from this tax reform, why not work on the basis of a negative tax credit? I suggest that you go back to what was said in July and that 100 per cent of the population benefit from it. Today, according to the figures put forward by the Prime Minister on the radio, only one in two people is concerned. Why didn't you take this path that seems much fairer and that makes it possible to reach all taxpayers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u55	Mr President, I would like this to be looked at very carefully. The Minister of Pensions says that there has been no index overrun in the first place. I think he's very mistaken. I believe that the central index for pensions was exceeded in June. As a rule, pensions should have been increased by 2% in July. The index jump didn't cause this to happen. Minister, you say that it is not. In my view, the central index was exceeded in June. Pensioners therefore did not receive a 2% increase from July. If you say that the index has not been exceeded anyway, then I have a lot of questions. In my view, the central index was exceeded in June. It is very bad that the majority does not even know that they are already applying the index jump.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u56	Mr President, I confirm that the index jump was applied in June or July. We were going to go beyond the pivot index but, with the law, it didn't happen. Pensioners should have received an additional 2 per cent. Mr Bacquelaine tells us that not all pensioners are affected by the absence of a reduction in the tax on natural persons. But the majority of them will not benefit from any tax reduction and, on the other hand, all will pay more tax because of the non-indexing of the reduction in replacement income. Very few pensioners will benefit from the tax shift.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u57	A part of the employees will also have nothing at the level of the tax shift and the tax on natural persons, since an isolated person with two dependent children will not benefit from the abolition of the 30% tranche.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u58	We must not invest in new fighter jets, and I congratulate them on supporting this. There are people in parliament who are against the F-35, replacing F-16. It's also money you're going to take from the workers. This is another form of tax shift: taking money from taxpayers to pay for new fighter jets.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u59	Mr Bacquelaine, I believe in your good faith, but I find it serious that a Minister of Pensions has not been aware of the fact that, since June, pensioners have been victims of your index jump policy. I think it's serious! As for the debate on the welfare envelope, you do not give the envelope 100%. I have here the documents according to which you reduced it from what had been concluded in the context of the sixth reform of the State. So you made two important mistakes in your intervention. In your capacity as Minister of Pensions, that's a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u60	Mr President, the social partners, the unions unanimously, considered that family allowances should not be part of the welfare envelope. They would have accounted for 5 per cent. It is true that, for pensions, we have increased from 250 million to 500 million. That's the truth! You're blocking that 100% increase. That seems to me to be extremely important. [[...]] If that was the law, I wonder why you reduced it to 60%. Let's be serious! We have always been consistent about the need to compensate low incomes and low pensions by adapting to well-being. That is what has been accomplished. On the other hand, even households with the smallest pensions are concerned. The 25 to 30 per cent tax bracket automatically applies to them. They are therefore beneficiaries in the same way. This is a reduction of 184 euros for someone who receives the minimum, i.e. 15 500 euros. Therefore, to claim that the tax reform does not affect pensioners, i.e. the opposite of the truth. That's what I hear every day. That is why it is important to restore this truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u61	Mr President, I shall return to a few questions that have been asked. I'll start with Mrs. Fonck. Mrs Fonck, I do not deny that the effort that this majority wants to make in favour of employment in order to reduce certain burdens needs to be financed. It's obvious. If this majority and this government want to make this effort on the employment front, to safeguard and create jobs, taxes will have to be lifted, but they will be largely offset by the increase in purchasing power. Mr Gilkinet asked how many jobs would be created. Again, as I said at the outset, we do not make fetishism on a number. It is Mr Nollet who makes fetishism on the figures, but he is wrong in numbers. As regards the measures that are taken for the lowest incomes, employers' contributions will decrease, out of a gross salary of EUR 1,500, by 17,3 % in 2015, by 13 % in 2016 and by 10,9 % in 2019. This means that there can be a real encounter between these policies and businesses and job creation. How much is not the question. A maximum must be our answer. Why start giving figures? A number of analyses and reports have been made. The figures are rather optimistic in terms of job creation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u62	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u63	I am not going to give the details of these reports. If you wish, I'll send them to you. I'm not going to read reports when I've been talking for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u64	Colleagues, if we intend to interrupt and intervene all the time, we will not make any progress and we will end up in a system in which all Members will want to intervene. So it will be a choice that you will have to make yourself in the end. I cannot refuse to speak to anyone who asks, but I call on them to be moderate too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u65	Mr. President, I'll be very short. This is already the third time that a majority party has again called for an automatic link between gifts given to businesses and job creation. Mr Ducrame, I am asking you the same question as your colleague from the N-VA. Yesterday, Coca-Cola reduced the number of jobs on its Zwijnaarde site by 122 posts, while this company received nearly 30 million tax gifts. That is hardly to say that it has benefited from a favourable climate. How can you continue to believe that by giving gifts, you will create jobs? Can you give me an exact answer to that specific question?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u66	Mr President, over the last few days I have listened carefully to the government ministers, the Prime Minister this morning on La Première, Mrs Wilmès on TéléBrussels, and others. With regard to job creation prospects, it is true that the government is quite nebulous, whereas less than a year ago Mr. Peeters gave precise figures based on studies by the National Bank or the Plan Office. What does that mean? Are you no longer sure about the numbers you announced less than a year ago, Mr. Peeters? Second question. I heard the Prime Minister say this morning that he would submit a request to the National Bank and/or the Plan Office for an estimate of job creation prospects. May I draw your attention to the fact that, the previous time, you had submitted the same request, but in a disaggregated manner? You asked for an employment impact assessment, measure by measure. Does the Government commit itself to making a request to the National Bank and/or the Office of the Plan for all the measures it takes and in particular the measures that will inevitably contract domestic demand? I'm thinking of the index jump, the increase in taxes on consumption. It is too easy to come here to present studies that show the effect on the use of measures considered in a disaggregated manner. This is the entire policy you must submit to the National Bank or the Planning Office. Mr Peeters, where are the figures you told us less than a year ago? I note that your colleagues are no longer taking them back.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u67	I hear Mr Ducrame say that there are reports on the number of jobs that would result from the measures you have decided on. If these reports do exist, I would ask that we have them. Good governance would have required simulations based on different assumptions of both growth rates and job creation measures. Depending on the different growth rate assumptions, we could have identified the most positive and potentially job-creating measures. It's obviously amazing that you didn't! I heard on Monday your Minister of Finance speaking on the La Première radio station and saying that he was unable to commit to any figure, and you did the same thing yesterday, Prime Minister. It is therefore surprising that you did not rely on encrypted simulations. On Monday, I asked that you ask for an analysis from the Office of the Plan and no problem either for it to be carried out by the National Bank, but you will have to ask for a complete and honest analysis, that is to say, both on the number of jobs created and, of course, on the effects on the citizens' portfolio, through the tax reform and through all the taxes and the index jump applied. In June-July, the Planning Office estimated that 200,000 new jobs had been created in relation to the policy and measures adopted so far. Yesterday, Prime Minister, you told us that you guaranteed your commitments to Europe. But what are they? Your commitment to Europe is an employment rate of 73% in 2020 under the 20/20 strategy. Very concretely, this means 400,000 jobs. It would have been normal, logical and ambitious to set the goal of creating 400,000 jobs by 2020. That is the objective you have committed yourself to pursue for the European Union, for the European Commission, and that is the ambition that could at least be expected of your government!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u68	Mr. Ducrame, like all members of the majority, like all members of the government, refuses to cite an objective in terms of job creation. That's the exercise I was offering her. I think it's symptomatic. This is an important figure, because we know the amount of reductions in social contributions that it has decided. We know that this will result in a social security deficit. I would be interested to know how it fills it, but above all it would allow us to calculate the unit cost to the job created and, on the basis of this amount - it was very important when we evaluated the first measures of the government on the basis of the study commissioned by Mr Peeters - to propose alternatives to you. Furthermore, it is important, Mr. Ducrame, that you specify the levers that you intend to use to ensure that these reductions in social contributions automatically create new jobs. To what extent will this economy, which will be achieved by employers, become jobs? I'm worried. I have given you the example of the non-market sector, the social Maribel, where the transformation of social contributions reductions automatically created jobs and you come back to this system. What commitments have you asked employers to create jobs? How many jobs have they committed to creating through your actions? In a contract, we need a counterpart, conditions. What are these conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, and, of course, Mr Ducarme, first of all, in order to create jobs in our economy, we must create a context in which there is a possibility that entrepreneurs will recruit people. That's what we did. The Prime Minister has already stressed that we are reducing the wage burden, and we assume that this will lead to the recruitment of staff. The first reactions of employers are very positive. Both professional organisations and Agoria and individual entrepreneurs say that they will recruit after the agreed reduction of charges. Secondly, we have decided to go very far for the first recruitment in small and medium-sized enterprises, because we know that there is a lot of potential and that recruitment is taking place there. I too regret that Coca Cola may lose 122 employees. That has to do, if I am well informed, with the way in which the company deals with digitisation. It's not possible, except in the non-profit sector............................................................................................................................................................ That's not how it works in reality. That was also understood by the previous government. Also in the previous government's competitiveness pact, which we very much appreciate and maintain, there was no direct relationship between reduction of charges and recruitment. That also makes sense, because that's not how it works. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been discussing for some time how many additional jobs the measures will create. That is a very delicate debate. It's very easy to put numbers on it. However, we are resisting the temptation to comment on the extent of the additional employment created, because we want to tackle this seriously. Last time we asked the Planning Bureau and the National Bank to provide us with figures, because the calculations of those authorities in Parliament have more authority. The Prime Minister said yesterday that we are doing this again. We wrote a letter to the Planning Bureau. Mr President, I will hand that letter over to you so that everyone can read it. In that letter we asked the Planning Bureau to provide us with a number of calculations as soon as possible in order to inform Parliament accordingly. We have also asked for contact with the National Bank to ensure that no figures from the National Bank and figures from the Planning Office are available, but grouped figures from both institutions. You'll have to read the letter. I believe that this is how we underline the seriousness with which a debate can be held in Parliament. We do not work with loose figures, which we shake down, but we work with figures from the Planning Bureau. You can have that letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u70	You can be convinced that all the measures taken to reduce the burden will create employment, as the measures taken for self-employed persons to hire will also create employment. In addition to these measures, which are called Mrs Fonck, by all the reports from the OECD and the European Commission, it was necessary to ensure that our competitiveness was improved and to combat social dumping. This is one of the measures, the major wills of the majority and the government in this area. Belgium is one of the top three countries in Europe with the largest number of posted workers on its territory. The detachment has led to the loss of more than 17,000 jobs in our country. The main issue is the high labour costs in our country, and at the level of the MR Group, under the leadership of David Clarinval, we tabled a majority motion for a resolution adopted last July. At the same time, a plan for fair competition has been approved and is in the process of being implemented. We must also welcome the statements made by Commissioner Thyssen on the question of social dumping, who wants a more voluntary Europe in this area. The Prime Minister has committed himself, along with a number of European summits on this issue, with a number of his counterparts. It is essential that this government, this majority, can move forward with Europe on this issue. Creating employment, preserving a number of jobs, is also helping sectors in difficulty. Therefore, we cannot, in relation to the action already taken by this government in this area, fail to mention the horeca sector. The horeca sector is one of the largest providers of labour in our country. It is carried by the majority. It is therefore necessary to continue to support the action that has been taken by Minister Borsus and the Government in relation to measures taken with regard to farmers in the face of the crisis in the dairy and pig sectors. This majority chose to mobilise all available levers (AFSCA, social security for the self-employed) to help an important sector for our rural life, our economy, our food independence, for these men and women who have created their own jobs. The carrier back system will itself be evaluated for possible implementation for the benefit of our farmers in difficulty. The reform group, Caroline Cassart in particular, will shortly be submitting a proposal on the subject. Another element, which is one of the pillars of our government's action, is the issue of Health and the Environment. Some elements have already been identified. We will have a more comprehensive debate on the thematic plan with Damien Thiéry who will speak on the issue. But I could not fail to mention some of Maggie De Block's actions in the area of health: the hospital reform to thoroughly reorganise the hospital landscape and develop a new hospital concept, which is obviously fundamental; the pact of the future signed with the pharmaceutical industry for better access to new medicines and a reduced patient bill; and the reform of mental health for children and adolescents, for accessible and quality care and above all adapted. Other major projects must be created with respect for the defence of liberal medicine, the safeguarding of the independent character of the health professions, the free choice of patients, therapeutic and diagnostic freedom, the personal relationship between provider and patient. The reform of childcare services is, of course, also indispensable, which is expected, especially in rural areas. In rural areas too, we will have to pay attention to the problem of the shortage of general practitioners. I would also like to say a word about the problem of the environment. In a few weeks, the Climate Conference will open in Paris. The Prime Minister naturally referred to this in his government statement, and it is Damien Thiéry who, on behalf of the MR, will be tabling a resolution in the Health Committee next week that we wanted to volunteer with regard to our government's commitment to climate, technological and financial issues with the Green Climate Fund. Another major action of this majority is the issue of security. We must continue to work to ensure the safety of Belgians. Minister Jambon, more than ever before, the police place is on the ground with optimal means, as you know. That too is to show respect. The police have to do more than they did yesterday, and not another. In particular, we will follow this file carefully and support you on the project of essential police missions. Of course, the safety of citizens and the safety of the police will need to be enhanced by the use of new technologies. For the MR, the adage "more blue in the street" also now implies "more blue on the canvas". Police officers must be able to patrol the Internet, both to combat traditional offences facilitated by the use of new technologies, and to combat new offences (falsifications of bank cards or data). Action in this area must continue to be implemented. Of course, the Prime Minister has reminded us that we are not done with the scourge of radicalism and terrorism, which is a terrible threat whose objective is the destruction of the fundamental values of our democracy, while it is aimed at enabling everyone to flourish in an open and tolerant society. But this open and tolerant society must necessarily be firm in the face of this threat. The fight against radicalism and terrorism was a priority of the government agreement. It was within this framework that the twelve measures of the government were implemented, most of which were implemented. Our country now has a National Security Council that meets monthly under the leadership of the Prime Minister, a significant difference from what was happening before. The Government has also put into practice what some see as a taboo: the deployment of military personnel to sensitive sites, a positive, necessary and often popular measure. Among other measures, we will include the new circular "Foreign Fighters" which will help local authorities in the front line to deal with this issue. To this end, the government recently announced – this is an important step forward – the release of one million euros to combat radicalism in the ten municipalities most affected by this phenomenon. This measure was welcomed by several opposition elected representatives. Some files have to blow up the majority-opposition divides. The security of the Belgians is one of them. The first results are encouraging. The number of departures is decreasing. This is an extremely positive signal. Other measures could have been implemented under the previous legislature, which was not possible. That is the case today. That requirement had to be met. Colleagues, in addition to those I have already mentioned, other measures can produce a number of results. I am thinking of the removal of passports and identity cards, the repression of the departures and problematic returns of Belgian fighters who have left in the theatre of jihadist operations. All of this was included in the proposals we made during the previous legislature. Unfortunately, we had to wait. This government is catching up with the delay that some have made us take, and it has made our country take on security.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u71	Mr. Chairman, to hear what has been said, there is the impression that the MR was not part of the previous government. However, a number of competences, including in the fight against radicalism, were in the hands of the MR. I am thinking in particular of the Department of Foreign Affairs. And I do not understand why the passport withdrawal measure was not immediately activated; however, it was possible on the basis of the Consular Code. I would remind you once again, Mr.Ducarme, that the measures proposed in Kern in April 2013, namely the measures relating to the withdrawal of nationality and the activation of the mercenary law, as well as all the measures that the current government has taken, and which we have supported, were proposed by the previous Minister of the Interior and rejected by the then government. I therefore ask myself serious questions when I hear that it has been necessary to wait for this government to arrive before these measures are actually taken. Mr. Ducrame, I wouldn't have come to this field, but you're forcing me. When you made your statement in October last year, you announced a number of measures. However, it was not until July, more than seven months later, to see the first documents arrive in Parliament and in the committees. If we have indeed stressed that dedicating one million euros to the communes which are particularly targeted by radicalism is a good thing, I would remind you that the means devoted to the fight against radicalism are clearly insufficient. The €200 million envelope was sold and sold ten times by the government to announce special forces equipment and a range of other measures. This is not enough because additional tasks are required. During the attack in Thalys, which fortunately failed, measures were taken for increased surveillance of transit places, luggage. We need complementary means, and we do not see them. Other tasks than those of the communes require resources and we would like the measures that you adopt to be part of a global vision of fighting radicalism, with a clear budget allocated to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u72	Every time, it's the same thing, Madame Matz! When we talk about this, you remind me that the MR was in the government, and I remind you that Joëlle Milquet was Minister of the Interior. We have discussed in committee the measures that have been taken to combat radicalism and terrorism. You've supported many of them. You have come in support of the majority on a number of measures that were provided for in the government agreement. You have had extremely positive assessments of the new measures. Indeed, there is talk of financial reinforcement at the level of communes particularly affected by radicalism and terrorism. I'm not going to argue about this with you. I think you know that the government and this majority are doing good work on this issue. You know that the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis (OCAM) has been financially strengthened. You know that this is also the case with State Security. You know how full and effective the engagement of the Prime Minister and responsible ministers is in this regard. I want to continue to have discussions with you on this issue so that the outcome is as constructive as possible. As I said, on matters relating to the safety of Belgians, it is necessary to blow up a number of divisions. I'm not going to go into any further controversy with you. You made the remarks you usually make, so I'm not surprised. You will be able to continue to do so in future debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u73	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u74	I didn't say he didn't do anything. We're late, you know that. We should have taken action on the ban on departures earlier. Unfortunately, this country has for too long underestimated the peril of radicalism.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u75	In 2013, the coordinator for the fight against terrorism stressed that Belgium was at the forefront of these issues and that it was the driving force behind a series of policies at European level. You know that too! You cannot therefore say that the phenomenon has not been apprehended from the beginning by concrete measures. In April 2013, a dozen measures were proposed to the Kern, including those that this majority has just voted on, which were rejected at the time! It is quite incorrect to say that the previous government did not measure things up. I would remind you that you were part of this government with foreign affairs skills in particular!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u76	I maintain and confirm that the peril in this area has been underestimated in our country. Joëlle Milquet is not here, so it is not the intention to talk about the former Minister of the Interior. I would not like to rob you of this issue. Much remains to be done and the widest possible gathering and debate on this subject will be required. The Minister for Mobility has arrived. The drama of Thalys...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u77	What about the Walloon dorsal?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u78	Mrs. Fonck, frankly! We're talking about the Thalys drama, and you're getting us the Walloon dorsal! You know, some jokes should be avoided. I'm not going to remind you of the Jewish Museum, Charlie Hebdo or Verviers' operation. I'm not going to tell you again that we have avoided a real drama in Thalys. Attention must be paid to certain subjects. After the fortunately missed Thalys attack, it is clear that realities have emerged. Various avenues are currently under consideration, as part of the collaboration between the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Mobility. Measures have been taken to strengthen rail safety through the identification of critical structures, the revision of the Railway Safety Committee, and the granting of real-time access to images of SNCB cameras to the police. That's a great step forward. One wonders why this was not the case before. It is now a reality. We will follow closely the development of a Belgian NRP, which could draw on the mechanism set up by a French socialist, Mr Cazeneuve, and the measures taken to combat arms trafficking. We will take initiatives and put forward proposals to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u79	Mr President, I intended to make a personal statement on radicalism and the threat of terrorism. I would like to take this opportunity to say a number of things in response to what Mr Ducarme has said. Mr Ducarme, you are referring to the Thalys incident.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u80	Mr. Bonte, I'm sorry to interrupt, but...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u81	Would you rather I deal with this separately?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u82	I think that's better.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u83	There's one thing I want to say. I think they're drawing the wrong conclusions about the Thalys incident. Now that heavy investment is being made in train stations throughout the country, while other investments are needed, a model example of flare-up policy and poor spending is money. After all, the risk derivatives are everywhere. I'd like to use the Thalys incident to point out a number of things. You need to analyze the Thalys incident. This is the most fundamental security problem this country has. If such incidents are analysed, they always end up in Brussels. I'm not happy to say that, because I love the capital. It is intended that the capital will organise itself as a modern capital in the field of security policy. I am referring to the fact that the six covered police zones and the nineteen mayors are supposed to apply the very good FTF directive, the Foreign Terrorist Fighters directive, and to set up integrated security centres locally. Mr Ducarme, the first priority in our country, however difficult it may be, should be to organise our capital in an effective way in terms of security policy. As long as we do not do so, we will continue to pursue flash-flame policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u84	To close this part of the debate for which I thought I had said everything, I have another element to add. In his capacity as Chairman of the Defence Committee, Philippe Goffin will speak on defence issues. I wanted to talk about the problem of asylum. Over the past twelve months, our Government has been able to ensure an intelligent and effective treatment between its domestic and foreign policy, in a difficult context of identity retreat which constitutes a breeding ground for xenophobia. It is essential to recall the importance of our European values, our convictions and respect for European and international legislation. Some of the expressions that have come up in recent months also remind us of how the fight against racism must remain one of the cornerstones of our common political commitment. In the face of the crises we are going through, the answer is obviously no less Europe, but a Europe that embodies the solution much more. As we have seen, it can produce results: distribution plan, reinforcement of Frontex, rescues of migrants in the Mediterranean. It is essential to have a Europe on the agenda. We are facing the biggest migration crisis since the end of the Second World War. Since 2015, more than 22,000 asylum applications have been submitted in Belgium. In September, we received 5,521 asylum applications. It's a record. As the CGRA has indicated, compared to a number of trials which have unfortunately been launched on this issue in recent months, such a sudden increase of such magnitude was not foreseeable. The situation in Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan or some countries such as Somalia, not to mention the chaos on the Libyan coasts, means that the flight of migrants will continue; the action of the government and the Secretary of State Franken in Belgium must be welcomed very objectively. The same applies to the action taken by the government at European level. Exceptional measures were taken very quickly, allowing for an increase from nearly 18,000 to nearly 37,340 places in the Fedasil network in a few months. This was much faster than in the 2010-2011 crisis. Ten thousand buffer places are planned in 2017, or 47,340 places in the near future. This increase goes hand in hand with an increase of more than 300 people in all asylum bodies. Belgium must therefore continue to develop a human migration policy, but also firm and must maintain a balance between rights and duties. A welcoming country that meets its international, moral obligations, but where abuses are not tolerated and punished. The government has also announced avenues for reflection on asylum, including the end of unlimited residence for refugees after a temporary stay in the first five years, as is the practice in many European countries, as well as the limitation of family reunification exemptions for refugees and the increase in processing times for family reunification cases, given the increase in the number of asylum applications. These measures are in full compliance with the standards, in compliance with the European directives. They have the support of the MR Group. Asylum and migration policy is based on a balance between humanism and firmness. The Prime Minister recalled that. In this sense, the government demonstrates this. Humanism with the reception of asylum seekers fleeing war but also firmness for others. For example, more than 1,000 evictions of illegal offenders or criminals have taken place since the government's inception. That's a good result. It is the firm part of our policy that we must pursue: if the current rates of recognition of refugee status are around 60%, 40% of the applicants are rejected. For these, alongside this demand, this duty of humanism, we also have a duty of firmness. The government must be firm. The only option is voluntary or forced return, if any. Return policy must be a priority. As such, it is the credibility of the State that orders to leave the territory should be carried out in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u85	Mr. Ducrame, I didn't hear you correctly. As far as the status of refugees was concerned, they certainly had rights and duties. Did you say you were going to review that status?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u86	No, not at all. To be precise and to ensure that you have all the information, the European Union is discussing ways forward. It is not a question of reviewing the status but of considering changes in the level of unlimited stay for refugees. It would be a matter of providing for a time-limited and renewable stay. With regard to return policy,...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u87	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u88	Mr. Ducrame, please finish. Mr Maingain, you do not have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u89	Mr President, before concluding, I spoke of our duty of humanism in relation to the asylum crisis. I would also like to inform you that the Reform Movement wants more feedback and would also like to consider a number of ways to strengthen our policy in this area. I referred earlier to the leads in question. In conclusion, as I said, our conviction with regard to this government statement and the government's plans is profound. For the past year, this majority has been carrying out the reforms that the country needs for employment, for our competitiveness, for purchasing power, for socio-economic well-being, to safeguard our social model, but also to continue the absolute need to clean up our public finances, so as not to let this burden slip clearly on the shoulders of our sons and daughters. Here too, these are social responsibilities. The first reforms undertaken will bear fruit. Reforms must continue for the benefit of all and above all the most vulnerable. This majority, despite the caricatures and misinformation, will be social with determination. We're on the right path. This majority wants us to continue to move forward determined, respectful of social dialogue and open to dialogue. Because, for the past year, choices are the right ones, because the course is the right one, because you are committed to continuing, because the first reforms will show their positive impact for our citizens, for all these reasons and because our country needs it, the MR Group will vote without hesitation for confidence in your government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u90	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, if you will allow me, I will begin my speech where I finished before the recess, with what I said about the tax shift. The Flemish Christian Democrats have gone to the electorate with a programme of economic growth and social progress. The tax shift was part of that. That was our guiding principle in the government negotiations, which is why we have included them in the government agreement, which is why we have called for this to be done. Today there is a significant tax shift for you on the banks, of no less than EUR 8.3 billion. Mr Prime Minister, as you said yesterday, these are not slogans, they are decisions. It is a result that may be seen. For us, the priorities were indeed jobs and the improvement of the competitiveness of our companies. They're in the agreement. We have focused on reducing taxes, especially on low wages. We have focused on the purchasing power of low-income people. What do you see? That this is also in the agreement. We have focused on families with children, who should not be disadvantaged by a reduction in purchasing power. That has been taken into account. We have put emphasis on the non-profit and we expect employers in the non-profit sector to translate this into jobs and thus set an example to their fellow private sector employers. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember the debate before the summer. There was no clarity as to whether or not the VAT increase on electricity would be compensated in the index. I can still hear the opposition's colleagues say that we would also take the VAT increase out of the index and thus put a second index jump on top of it. Colleagues, what do we notice? The VAT increase remains in the index, which we insisted on, just as we insisted that there was compensation for those suffering from energy poverty. Colleagues, we were also concerned if we were to bring the reduction of the burden of 33% to 25% in the long term, which would have consequences for SMEs, the self-employed, for whom the RSZ was already below 25%. That was taken into account. The first recruitment for an SME is free, the next five with serious reductions. This is also taken into account, as is the construction sector, as well as the catering industry, in short, the small entrepreneurs who are the engine of the economy in our country. For the summer, I said that I think this is a balanced agreement. We have indeed done so, and you are right to point out that we are not achieving everything we wanted. We would have liked to have had a little more in order to achieve further reductions in charges. This is not something that we have to accept, but we think that this is an honorable compromise. Mr Prime Minister, yesterday you spoke words that stirred up dust and which I also said before the summer. Let me quote you again: "Never has a government made so much use of the income from capital for reducing labour charges. Those aren't slogans, they're numbers. Colleagues, it might have been a little better, but the better should not stand in the way of good. When we see how this tax shift has been further developed, it strengthens me in my conviction of this agreement. We will faithfully implement this agreement. In Latin they say:pacta sunt servanda. The complete agreement, including the figures and the balances thereof, the proceeds of the caiman tax, of the speculative tax, of the stock exchange tax and of the property tax, will be followed faithfully. Prime Minister, you were quite right to say that this government has the ambition to strengthen our economic model in favour of social protection. Then it is indeed a priority to get people working and keep them working. That is necessary, because if we look at the rates of activity in our country, we find that they are far too low and that they have even fallen slightly. That's why the tax shift should lead to a joblift. It was a good thing that we had a suspension this afternoon, so that we could also verify the figures on employment which my fellow Members spoke about in the morning. I do not want to talk about prospecting, I want to talk about the concrete figures coming from the RSZ and the RSZ-PPO, from 2014 to the third quarter. We note that the number of jobs in the private sector increased by almost 11 000 in the first three quarters and that according to the prospects of the RSZ and RSZ-PPO, the number of jobs would increase by more than 19 000 in the private sector. Let us compare this with previous years. Employment has also increased before, but we all know that the main incentive when the public sector was, in particular, the service cheque companies. Let me quote from the figures of the Planning Bureau:.Last year, economic growth resulted in an increase in employment of 17 700 jobs. A total increase of 62 000 is expected for 2015 and 2016. Here's the deal: "The job creation has been much less supported since 2014 by the expansion of the service check employment than in previous years. So it is now stimulated by the private sector. This confirms that the path we took during the previous legislature, with a reduction in wages, led to more jobs in the private sector in 2014. This government is making further progress by strengthening and accelerating the measure. If this measure produced more jobs in the private sector at the time, it will undoubtedly do so in the future. The Minister of Work has ordered a study. Well, such a study was also ordered during the previous legislature. In 2011, the Planning Bureau calculated that a reduction of half a percent of GDP in wages would give rise to more than 30 000 jobs. With this tax shift we do much more. The number of jobs in the private sector will, therefore, undoubtedly grow strongly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u91	Mr Verherstraeten, first of all, I thought the Deputy Prime Minister had just buried the discussion on the additional number of jobs. At a certain point in November 2014, I remember Minister Van Overtveldt talking about 80 000 jobs. Then I heard Minister Peeters talking about 60 000 jobs. Yesterday, the Prime Minister spoke in the policy statement on 50 000 jobs and I hear today that a letter has left to calculate how many there will be in the end. Let's stop this discussion. We hope that it will generate a lot of jobs, because that is what we Socialists are about. The discussion today is not about how many jobs will be added. As far as we're concerned, the more the merrier. Secondly, you say that you have insisted that with this government and with these measures the purchasing power of the people would increase. I would like to warn you, Mr Verherstraeten, that once there was someone in your place who was wondering who these people would believe. He even became Prime Minister after that. This government must be careful constantly to think that people who work earn more and gain purchasing power. After all, the measures taken by this government make life more expensive. You can try to tell us that, but we don't believe you. People don't believe you. I have a quote from the ACV, a friendly union regarding CD&V, from last Monday, so not from a year ago. I quote a rule from their press conference: 'By the measures taken by the federal and Flemish governments, almost every citizen loses purchasing power'. Be honest in your discourse. Don't tell us and the people that they're gonna make progress. You have chosen to have the reduction of charges paid by increasing people's invoices, rather than getting it from those who do not have to pay. Why don't you be honest with me about that? I'm warning you. People will not believe you, and if there is anything bad for politics in general, it is that people outside no longer believe what is being said here. Thirdly, Mr Verherstraeten, and you have to explain this to me, you referred to the debate we held here in Parliament in July 2015. You have pointed out that your party believes that the tax shift is well connected and reasonable. I have two quotes from Members of your group on this too. After your words, Mrs Lanjri remarked on 1 August: "This tax shift is not fair, too unbalanced. Our limit has been exceeded. I still want to be able to look in the mirror. Mr Vercamer added: "The disappointment is great. Keeping the wealthy out of sight is a missed opportunity. My question is this. These are statements made by two of your political groups immediately after the government has also publicly explained what the tax shift will mean. What has changed during the negotiations over the past two months, which means that, among other things, those two members of the group now feel that the tax shift is balanced, when they felt that it was not balanced? What's changed now? After all, I have only heard today and yesterday that has been worked out and discussed what was decided at that time and that no new decisions have actually been taken. This is also apparent from the table which the Prime Minister explained earlier, stating that the table, apart from a few technical details, is still the same and that nothing else has changed. So I would like to know from you why the CD&V Group, which considered the tax shift to be unfair two months ago, now considers it fair. That will perhaps make us understand why you say today that this is a balanced agreement for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u92	Mr Verherstraeten, you are in your role when you point out here and there certain aspects of the so-called tax reform that seem to correspond to your priorities. However, I would like an answer to the following question. Will the famous speculation tax, whose expected yield does not impress anyone, concern stock options? This represents a volume, according to L'Echo, of 2.2 billion. It depends on one year to the next, of course. I stress that it is a question of the volume of trade and not of potential revenue. Are stock options included in the scope of this speculation tax that you are going to credit to the CD&V?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u93	Mr Vanvelthoven, our government and other governments are forced by the crisis to take measures that are not pleasant for everyone. However, it has been a conscious choice by the majority not to pass the invoices on to future generations. Moving forward, that's not our choice. If the tax shift, the reduction in personal taxation and purchasing power measures are at full swing, much less pleasant measures will be more than compensated. Both this morning and this afternoon, I have not heard the following in terms of people's purchasing power. You spoke a great deal about the index jump, which we debated last year. The Planning Bureau and the National Bank predicted 19 000 and 30 000 additional jobs respectively. We agree that the tax shift and the reduction in wages will give rise to additional jobs. Well, like you, I don't pin myself on numbers. I hope that there are as many as possible, but also if the figures of the National Bank and the Planning Bureau are about right, which I am assuming, then we have not yet talked about the thousands and thousands of employees who keep their jobs or who will get a job. Their purchasing power is increasing phenomenally. Mr Laaouej, as regards speculation tax, last summer there were 28 million in the tables. There's now $34 million in it, which is much higher. The arrangements are what they are. All agreed financial products sold with profit within six months are taxed, not at the lowest rate but at 33%, and there is no deduction of the minus value. I believe that this is a good result. Mr Vanvelthoven, that is partly an answer to what you have said. What has changed since last summer? We also talked about the minus value at the time, and we were not talking about a rate of 33% at all. We also did not talk at the time about the specific measures, which we would take very focused on the lowest wages. We did not talk at the time about the very specific purchasing power and tax measures for low incomes. We did not talk at all about abolishing the 30% rule. It is a very good thing that it was abolished, because it had the perverse effect of penalising families with children. Well, we took that into account. All these things were taken into account because we in our group were concerned and expressed those concerns. If we as parliamentarians can't do that anymore, then I don't remember either. Moreover, the social concerns that our group had were also shared by other colleagues from the majority. That is why the government has taken it into account, and that is why we consider the measures to be a very acceptable compromise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u94	Mr Verherstraeten, you are too loyal a soldier of the majority. The persistence with which you defend the tax shift surprises me. I must say that I really appreciate Mr Peeter's speech on 24 July. Mr Peeters said on 24 July that it was not an end. According to him, there was a need to move on. A larger capital contribution had yet to be realised. Today, Mr Verherstraeten says that it has been a fantastic exercise. CD&V is extremely satisfied and wants to proceed to the order of the day. You're knocking on the chest because you pulled an extra 6 million euros out of the fire. Since when does CD&V have a policy of 6 million euros worth of fair taxation? This will result in 34 instead of 28 million euros. Mr Beke, your youth department, not immediately the great revolutionaries or radicals, they are just the older CD&Vs, like Mr Van Rompuy, but they are no longer heard, said about that speculator tax of EUR 28 million that they were peanuts. I am addressing both Mr Beke and Mr Verherstraeten, because they are still in the same party. Mr Verherstraeten, does the 3D plan mean anything to you, which I suspect you have written along with it? On page 39 of the program of the CD&V, "The tax regularisation' is stated. I quote Chief Author Wouter Beke on tax regularisation: Everyone has now had the opportunity to regularize income. The budgetary revenue also shows that. But now we've reached the end. Those who are hard learners will therefore also have to bear the consequences." What's CD&V doing today? A new round of tax regularization. Mr Verherstraeten, fiscal justice is a job. Tax fraud is a crime. I do not understand why you are here today to triumph and say that you have already achieved fiscal justice. Fight with us! There is a social and political majority for that fair capital contribution. If you show backbone and if Mr Peeters is more on the table in the nuclear cabinet, then there will be that honest contribution of the greatest abilities. Please make it work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u95	Mr Calvo, first of all, I would like a little more respect for the CD&V young people. The CD&V youngsters have already dropped more governments than the Greens have ever been able to drop. Their political impact thus exceeds yours many times. Secondly, I hear the same song here as in the previous legislature. In the previous legislature, the nationalists said that the government's measures cost families 400 to 600 euros. Today it is the Socialists who say that. No one denies that we face two major challenges. Firstly, how can we ensure that we move from a deficit to a budget in balance in a sustainable way? That is an operation of about EUR 10 billion, all over the legislature. Secondly, how can we finance the increase in social expenditure, including some 10 billion, for the additional pensions? In 2004, Mr Vande Lanotte, you said that would be the year of truth for pension reforms. We've had to wait years for it. You created the Silver Fund. Do you know how much is in there? For six months of retirement, while people today have to be able to count on a pension for twenty years. We give that security of pensions. If you are referring to the ACV, I would also like to say something about it. I understand a number of concerns and concerns. I won't make a secret of that on behalf of the whole party. As far as housing tax is concerned, we felt that it would have been fair to have applied the scheme of the housing bonus for the first home also for the second home. We would have found it fair that indexation should have been done not only for wages and benefits but also for rents. We've never made a secret of that. Mr Verherstraeten has already said that the first way out of poverty is to ensure that people get to work. There is a consensus on this throughout Parliament. That is why we must reduce the burden on labour. Well, that's what we're doing with this tax shift. The burden on labour is brought down by the shift towards burdens on eco-taxality, health and capacity. In this way, the balance is in place and we will ensure that it is realised. Finally, Mr Calvo, you are talking about the 3D plan. Well, I want to test our 3D plan, our election plan, against what's in the tax shift today. We are spending EUR 3 billion in cost reductions to bring the employer's contribution from 33% to 25%. That was in our plan and it was realized. There will be an increase in purchasing power of EUR 3 billion, which will also be realised. For the welfare envelope, EUR 1.2 billion is reserved to increase the lowest pensions and benefits, and that has also been achieved. I can say with my head held high that what we have promised to the electorate is being implemented in the current policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u96	Mr Beke and Mr Verherstraeten, my mouth has already fallen open, and every word you say will open my mouth even further. I don't understand how you can defend all that. My colleague has already said that the only thing you are proud of is the 6 million you pulled out. The Supreme Court of Finance has calculated that a capital gain tax could yield EUR 4 billion. Four billion versus six million, I know what I'd choose. Secondly, what means do you use to bring in that $6 million? Was there an index jump in your 3D plan? Was your plan that the retirement age would be raised to 67 years? Was your plan that you wanted to bring the VAT on electricity of 6 % to 21 %? Was in your plan that the water bill went up? No. If you're on the chair, tell the whole truth. All you do is let people take the fall for it. Here you come to tell us that you will reduce the burden, while the burden can be reduced through the assets and without affecting the purchasing power of the people, but the ability leaves you untouched. That's what you do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u97	Mr Beke, Mr Kitir is right to point out that it is a very bad idea for you to recall your electoral promises. The list of broken promises of CD&V covers more than half the A4 amount of figures that Minister Michel has distributed: the index jump, longer working hours, VAT increases and tax regularisation. I'd like to put the 3D plan, of your own hand, aside. For fraudsters, things are being dealt with once again. However, Mr Verherstraeten, I would also like to look ahead. Mr Verherstraeten, you say that you are satisfied with that. You're defending that as a loyal soldier. However, I would like to refer again to Mr Peeters' statement, in which he said that this exercise was not done. Rome wasn't built one day either. A legislature does not end after a year. Do you want to join together, that's an outstretched hand, in this Parliament...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u98	He's busy again. Going to look for that majority again. There isn't one.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u99	Mr Van Biesen, I know that you are getting nervous about the idea that there will be fair taxes in this country. That's not in your party program. That's the problem. There are too many tax taboos at Open Vld. I'm trying to convince CD&V to break those taboos. Mr Verherstraeten, I have a very simple question. Are you prepared, together with us, to keep that debate on the agenda, to respond to this call for justice in the years to come? Are you willing to say with us that the largest assets must contribute more than EUR 30 million? Isn't today at least tomorrow or the day after that? Are you willing to do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, it will never be enough for some members of the opposition here. What is peanuts for some people is labeled by others as slaughtering the chicken with the golden eggs. Maybe we've looked at balance, but look back. Real estate funds have never been so heavily taxed. The caiman tax didn't exist in the past, never so high. The stock market fees have never been this high. The withholding tax has never been so high and the same applies to the banking tax. It's never been this high. Indeed, tax regularisation was not in our programme, but the fines on it have never been so high. They will increase progressively in the course of the legislature. That is what the majority agreed on. What are we going to do with this majority? I told you that a moment ago, Mr Calvo. An agreement is an agreement. We are going to faithfully implement this agreement: the full agreement, the spirit of the agreement, the balances in the agreement and the figures in the agreement. We will monitor the figures, including the Cayman tax, including the speculative tax, including the stock exchange tax, including the banking tax, including the withholding tax. We'll keep an eye on that. We monitor that. If that is to be adjusted, we will change it together in the majority in order to honour the balances we have agreed on.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u101	Mr Verherstraeten, do you really believe what you are telling us today? My question is sincere because, as the Michel government was not going to tax big fortunes, I could have known. On the other hand, that a majority party has made the social movement believe since November last year that there might be a tax on wealth, this is called intellectual dishonesty. In the ranks of the Christian social movement, I see in particular a maturity that leads to no longer wanting to be fooled by the CD&V. We are no longer going to believe a CD&V that is now in the gallery welcoming the so-called "big fortunes" by going to get a few million euros when the same party had promised the social movement a real tax on wealth. Do you believe in your words and are you serious in trying to convince the social movement that this government affects big fortunes at all?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u102	Mr Hedebouw, I repeat myself. Yes, we have put this item on the government's agenda and in the agreement for the first year of work. Yes, we have achieved a result that I am defending here today. Yes, we would have liked more. I'm not denying that either. But we have reached a compromise, as is always the case within a majority, and we will respect that. What you call malhonnêteté is 4.5 billion additional purchasing power for people: more than 3 billion in taxation, more than 1 billion in wealth. You call that malhonnété, I call that social policy. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this government is facing socio-economic reforms in the coming months and years. If we are to implement it in a sustainable way, we will need support from the workers. That is why social dialogue is so necessary. Important files are coming to us: workable work and supplementary pension. I realise that this will not be easy with the social elections coming up. In this assembly, we all know what election fever can do to people. So we should not blame the others either. That doesn't mean there's nothing we can do. That does not mean that we should not try, because everyone has to win in a social agreement. There may be protest on the street. We respect that position and we will listen to it. However, not only should we speak on the streets, but we must also speak at the negotiating table. I agree with those fellow Members who say that there is no dictatorship on the street. However, we add that there can be no dictatorship of politics without social support. Social support is needed to implement sustainable socio-economic reforms. Mr. Prime Minister, you said that you...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u103	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the need for good social dialogue. Last year, in the same debate, I discussed in detail what social concerts should be. If there is no consensus among the partners, Mr Verherstraeten, there is someone in a democracy who has to make the decision at some point. As you know, social partners do not always excel in social progress: a certain conservatism has already mastered one and the other. In a newspaper this week, and not just the magazine of the liberals, they no longer wrote about the Group of Ten, but about the Group of Ten. The ability of the social partners to conclude agreements has been reduced to make it possible to put a bag of money on the table that needs to be distributed or redistributed, but it becomes much more difficult when it is to achieve breakthroughs. I pay particular attention to one dossier, that of e-commerce. Whether we like it or not, this phenomenon is advancing around the world. We can't ban progress. However, we can see that our country is hopelessly behind that, still because of the ban on night work. From my province, where Mr Kitir has her home, we can see that on the other side of the border companies are developing which focus exclusively on that activity. What one orders from us is delivered with the smile of a Dutch carrier the day itself or the day after. I leave in the middle whether the Dutchman will smile about football today, but it is the reality: we are losing that market. We have said that we want to wait until the end of this year for a consensus among the partners. I say it very clearly: I want to wait until the end of this year, but I will not accept thousands of jobs being destroyed by the inertia of the social partners at the moment. If there is no consensus by the end of this year, then this Parliament must decide, then politics must decide. Otherwise, on a certain day, we are blushing again with one hundred and fifty when some big player leaves our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u104	Mr Dewael, I have the impression that we are having this discussion about the role of social dialogue every few years. Mr Verherstraeten, it does put the debate on edge. I almost said to Mr Dewael: let them come to Vilvoorde and surroundings. There is a lot of night work in this country, including in my city and in my region. I would be surprised if this is not the case in Limburg. Very flexible work is taking place. All kinds of flexible systems are being operated. The only thing that seems to bother Mr Dewael is the conclusion of collective agreements on this subject either by consensus or by agreement. It is very often subject to a fee in exchange for that flexibility. If we now hear Mr Dewael's appeal that the agreements should be broken unilaterally, it is almost programming the negation of social dialogue. That is all I wanted to add, but I think it makes the discussion clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u105	Mr President, as a Minister for Work and a former member of the Group of Ten, I can say that it is very important that the importance of social dialogue be stressed once again in our hemisphere. The explanation of the death of the Group of Ten is not new, but I think that this should be discussed with great respect, because there are very important decisions taken by both employees and employers. Mr Verherstraeten has just set a good example with e-commerce. We could opt to simply change one case in the law by removing the ban on night work and then we will be there. Of course, anyone who says that does not have full knowledge of the dossier, because at company level there must also be working arrangements and agreements between employees and employers. Imagine if we were to change the law with one sentence, then it is an illusion to think that we can apply it directly in the field, in the companies. It is for this reason, ladies and gentlemen, that it has been agreed in the government that we should give every opportunity to discuss the matter. In the various joint committees I can discuss them with a great deal of seriousness and expertise. I agree that we can create many jobs in e-commerce. We will do everything we can to achieve that. We're running out of time, you're right. However, it is not wise to say here that with one sentence in the law everything can be solved, not even with regard to e-commerce. I would like to underline that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u106	Mr President, I think it is important that the Minister for Employment recognises that this is an important dossier and that many jobs can be created. I will not put numbers on that, but thousands of jobs are lost in our country today because companies focus their activities on other countries. That is very worrying, because we are talking about the need to create jobs. The whole morning we were in the process of answering the question of what we can do fiscally and parafiscally to encourage the entrepreneurial spirit and to ensure that more people are working. So I say very clearly and calmly to the government that these thousands of jobs should be within our reach in the coming weeks and months. I am not going to be told that our country is the only country in the European Union where this sector should be left on. This would mean that we would not be able to adapt our employment regulations in a way that would make it possible to develop those activities in a competitive way. It's still not possible today. I say very quietly: with social consultation if it is possible, without social concertation at some point if it is necessary, because we are not going to stand idly by. I have already announced legislative initiatives in this area on behalf of my group.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u107	Mr President, Mr Verherstraeten, yesterday the Prime Minister said that social dialogue is very important. The Minister of Work underlined this once again. Do you know that the social partners not only come to talk to CD&V but to the whole government when they come to talk to the government? The problem is the different attitudes of various members of this government. I hear you say that social dialogue is important. I hear Mr Dewael say that the government must take decisions if no agreement can be reached between the social partners. If that is the tone of respect for social dialogue, if that is the way to reach out to social dialogue, then you should not be afraid that no agreement will be reached. I hear others saying that it must be continued, whether the unions want it or not. I believe that this government should decide among itself whether social dialogue is really so important to it. If no agreement is reached, it is easy to blame the social partners, but the disagreement is in your government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u108	Mrs Kitir, I have never said that I do not think social dialogue is important. I do wonder what we should do in a changing world, where we find that other continents are evolving rapidly, to ensure that we can keep up and get more people working. If this is possible with the social partners, I shall give them every opportunity to do so, but if it is not possible with the social partners, then I ask you what you would do as a Member of this House. Will you continue to establish that it is not possible and that it is not possible? Are you just saying that the meeting may last a few more months? Is that your finality? May I give you a counter-example? In the previous legislature we decreed an absolute wage freeze. Did you then consult with the social partners? Did you have an agreement with the social partners before that? You didn't have that. We have implemented that wage freeze with socialists in the government because it was necessary for the competitiveness of our country. At that time we found that the social partners were looking at each other and then politics accepted its responsibility. That's how it belongs in a parliamentary democracy!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u109	Mr President, this is a good debate. Prime Minister, who will you be right about? To Mr. Dewael who goes over social consultation? Or to Deputy Prime Minister Peeters who wants to remain in touch with the social partners? What is the position of this government on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u110	Mr President, yesterday the Prime Minister said, "I have a solid majority". You know, it's like jobs: the more you repeat it, the more you believe it, but that's not why reality is the one you announce. It must be said that this session is much more exciting than the one we had yesterday. That's indisputable. There is almost a feeling that the government should ask for a suspension in order to complete its statement. Today, it is through the voices of the group leaders that we are aware of directions that have not even been expressed by the Prime Minister. It is the group leaders who are creating the new generation of the majority. This was not the Prime Minister yesterday, but you, Mr Verherstraeten, today, saying: "Social concertation above all else. We will no longer move forward on a number of areas without social dialogue." So Patrick Dewael's reaction came in. Previously, Mr. Ducarme was taking steps towards N-VA to adapt the status of political refugee candidates, while the Prime Minister was completely silent on this matter in his statement. We wonder how long it will take for us to have the supplementary statement. I believe that this is the major observation of today's political day.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u111	The Minister for Labour is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the Prime Minister stressed that there are negotiations on e-commerce and that we want to see results by the end of this year. I believe that Mr Dewael has no reason to worry now. Firstly, we are not yet at the end of the year. I would then like to go through the following elements. In the Joint Committee No. 119 an agreement was reached to provide for a derogation for night work. In the Joint Committee No. 140.03 night work is already possible. The other joint committees know that they must reach an agreement by the end of the year. There is therefore no reason to say now to the social partners that we will take an initiative if they do not get out by the end of the year. We will see at the end of the year what we have to do. I have every confidence in the social partners who are doing serious work in the joint committees and who know how much employment can be created. The latter must be supported here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you know that our group has great confidence in all the social partners, both employers and employees. We feel strengthened, of course, by the statements made by the Minister of Work, but also by the government agreement and by the practice of the last 12 months. I just heard the words: 'With social consultation if possible, without social consultation if necessary'. We do not agree with that. The social dialogue will always be the case; we will always talk. Does that mean that a social agreement will always be reached? No. That was not always the case in the past either. I am addressing the socialist family and I am thinking of the generational pact, of the wage freeze. There was no social agreement on this, but it was implemented by the government. That didn't happen until after social consultation. Now, the social dialogue is in the coalition agreement and our group will always stand on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u114	Prime Minister, I do not know if you are really aware of this, because you remain very calm, but what Mr Verherstraeten and Mr Dewael are saying does not go well together. (...): Yes, it is! [[Rumor]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u115	The hotshot...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u116	The only thing we have said (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u117	You persist in anger. You keep acting like everything's going great, like the government team's getting close and not arguing with each other. Now, Prime Minister, I invite you to listen carefully. Mr Verherstraeten, I noticed something. With regard to social dialogue, I am taking a bit of a middle position, perhaps it is a bit of a CD&V position: I am between Mrs Kitir and Mr Dewael. I agree with Mr Dewael that the social partners may sometimes be a bit more reform-minded; Mr Dewael might also be in some areas, for example on capital contributions and commercial vehicles. And I agree with Mrs Kitir that this must be done in a serious way. I note, however, that Mr Dewael is consistent on this point. He also says here in Parliament that he said that last year, that he said that six months ago and that he said that today. In this majority he takes the space to say that Open Vld will continue to work for it. I have just invited you to do the same on another point, namely by saying that you said a year ago that there should be a fair contribution to the greatest capabilities, that you said that six months ago and that you say that today. Why do you not have the resilience, the assertiveness that Mr Dewael has in the social field? Why do you say that what you said a year ago has become worthless today?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u118	Mr Calvo, we are bound by the coalition agreement. Moreover, when the social partners conclude social agreements, they also know that this must be done within the budgetary constraints of a government agreement. That's how it is now, that's how it's always been, that's how it's always gonna be. This is undoubtedly the responsibility of the social partners, before, now and tomorrow. Even if we have planned a time frame and even if it is not reached, I think it is wise to take advantage of the chances of success for an agreement. Similarly, a timing was planned for supplementary pensions. Well, this government has decided to give the social partners more time and space to find an agreement. That is the right path and we will continue to follow it. Economic and social measures which are feasible on the ground can never be successfully imposed unilaterally; there must be a minimum of social support. That is the time and space that our group gives in this matter, no more and no less.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u119	I share your conviction and you know it. We must avoid immobilism. We must believe in social consultation and make every effort to reach an agreement between workers' representatives and employers' representatives. Having said that, since you believe in it, I would like to ask you what you are going to do about health care. You believe in social consultation, but, as I know, the last savings decided in July by the government in this area have not been the subject of consultations. The partners of the mutual agreement at the General Council of INAMI refused the draft budget submitted to them, because these savings were too large, but also because there had been no consultation. The ball is now back in the government camp. You claim that your philosophy is to focus on consultation. What are you going to do? I think it's interesting for you to clarify your conception.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u120	The Minister is competent in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u121	Mr President, as far as social consultation is concerned, I repeat what I said yesterday: there is only one line in the government on the subject. We want to give every opportunity to social dialogue, as we have shown. For the past year, it had been true that difficult measures had been taken and those decisions had to be explained. The very many agreements that have been reached within the Group of Ten have been very widely implemented, although they have not always been fully implemented. We take into account two parameters, as the previous governments did, to which you belonged, Mrs Onkelinx: the budgetary implications of the initial decisions taken by the government and respect for the philosophy of the government's policies. This is the balance between the great respect for the social partners, on the one hand, and a parliament and a government that fully assume their political responsibilities within the democratic framework that you have expressed: a parliamentary majority supports a government that also takes on responsibilities. As far as the health care budget is concerned, we will have a discussion on the subject this Friday in the Council of Ministers. We found that the budget could not be validated on Monday. As you said, the bullet returns to the government camp. We will analyse the situation and the main reasons why this budget could not be adopted. After the Council of Ministers, we will be able to communicate to Parliament the decisions taken on this subject. You know the legal procedure in this area. Not only will we abide by this procedure, but we will ensure that this health care budget can be validated so that we can implement our health commitments. In addition, we are talking about savings in health care. That's not true! There are savings vis-à-vis a completely theoretical norm. The health care budget will increase next year, as it did this year compared to 2014. There will therefore be an increase in the health care budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u122	Prime Minister, in the budget that was recalculated by the General Council of INAMI, there was an increase in the standard of health care of 0.69%. The government's commitment was to have a 1.5% standard. So you are clearly amputating half of what you promised for 2016. But things obviously go further! When the projection is made until the end of the legislature, the figures give the turn: this amounts to more than €3.3 billion. Is it worth recalling that you promised to set the standard of health care at 1.5%, which was well below what had been achieved before, since it had been 3 and even 4.5%? You don't even respect the government's commitments!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u123	Prime Minister, you say that the health care budget is going to be bigger next year than this year. All that would be missing! [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u124	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u125	In terms of forecasts and in relation to the budget target, there is less than €3.3 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u126	[[Compared to what?]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u127	Compared to the standard of health care. And fortunately, the budget is increasing as the spending trend is increasing. You're going to save on this trend. As I said this morning, you are necessarily going to cut this budget significantly. It is not only I who affirms it, since the majority of the General Council of INAMI also says so. This will either lead to an increase in costs for patients, an increase in expectations to go to the doctor, or a quality problem for the whole. The question I asked Mr Verherstraeten was about consultation, because he did a very good speech on the importance of consultation, and he is right. In this area, on health care budgets, you have increased the level of economy without any consultation. What will be the position of the CD&V in relation to this finding?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Verherstraeten has not said a word about health care and we will have a debate this evening. He was talking about consultation. I propose that Mr Verherstraeten continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u129	Mr President, I refer to what I have just said. The social partners are free to negotiate, but they are aware of a budgetary context. That was also the case in the past. Since the banking crisis, since the economic crisis and since the budgetary crisis, the social partners have known that the trees do not grow to the sky and that social agreements must also be concluded within a budgetary framework. That's part of their line. That is also partly their responsibility. They have the right to consult and advise us. We are committed to taking maximum account of their advice. However, they also have obligations to do so within the budgetary framework, including in the area of health. We are seeking a negotiated agreement in the government which is as close as possible to the greatest common denominator of the social partners. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister said yesterday that we need to explain things a little more clearly for some of the measures. It may be true that we can rationally convince people. That is why they are not always ready for a perfectly rational measure. The fact that we all have to stay on for longer is a legitimate ambition. This was also a legitimate ambition of several previous governments. That is also the ambition of the current government. Everyone is aware that longer work is necessary to keep pensions affordable, to cope with the cost of ageing and to keep our social model strong. However, when we talk to 55-plussers on the streets today, we are faced with a few who are no longer satisfied with their work, who are being put backwards in relation to some of our young colleagues, who are suffering from health problems or who have no work adapted to their age. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a change of attitude, not only for employees but also for employers, is necessary in this respect. Therefore, a strategy and agreement with the social partners on workable work and a family-friendly career are necessary. Mr President, I come to my final point. I'll skip a few points. However, our assembly must not remain silent about what has grabbed us all at the throats of the last summer when we were all watching the TV. Yesterday, the Prime Minister pointed out that in our country we had never been faced with such a flow of refugees before. Of course, a flow of refugees raises concerns and questions. Who are we supposed to catch? Are we sure we can catch them? How are we supposed to catch them? Are they going back? How can we end the conflict? I believe that the federal and regional governments have shown decisiveness in this area by taking measures in relation to reception and pre-care. We should not forget, especially here in our assembly, that there are many mayors and local administrators in the Chamber who have taken their responsibilities and made important efforts. Those, who are on the first line, experience what it means to sometimes have to accept hundreds of asylum seekers or war refugees in a small community in a village or a municipality and what that does with the cohesion of that community. We must, of course, hear the concerns and the questions, but we must not feed the fear. Fear is a bad counselor. Nor should we raise people's concerns. The answer must be one of trust. For our group, that answer is an answer in many cases. It's a story of rights and duties. That is the only way to maintain a proper balance between our moral duty of solidarity and our concern for cohesion in our society. That means war refugees have rights. Of course they have rights, not only because we have traditionally committed ourselves to this, but also because it is our human duty. They have rights, but they have no privileges. They also have duties: the duty to integrate, the duty to learn the language and the duty to seek work. Does that mean we can catch anyone? No, of course you can't. Open borders do not exist, but closed borders do not exist. Fortress Europe does not exist. Those who do not have the right to asylum must be sent back in a humane manner, voluntarily if possible, forced if absolutely necessary. In this sense, we also support the proposal of the Director of the Foreign Office to have the closed centres run at full capacity. For those who are entitled to the refugee status, we must be a good host, just as they must be good guests for all those good hosts in our country. Every newcomer knows that, in terms of the foundations of our society, such as freedom, equality, solidarity, respect and civic spirit, we cannot make concessions. I pointed out to the Minister responsible in committee last summer that we are facing a very difficult task. At the moment we have to mop up with the crane open, while rowing with the belts we have. We must be able to tackle the cause of this international problem and find a peaceful solution in the Middle East and North Africa. Of course, this is primarily a role for the great powers, but our country and Europe must try over the coming weeks and months, however difficult it is, to play a more important role, because we are the first stakeholders in Europe as a result of the conflict.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u130	Mr Verherstraeten, I am happy to hear you say it. I can broadly follow your reasoning. We need to integrate refugees who really need to be received, those who are recognised as refugees, into our society as soon as possible, into a legal and duty story. You also say that it is not easy for the refugees, for the local authorities and for our inhabitants, but we all have to take responsibility. The mayors are voluntarily called upon to receive refugees, but I note that very little is being done in many municipalities. Do you not think it would be a good idea to organise a distribution plan for the recognised refugees as well, so that enough language and integration lessons can be offered?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u131	Mrs De Coninck, the Secretary of State has just made very clear the importance of a fair distribution of asylum seekers. I think that's what everyone here is asking. That is also what your group has asked for. We must spread asylum seekers in a balanced way in our country and then it will be decided who can stay in our country and who should return. We have to work on this return, but once refugees are recognised and legally admitted to our country, they have the right to live wherever they want. That is also stated in the Constitution, and I thought you would know and respect it. So do you not want to comply with the Constitution in that regard, Mrs De Coninck? Will you now say that there will be an obligation to establish yourself? Do you think it would be a good idea if you were banned from living in Antwerp and you were obliged to move to Bruges? That's an absurd idea that brings you here. You say that we must oblige people who have been recognised to do so. I am not talking about asylum seekers. This goes against all international law and against our own Constitution, which includes freedom of establishment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we continue this discussion when we deal with the chapter in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, of course there is a need to spread out in Europe and also in our country. However, I will come back to my final point, namely that we can only really and fully solve the problem if we can respond to that international conflict and stop the cause of people's influx. I call on this government and the European community to do so. Only if there is lasting peace can we successfully encourage people to return. Only then can we convince them to use all their talents to rebuild their country of origin. That must be them and also our ambition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u134	Mr President, I would like to make it clear that recognised refugees need support. Some of them don't. If one does not need support and therefore has enough resources, one can effectively live and live wherever one wants. However, if one is asking one's own party to claim rights and duties in mind in order to obtain support in any form, means, courses, guidance or guidance to work, then I think we can make a number of demands but also offer them. People will then be free to decide whether or not to go into it. It's about aid.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u135	Mr President, if I may, I will decide. Prime Minister, a year ago you arrived here. It was an unpublished coalition. Many thought that coalition wasn't long-lived. They were talking about a kamikaze coalition. I note that no one speaks today of a kamikaze government. Despite perhaps many differences of opinion, which we have, I think we can achieve in a democracy too, we have agreements, important agreements, lasting agreements, structural agreements. This government is doing what is necessary. She creates jobs to strengthen prosperity. Precisely because you are committed to economic growth and linking it to social progress, Prime Minister, we will give you the support with confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u136	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to the essence of what a State of the Union, the state of the country, should be. I recall that Prime Minister Dehaene introduced this many legislative hours ago in order to overcome, at the beginning of a parliamentary year, the usual contradictions, the political politician, in order to get away from the delusion of the day and to look at the state of the country in general today. What is the state of our economy? How does our country position itself in a rapidly evolving world? Where are our partners? Where are our allies? What happens on other continents? What should we do to safeguard our prosperity for the future? These are the questions that I believe should be addressed. I note, Mr President-in-Office, that this is understandable, and that is not a criticism, Mr President, that it is difficult for many Members of this House to go beyond that. We are working on what has emerged in the newspapers over the past few days: a health tax, a reduced reception here... Will it all be right? I think that in the coming weeks and months we will have enough opportunity to check whether the accounts are correct in all possible committees. What I want to see judged today, Prime Minister, is whether you are on the right track. Do the broad lines of your policy correspond to what is happening in your majority? Can you also count on a majority in this Chamber? That majority should not necessarily always coincide with a party political majority. In fact, I have seen that some of your initiatives also have the opposition saying that they are very good measures. I don't think that's enough. So I want to place the debate in a broader context: Belgium on an ageing continent. I'm not saying that with a certain dedain, an ageing continent. Are we doing well in Europe and the European Union? How big is the European Union's economic growth next year? One-and-a-half percent? What are we doing on other continents? At that time, in connection with the financial and banking crisis, we said that it was imported from us by the Americans at some point. What have the Americans done in recent years to transcend them? How quickly have they overcome the financial crisis? What measures have they taken to obtain toxic products from their own banks and their own financial institutions? In the meantime, what have they done with their economic strength? At one point it was said that unemployment in the United States of America was 10%. ♪ Ever seen ♪ for that country. It is a country with very low social protection. Let us add that immediately. Today we say America is relived. There has been 3% economic growth and unemployment has been reduced to 5% in recent years. The last few weeks and months have also been about the state of the Chinese economy. There was only 7% growth. That's what we say. You should check it out over there. It is not my model of society, but there is 7% economic growth. At some point there was overheating with a growth of 12% to 14%, all at the expense of the environment, but it is a global economy, how one spins it or turns it, and our aging continent must be able to be competitive. What has the European Union done to make a fist over the last few months? There is the Juncker plan, which is trying to mobilise billions. It's kind of like the miraculous multiplication of the loaves. We are trying to create a fund that will finally make it possible to invest on this continent in what is vital for our economic future, such as infrastructure and digitalisation. I also spoke a moment ago about e-commerce. All sectors in which we are lagging behind in research and development in relation to the rest of the world. At the beginning of my speech I would like to say that it is sometimes foolish to limit the debates here to what was in the electoral programme of one or the other and to point out that a majority member has said something that may be different from what another majority member has said. It is said that such a thing cannot and cannot be allowed, that the majority no longer exists, that the government team lacks cohesion and that it cannot go on like this. I find it all rather small sometimes, considering what's coming towards us. I would just like to talk about two more dossiers, because I think that the debate has already been held to a large extent in the various parliamentary banks. The main factor with which we have to deal is that of fear. There's a lot of terror threats. Well, there's the terror of fear, which I just called conservatism. This conservatism is usually found among extremist parties. In the refugee file there is fear of the strange, which leads to people holding a discourse that I find degrading. Over the past few weeks and months, I have heard certain statements about refugees, for example, that they would threaten our prosperity and that we should deter those people. One can speak of dissuaded, but scaring is done with birds; here it is about people.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u137	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u138	Mr Bonte, at the time I also noted these statements with politicians on the left. I will spare you name and name, but this also happened to politicians on the left. My fellow Members on the left have always had a very difficult time defending a policy of economic migration. The Geneva Convention, of course, on my dead body, is not touched. But we deal with the economic migration factor with what other countries like Canada and the United States of America have done to put that dossier on the map! It is not a policy of open borders, but it must be accepted that there are people with talents, with opportunities and capacities, who can ultimately help to strengthen our economic support in our country and throughout the European Union. They are not a threat to our prosperity; they are people who can contribute to the strengthening of our social model. When are we going to talk about this factor, rather than in terms of fear? The same applies to the fear of socio-economic reforms. We're so careful. We're trying to keep the church in the middle. I welcomed the amendment that Mr Verherstraeten added to his text. I said that we should always try to reach an agreement with the social partners, but if we fail to reach a consensus, then politics must push through a solution that is as close to the consensus as possible. Other reforms, on pensions and the labour market, still lack of flexibility. What are we doing, in our country and in the European Union, to get rid of this rigidity, to ensure that economies are fresh, resilient and flexible in order to do their job? And what's their job? Their job is to create jobs so that people can live up to that emancipatory dream. No one likes being screwed up by social security, no one wants to hang on to the infusions of certain benefit systems for life. How can we succeed in creating jobs and getting people ready to accept those jobs? Mr Prime Minister, that was actually the commitment of yesterday's statement and I would like to continue with it, but I believe that Mrs De Coninck would like to give me some oxygen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u139	Mr Dewael, I can appreciate that you are looking at what was said yesterday from a certain distance and that you are also trying to look forward for a number of years and identify the challenges ahead of us. My big problem with your analysis is this. I think working is absolutely important, but we also need to think about how we can ensure that we create a society in which people can be happy. This is about work and self-development, but also about family, friends and leisure. I hear you name a lot of things that need to be renewed and I want to discuss them, but not just from an economic point of view. Indeed, our society is also faced with many burn-outs, with many divorces and with many depressions. I hear you talking about night work and about flexibility, and I have no problem with that, but you also have to look at reality in a balanced way. My plea is not to block the discussions or to get out of the way. As far as labour migration is concerned, you know that, when presenting the policy letter of Secretary of State Francken, I specifically asked you to think about it and to come forward with proposals. It is all good to me, but try to look at this problem from different perspectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u140	I do not immediately interpret your intervention as a question, Mrs De Coninck. Those multiple aspects are also mine. We have to make sure that people can be happy, but I would be wary of the government's mission as the great psychoanalyst. Very important for human happiness is that people can find customization and that they are encouraged to accept jobs as well. You say this is obvious, but I do not think it is always the case. In our society, there could also be a lot of work, work and jobs that are not born today, because they are no longer adapted to the needs of our time, due to the many hundreds of rules and limitations that have been translated into so many collective agreements. However, we are largely in agreement that work is liberating. Jobs also create jobs on their own and the government wants to make a full effort on that. The question is how they actually create these jobs and that work. Can this be decreed from a political point of view? That makes me wonder if we are aware of how a job is created in an economic process. We are putting figures on that, again this morning. There was talk about the Planning Office, the National Bank. Look at this report and this prognosis. This measure will create so many additional jobs in the coming years. I always read that with a great deal of interest, but the only sine qua non for an economy to create jobs is that it is competitive and competitive, that companies can compete with the countries around us and that they can organise themselves sufficiently flexibly. You say yes, but that is not so obvious when we look at the competitive handicap that we have had to deal with over the past ten to fifteen years. Let us now look at what the government is putting on the table to eliminate the competitive handicap in the coming years, towards the end of the legislature. I am only talking about disability in relation to the 1996 law. As far as the real absolute handicap is concerned, I think it is the intention to reduce it by a third, from 15% in absolute figures to 10% at the end of the legislature. That's a huge effort. We then discussed again whether these are the right measures to achieve this objective. I think 2016 is going to be a very important year, Prime Minister. It's almost a grandcru year to boost our economy, first and foremost because of the index jump. We have had a very long discussion on this subject, pointing the finger at certain parties. Is that necessary or not? My group has always defended this index jump because it is good for the economy. It also reduces the government's seizure. I didn't know any local government giving up the advantage of the index jump. In the end, the government has largely compensated for the loss caused by the index jump for those involved, the citizens. I refer in this respect to the flat-rate reduction in professional costs. This means 2.7 billion euros of oxygen for the economy. This also means, ladies and gentlemen on the left, that we call things by their name and that we do not, as in the previous legislature, take a measure that is actually trying to curb inflation. The VAT reduction on electricity was actually a measure to curb inflation. I've always called that a disguised index jump. That reduction was included in the index basket. Studies have shown that the index gap is well compensated. In other words, the index jump has no negative impact on purchasing power. Secondly, there is the financing of the Competitiveness Pact. The previous government mentioned EUR 450 million three times. Only one disc was funded. The remaining two discs were included in the multiannual financial plan. It is also very important to reduce the patronial contribution from 32% to 25%. This is a reduction of some 620 million euros. There is also a reduction in the burden for low wages. I am not talking about night and shift work, start-ups, catering or high-tech investment. In other words, we are talking about EUR 4.5 billion in reductions in charges that will be implemented in one year. By 2018, Mr Verherstraeten has already said that we are moving a total of 7.2 billion euros. This represents 5% of the labour cost mass. I believe that this is important and not just for large companies. This is also important for the small entrepreneur, the SME. In the future, self-employed people will no longer pay patronial contributions to the first recruitment. This will be the golden employee for each company, free of charge for the first recruitment. The cost of the second to sixth recruitment will be further reduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u141	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u142	Mr Vanvelthoven, rather free to create employment than free to drive ghost buses from one place, I don't know where, to another place, I don't know where. That is a fundamental distinction. The left fills in taxes and parafiscality by raising money from people and then the government decides how people should behave and what services they should use. [[Rumur on the benches]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u143	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u144	No, no. You were not there, Mr Vande Lanotte, because that was in the Flemish government. The atmosphere was good there, better than in the federal government, where sometimes more shivering than in the current government team, I can say. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in any case, the major difference is that the resources of citizens and businesses must be used to provide collective services without forcing them on the people. Prime Minister, the result of your policy will be that the disposable income will increase for every citizen. Every citizen is then mature enough to decide what choice he or she wants to make. Sometimes we are asked whether we give the employers a blank cheque. Will the employers create jobs? We would give gifts or gifts to the employers. Well, that's not true, because an economy doesn't work that way. To this end, I mention several reports and also statements and commitments from employers' organisations. A Social Democrat in Germany once said that today's profits are tomorrow's investments, which ultimately represent the employment of the day after tomorrow. Colleagues, take a look at what happened in the 1980s with the Cooreman-De Clercq Act. Mr Cooreman once again took part in the debate yesterday. In the 1980s, his concern was, together with the late Willy De Clercq, that the company's equity was strengthened by structural measures to ensure that citizens would participate in the companies' shares. In my opinion, the minimum period during which those shares had to be anchored was five years, which provided a structural anchoring. Mr President, I will not go back to the subject of e-commerce, because I made my point. If companies and companies will create jobs in the coming years, we will also appeal to them, then people must also be found willing to accept those jobs. In this case, it is necessary to make work more interesting, which is mainly a problem for the lowest wages and the lowest incomes. Prime Minister, I will not go over all the measures. There are three fiscal instruments that you throw into the fire at the same time. I have already mentioned this morning the abolition of the 30% tax base. There is, of course, also the flat-rate reduction in professional costs, and there is also the increase in the duty-free allowance. This will lead to a substantial intervention on people's incomes in the coming years. The disposable income that people will be left with can thus be significantly improved. Let us stop making bills about who will have to pay a little more and who will have to pay a more expensive fee. It's important what people can keep net in the pocket. This afternoon, therefore, I did not understand the criticism about the lowest income and the amount of EUR 100 per month. If we zoom in on the lowest incomes, that actually amounts to EUR 146. I will not be guilty of mercantilism, but I will add EUR 146 per month for the lowest incomes. This is more than EUR 1 700 per year. So that's actually a fourteenth month, it's even more than a fourteenth month. That's on top of another bonus at the end of the year that's added to the paycheck, to buy Christmas presents or put a Christmas turkey on the table. This morning, however, the accusation was made that the measure was favourable only to those lowest incomes, while the criticism was always that the measures were not aimed at the lowest and the median incomes. I do not understand what the left side is trying to do with this criticism. Such a measure is fundamental if a government is to eliminate the difference between working and non-working and ensure that not only jobs are created today, but that they are also filled out. Mr Crombez is not here and I am not really allowed to speak about him. I will therefore say 'the chairman of the sp.a.'. He claims that that 100 euros isn't until tomorrow. However, Mr Crombez would not have received a 100 euro tout court. The current government is creating the opportunity to implement this tax reduction. However, the debate is always centred around the question of whether this EUR 100 is already concrete. Of course, the measure fits in with a fiscal multiannual plan. I am convinced that in 2018 and 2019, everyone will be able to decide for themselves what the current government has done for him or her in terms of tax. I'll come to my decision. Prime Minister, as far as your socio-economic policy is concerned, our group is behind you as one block. I believe that we should continue to pursue the course you have taken throughout the rest of the legislative period and that we should continue to implement reforms. This country needs reforms. This country has bathed too long in some form of social conservatism. We must continue on that line. With regard to the refugee problem, which Mr Verherstraeten mentioned, I would just like to call for a little more serenity and a more rational use of words. I've been fundamentally disturbed by it. I understand that people are frightened by what's coming at them. Are we sure we can handle it? I mean that not only in the economic sense. Will our values not fail? I would like to say a few words about this. We must defend these values. It is about fundamental principles, which have to do with universal secular morality. It is about principles such as the separation of church and state, equality between men and women and individual self-determination. These are all fundamental issues, with which, on the left, Mrs Detiège, in the past, we have dealt a little unchalantly. Everyone is welcome here, on condition, Mr Verherstraeten said, that we have not only rights, but also duties and the duty to integrate into our society. There are fundamental values, I repeat, which have to do with the principles of enlightenment, for which we have fought for hundreds of years and which are being treated rather casually today. I will not open the headscarf discussion here, but for me it is more than just a "foularke', as my regretful friend Steve Stevaert once said. It is about accepting principles as the equivalence of each individual. That has not always been evident. When people talk to a lot of people about the refugee problem, they often come back: what are their duties? We have our values arsenal, which preaches the neutrality of government in the field of religion. These are the principles that we may need to defend more strongly. Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it will not surprise you that my group will give your government the confidence tomorrow with great enthusiasm. Keep going. Do not look too much and continue to prepare the future of this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u145	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, 14 years ago I applied without a higher degree. Fourteen years ago I got a chance to work with a nice job with good working conditions. Those were the good times! These are still good times, but under your government for few, for the big banks, the fraudsters, Electrabel, the tobacco manufacturers, the diamond companies and the big shareholders of AB Inbev. I tell you honestly, I do not often speak to these people, so I do not know what distressing situation they are in today that your government is so eager to help them. However, I often speak very different people and there I hear very different things. Last week I was sitting at the table in Hasselt talking to people about the topic of workable work. Do you know what those people told me there? They told me how much they loved doing their job, very much so, but that they were exhausted, that they were out, that their bodies were exhausted. Does that mean they don't want to work anymore? Does that mean they're lazy, they're profiteers or they want to go on a world trip? Absolutely not. What do they want? They want measures that allow them to work at a different pace, so that they can take it a little more slowly, for example by working a little less days. What does your government do? You have reduced the existing possibilities and raised the retirement age cold. More than that, even supplementary pensions are no longer safe. That's what's keeping people awake. For a lot of people, that means they don't have a choice anymore. Whatever they do, they always lose, either physically or financially. Unfortunately, they are not the only ones who lose. The ACV, no doubt known to you, Mr Beke, has put together how much financial loss the people are suffering because of your right-wing policy. I am surprised that you take more account of the calculation of the National Bank than of the ACV. Let me give you a few examples. Lies works full-time and Jan half-time. They have two children in college. Loss per year 1 075 euros. Nancy is disabled and has no children. Loss per year 786 euros. I can go on like this for a while. These are modal families, families for which CD&V worked very hard at the time, but today we only see the hard figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u146	Mrs Kitir, I am surprised that you refer to the calculations of the ACV. I read a press release from your party last week, in which you said that the loss is only half of what the ACV had calculated. Give us some more time and you too will be convinced that it is not a loss and that all the weeks will be left. There is really no point in referring to the figures of the ACV, as you have questioned them yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u147	I suggest you read the press release again. The government promises 100 euros net per month. Is that 100 euros there yet? No, there is no such thing now, and it will come with a bit of luck for some by the end of the legislature. The charges are gonna go up now. Now the water bill goes up, now the electricity bill goes up, now the long-term sick have to turn in 540 euros. Now the price of diesel goes up, now the price of tobacco goes up and now the price of a beer and a soft drink goes up. Now people feel that in their wallet. Is that a proper burden-sharing? People certainly want to do their part, but on one condition, namely that everyone contributes their share honestly. That is not the case today. Every budget round, every tax shift, comes with burdens for the people, but not for the big assets and the fraudsters. On the contrary, they get a gift almost every time. People have understood that, too. They know very well what that tax shift of yours is all about. Last Friday it appeared that three quarters of the population saw the tax shift as a support for the rich. Your policy is unfair, and people are quite right to come to the streets against such a wealthy government. The protest was carried by all layers of the population. The sad thing is, if a hundred thousand more people are on the streets, you're just looking the other way. That's really unseen. The government's only response to last week's demonstration came from Kris Peeters. He said he'd take the concerns with him. I'm sorry, but I really had to think about someone sitting in a meeting who says he'll take the points, then put the complaints in the drawer and do nothing else with it. Prime Minister, you have even completely ignored the call for justice. If the lobby of the great powers, of the big banks, of the multinationals are calling the alarm, you will immediately take action. Think of the guaranteed wages for the sick. Your coalition agreement stated that you would extend that arrangement to two months. The employers didn't like that expansion. Last year it was postponed. Now the measure is even completely out of the question. That makes people angry, and they're right, because it's not fair. However, we thought that, after the massive call for justice last year, especially CD&V would have understood the signal, that it was really thought that there should be more justice in the policy, that it was really thought that there should be a serious contribution to the great abilities. That is how I remember what you said, Mr Peeters. You understood it was all difficult. You understood that the burdens went up for everyone. You said at the time that this wasn't the whole story and you told us to wait for the tax shift to arrive, of which we would all feel the positive effect. Those were your words. Is the agreed tax shift that positive? Is it a good thing that the burden on labour goes down? Should we find it positive that you increase the VAT on electricity? Should we be positive that you increase the price of tobacco, diesel, beer and soft drinks? Should we be positive about the fact that the large assets should not contribute again? Or should we find it positive that the fraudsters get tax amnesty? In short, should we be positive that the resources for the tax shift should be returned to ordinary citizens? Then you dare to say that this much money has never been raised out of capital. You'll have to dare. Dear CD&V, sometimes I really wonder which one of you can look straight in the mirror. You promised a serious contribution from the great abilities. There isn't one. You also promised an index jump on rental prices after the index jump. There isn't. You also promised measures for workable work after raising the retirement age. There aren't any yet. It is clear that the government's policy is injustice. But it is also poignant to note that this increases inequality. For those who are already struggling today, the invoice increase will be much more palpable than the benefits they can enjoy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u148	Mr President, Mrs Kitir, you are right to point out that inequality has increased in recent years. I thought equality was a very important issue for the socialists. Who has been in the governments over the past few years to deal with this increased inequality? You are talking about taxes here. The following might be interesting to give. You were in those governments, your party was in the government for years. Why didn't you introduce the capital gains tax? Why didn't you?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u149	Mrs Demir, I am happy to answer that. With regard to inequality, do you really think that with the measures you are taking, you are going to eliminate inequality? You ask why the socialists in the previous government did not apply the capital gains tax. Because we didn't agree with Open Vld and CD&V. Just as Open Vld and CD&V could not have formed an agreement with us to run an index jump. That's the difference, Mrs Demir.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u150	Mrs Kitir, as far as inequality is concerned, you say that those left-wing recipes, the recipes that the Socialists have always put forward, have not helped. You're actually admitting that right now. I'm glad you said that. You say that the left-wing recipes have led to inequality, and that is correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u151	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u152	Mr Van der Maelen, you mustn't get so angry. It is very clear to you that inequality has increased over the last 20 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u153	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u154	Your colleague Kitir says that inequality has increased. There is effective inequality. I've never been convinced by the left-wing recipes. Now let the government do it differently. Perhaps that will lead to results. I'll come back to the capital gains tax, Mrs. Kitir. It's actually very easy. You have dominated the government along with the PS for 25 years. Now you're saying that CD&V and Open Vld didn't want that capital gain tax. Do you think it's okay that your party has been a member of the government for 20 years, but should say that it couldn't weigh in on policy? You might want to ask yourself about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u155	Mrs Demir, you are talking about the previous governments, and since I was a member of them, I think it is logical that I should be responsible. First of all, you're talking about inequality. Be honest and read the OECD study. The OECD will explain to you that Belgium, exceptionally, thanks to the presence of the socialists in the government, is a country where inequality has not increased. You know that poverty has not increased in Flanders, yet another exception. One of the few countries where inequality has not increased and where poverty has even fallen slightly, is Belgium, and by extension Flanders. This is evident from the OECD figures. It is therefore not a question of contesting those figures. They even appeared in the newspaper a year ago, in a long and broad way. Secondly, the previous government raised capital. We didn't even do that with pleasure. You will remember that, because you were very opposed to it. The previous government increased the withholding tax to 25%. It wasn't that easy to do that. We have also taken a number of other measures so that we can finance the reduction of costs. The tax increases of the previous government were in corporation tax and withholding tax, nowhere else. Of course, when you make new balances with this government and reduce the index of people who simply have their wages, when you start to reduce pensions for a number of people, you may also ask more from others.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u156	We have also seen the difference with the welfare adjustment. The welfare adjustment was intended to give something at the top of the index. This government takes down the index first, to give back a little bit. If you think it is necessary to do so, we do not think this is necessary, then you should also appeal to the other groups more heavily. That's not what you're doing. You're doing less. That's the difference between one government and another.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u157	Thank you, Mr Vande Lanotte, for your intervention. You have said that it is true that poverty in Flanders has not risen. I can only thank you for that. Where did poverty go up? It happens in those regions in Belgium where the socialists are waving the baton. One may wonder whether in Brussels and Wallonia, where the socialists are in power, this is happening despite or thanks to the socialists in power. What will this government do about it, Mr Vande Lanotte? By reforming social security, which halves the cost of ageing, we are creating room to raise the lowest pensions and benefits to the European poverty line. The fact that today, after twenty-five years of socialists in the government, we still have people who have to live with benefits or pensions under the European poverty line, I ask you: is that despite the socialists in power or because of the socialists in power?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u158	Mr President, I consider the question of whether poverty has risen or fallen to be irrelevant in itself. Poverty is too great and we must work on it. We are also working on this with this government. It was said earlier, but I would like to repeat a few more figures. We are allocating 950 million for the welfare envelope. In the previous legislature, that was 650 million. That's 40% more than the last two years. That is my first point. Secondly, Mrs Kitir, the best way to get out of poverty is to ensure that people have a job. I remember how you stood on this chair when Ford Genk was shut down. You made an appeal to the Prime Minister at the time. You said: 'The people ask, Prime Minister: what are you going to do?'
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u159	That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u160	You asked: what are you going to do? You can ask that question again today! Prime Minister, what are you going to do? How are you going to ensure that employment can increase? How are you gonna make sure the paychecks go down? How are you going to ensure that the companies, which have not invested in Belgium in recent years because we were too expensive, will invest in the future? Prime Minister, what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u161	Mr Beke, in the past, we have always agreed to work to create a favourable environment for employment. During the difficulties in Ford Genk or in sectors particularly sensitive to export, we have each and every time found ways to help at the economic level. Our goal is no different from yours. But in the case of aid, we simply want, and you know that we have called for it every time around the negotiating tables, that they should be as employment-related as possible. The Higher Employment Council and the Planning Office, in particular, have always told us how to be more effective in reducing social contributions. You are also right to say that one of the main ways to combat poverty, which is multifaceted, is to increase the employment rate. That's absolutely true. And it's also about paying a decent salary. Again, as I said this morning, we agree with the objective. But why finance these wage increases and some of the cuts in social contributions on people's backs? Why didn't you go to the capital side? Under the former legislature, together with the MR and the CD&V, we were looking for $7 billion. Of course, we did not agree on all the measures. It's obvious. In each government, there are priorities and compromises. But in any case, it's $7 billion. What you do, what we blame you for, is work to reduce social contributions to increase employment, without guaranteeing job creation. This is not the case for all measures; for the self-employed, this is immediately linked since it takes a first job to benefit from it. But that's the exception. Most of your measures make wage increases on the back of workers. That is what we condemn you and which is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u162	Mr President, when we talk about poverty, it might be good to get some expertise in the debate. This week, someone with a lot of expertise in this area has looked at the measures taken by this government. This expert is the director of the Centre for Social Policy at the University of Antwerp, Bea Cantillon, once co-opted Senator for CD&V. So I think she's an unsuspecting source. I'm not going to read her analysis, I'm just going to read her conclusion. Here it is pretending that it is all getting fantastic and better, but here's her conclusion: "The people at the bottom of society are in danger of losing in three areas: the burden cuts will not bring about any harm for them, the cut is financed by them through higher taxes on consumption, and social benefits for the unemployed and the sick are left behind on workers' incomes. Even though Michel's predecessors failed to reduce poverty, the policy was responsible for its stability. This little glorious standstill is now threatening to turn into a growing gap between the haves and the portot, leading to greater poverty. This isn't just what we say, this is what Bea Cantillon says, former co-opted Senator for CD&V.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u163	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to repeat it for those who may have misunderstood and believe that my call for jobs, jobs, jobs from a few years ago would have changed. In no way have I said that I do not want jobs to be created. On the contrary, the more jobs are created, the better. What I did not call for is that you would place the burden on the workers and the citizens of this country and then promise them that you will give them a job. What I did not ask you is that you would impose an index jump of 2% on those who lost their jobs and who may still be at home with benefits today because they do not yet have a new job, while at the same time ensuring that their rental price goes up. I didn't ask you to do that! I've asked you for jobs so they can make ends meet at the end of the month. That's what I asked you. The question that has actually arisen all day is whether your policy works economically. Does this government's recipe, pruning to bloom, have any effect? Does it bring economic prosperity and a budget that is in order? The answer to that is quite interesting. There is a bit of economic growth, but as the Prime Minister himself said yesterday, it is still below the average of the euro area. Entrepreneurial confidence is not improving either. In Europe, things are getting better, things are getting worse. The gap between public debt and the rest of Europe is also increasing again. Even the European Commission-Juncker, with its investment plan, has finally moved away from the recipe of pruning to grow because it has realised that it is not working. However, your government is stubbornly holding on to that recipe, which is incomprehensible. Is it all doom and torment? No, thank God that's not the case. Your government has also taken some good measures over the past year, for example in the health sector. If you have to go to the doctor, you will have to pay a large amount and then you will have to take the green note to the sickness fund to get some of that amount back. Since 1 October 2015, this is no longer necessary for many people who are struggling; they no longer have to advance that money and pay up to 6 euros for a doctor's visit. You know that we have a proposal on the table to extend this measure to everyone. We do not want any more slips and ask that everyone pays EUR 6 for a doctor's visit. Your measure is therefore a first step in the right direction. We are also pleased that the previous government's fight against social dumping is continuing. No, ladies and gentlemen, we are not too bad to admit that the current government is also taking good measures. In addition, we are making concrete proposals ourselves and giving concrete alternatives. For example, last week we launched the proposal to reduce taxes at work by 10%, to make taxation much easier, but also, and above all, to reopen the debate on fair taxation. For us, the fight for a just tax shift is not buried at all. On the contrary, we will continue to increase the pressure by being the voice of the citizens in Parliament. We will continue to increase the pressure not only by criticising but also by putting forward constructive proposals ourselves. These are proposals for fair taxation, but also proposals for workable work, affordable health care and the strengthening of purchasing power. We have already made proposals on the refugee crisis, which we will continue to do. For example, we made a proposal on access to the labour market or on a compulsory distribution plan. The latter would be a reinforcement for us, as the Prime Minister said yesterday, for the policy that the competent Secretary of State is pursuing today. He seeks many shelters, he recognizes thousands of asylum seekers every month, while respecting international law. We are very constructive in this respect. We hope that the government parties will be as well. No one has anything to do with political games on the hood of people fleeing a war. No one has anything to do with political games in the face of those who show spontaneous solidarity. It doesn't help anyone, nor does it help us to tackle the problem. Moreover, it is certainly not an appropriate response to many's concerns. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude. The result after a year Michel is very clear for the sp.a. The burden was first and foremost placed on the citizens. We had hoped that it would be different after this weekend, but unfortunately that is not the case. On average, people's purchasing power is falling by 638 euros, while the large assets and fraudsters have not yet been asked for a contribution. On the contrary, they were extra pampered. Prime Minister, you have overcome the math error of nearly 1 billion by increasing the tax rate on diesel, tobacco, beer and soft drinks and by a tax amnesty for fraudsters. That's all there is to it. That says everything about the choices this government makes. For the people there is no money, but for the lobbyists there is. It's clear whose side you're on. I'll make you a promise I'll keep. We will continue to oppose this injustice. We are not alone in that. Last year there were 120 000 people on the streets and last week another 100 000 people. That really isn't a small minority. Why doesn't this government listen to them? Why doesn't this government engage in social dialogue? Every time you decide on the major measures, while the social partners can negotiate the points and the decimal points. Even if there's a unanimous agreement, you're gonna throw it in the trash. If necessary, people will keep coming to the streets. We will continue to support that call for justice. However, we will continue to put our own proposals on the table, because there is an alternative, an alternative that does offer people a future perspective. There is an alternative that makes young people once again believe that they can have it better than their parents. There is an alternative that will ensure that the coming years will also be good times. You don't choose that alternative. You can choose justice, Prime Minister, but you do not, and that is why you cannot rely on us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u164	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today we have at least one certainty: what the government is presenting to us is not a tax turn. It is at most a fiscal year. The table you gave us is proof of this: we are talking about 2015, 2016... Everything is set in fifteen lines and maximum thirty digits. It's not a tax turn. If we were really in a fiscal turn, you would have opened the discussion on notional interests, you would have blown up the taboo of corporate cars. I remember interviews prior to the debates that took place within the government. The minister who considered the replacement of company cars by the increase in net wages as a strong focus of tax reform is not there today, but in Poland. Today, we are sure that there is no tax turn. You have not dared to open this debate. Nor have you dared to face the real issue of fiscal speculation. It is not the EUR 28 million, out of a reform that you are planning to reform to the tune of EUR 7 billion, or even 0.5%, that will change anything. Prime Minister, you had the opportunity to put on an equal footing the income from capital and the income from labour, and you wasted this opportunity. If we were in the middle of a real fiscal turn, like the one that ecologists defend, you would have ensured that not all those losers, all those left behind, all those forgotten of your tax shift: the young people, of which you speak in terms of sanction and exclusion, the over 55s, those looking for a job, those who are unable to work, to whom you speak in terms of obligation and coercion. Where's the project, where's the hope for these people? I do not know if you know this figure, but in any case it strikes me: in Belgium, 19 000 people are now in burn out. Many of them are over 55. The number of disabilities and disabilities has increased by 20 per cent over five years. This is the result of pressures in the labour market. The political choices you are defending here, which are confirmed by the decisions you have just made, will further exacerbate the social consequences for these people. On the other hand, these forgotten people – young people, women, those over 55, those looking for a job – will indeed suffer, and this is already the case, the index jump and the taxes you are considering. The hundred euros, they won't get them. Not even the forty euros. They are outside your reflections and your field of vision. The ecologists have proposed – remember the debates we had in July – a solution to integrate them through the tax credit. But you didn't want it. You left them on the side. From a structural point of view, if a fiscal shift had been envisaged, it would have been necessary to consider that social security should be refinanced differently. I am speaking to Minister Peeters, whom I thought was sensitive to the question. However, this possibility has also been set aside. Barely consider a potential return effect. Minister of the Budget, I hope that you will not maintain the course set by the government. The feedback effects are not only positive. When you reduce social benefits and exclude young people from integration opportunities, you increase the need for subsequent coverage. In doing so, you yourself create the conditions for future difficulties. Plan in three or four years. Social impacts will be such that you will again experience a problem of financing social security. Your reflection illustrated by your budget tables has completely neglected this aspect. That is what we are also opposed to this reform, which is not a tax shift, which is not a tax turn. Mr. Ducrame, we said so. My party president had the opportunity to say it on television as early as Sunday. Not everything has to be rejected. Of course! Let us act with discernment! The measures on the first job, which you noted by repeating what she had said about this first job, are good measures. We will support them. We have said it and we will say it again. Mr. Ducrame, I will go even further. If we take the text that was distributed at the end of yesterday's debate and go to page 18, you will notice that there is a small sentence that has drawn our attention positively. The Prime Minister said yesterday: "Finally and above all, the granting of automatic rights and the raising of social minimums is a priority". I am challenging you, Mr Ducrame, because I am going even further than we have been able to say about the positive measures that we will be supporting, in relation to the first job, for the self-employed and for SMEs. My colleagues, Evita Willaert and Georges Gilkinet, put on the table a proposal that translates in concrete terms the automation of access to social rights. We will discuss this tomorrow in the context of consideration. This proposal translates at least one sentence of your government agreement. There's still room to sign it. If you want the dialogue to be in both directions, here is a good example. I am basing myself on part of the text of the Government's statement, which I stress positively, and it is concretely reflected in this proposal. You're free to join in. You're welcome. We'll give you a copy. All of this to tell you that we have indeed been able to identify positive elements. They must, of course, be put into practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u165	You're naive!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u166	Willingness! Possibilities, as my colleague Kristof Calvo would say, because we have to change things. We can't be satisfied with the situation. In addition, on 17 October, World Day for the Fight against Poverty, we want to put into practice, through proposals, these elements which, for the moment, are elements of sentence, verb in the government's text. The ecologists formulate and translate them. Mr Ducrame, our colleagues are willing to explain them to you if necessary or to show you the text. These words are not just for Mr Ducarme, but as he was the first to speak in the gallery, noting that we have been able to support certain elements, I wanted to expand on the point. On the other hand, the Environment and Climate chapter of your statement – not of government (even if it is the same logic) but of your statement held yesterday in this forum – is something to disappoint us. We are one month and a few days from the beginning of the Paris International Climate Conference. We are five days away from the last pre-negotiations in Bonn. You tell us yesterday that you fully assume your responsibilities. You have to be serious, Prime Minister! What are your commitments? What are Belgium's commitments to the Paris International Conference today? There is not even agreement yet; there is still no discussion with the regions on the distribution, but beyond this vacuum, what is your ambition in this area? What is the consistency of this sentence with your choice to reduce SNCB's mobility by 2.1 billion over the legislature? How can you be credible? How dare you say that you will take responsibility for the climate issue and maintain within your 2015-2016 budget, and the following budgets, the budgetary restrictions you are operating on the SNCB? Inconsistent, you have the nerve to write about SNCB, in the text you said here yesterday: "We also need to develop train transport". Hat down! "We must dare to develop train transport." At the same time, you will withdraw €2.1 billion from SNCB. Explain to us! How will you meet the needs of commuters? Trains do not arrive on time, they do not find seats in them, they see the windows closing - on 1st October last, different windows have still been closed. How can you be consistent with your commitment to climate, to develop train transport, and reduce the allocation of SNCB by 2.1 billion? Mr Van Quickenborne, the minister is not going to have to help us do that! But you are right: we must add the 900 million that the Di Rupo government has also withdrawn under the previous legislature. I agree with you: a total of EUR 3 billion if we add up what was decided by the previous government to what is decided by it. Even in the Open Vld programme, it was stated that to be able to meet not only an economic challenge but also a public health challenge, it was necessary to reduce congestion and support the development of public transport. And this translates into a budget cut of 2.1 billion plus 900 million for SNCB. It's an impossible equation!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u167	Mr President, I would like to intervene because we are creating the illusion that, in any case, a better SNCB is being given more money. That's the story they bring here. People want to throw more money there and then things will get better. What is not being said here today is that SNCB is already costing taxpayers EUR 3 billion today. There is no country in Europe that invests so much in public transport and gets it back. The challenges are great. However, may I point out that this government has succeeded in systematically improving the punctuality of trains? That is the reality! Those are the numbers! Can I point out that this government has managed to set up a new society, in duality, and that it is now finally going to hell? Those who think they can solve the problems by throwing more and more money at them are wrong. SNCB will never function like this. Despite the difficulties, Infrabel and SNCB are today led by two skilled people who are trying to make the best of it. I believe that this is the right path to follow. In the past, spending more and more money has just made things worse. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u168	Mr President, it is touching to hear how the majority is trying to make a green story. Of course, you have a knot of a contradiction. More than EUR 4 billion goes to people with a company car and only EUR 3 billion goes to SNCB. You can sell a lot, but you really can't sell that as a greening. It is shameful what you are doing, because you are doing the opposite of all the countries around us that have carried out a tax review. Open Vld now finds that she has spilled money herself in the past, money that went to SNCB. Liberals need to take the train a little more often, because travel times have been extended in order not to have to admit that people arrive at their destination year after year slower. Everyone is working hard on that, but not this majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u169	Mr Van Quickenborne, I would like to put myself at the level of people and give you an example. I know you're from Courtrai, but I don't have the math from this town. So, for example, to go from Tournai to Liège, two years ago, it took two hours and fifteen minutes by train. Today, it takes two hours and fifty-three minutes! Do you think that with this we will encourage people to abandon the car and take the train? This is related to the fact that there is less and less maintenance and that commercial speed has had to be reduced. We were 85 km/h, we're now 65 km/h. You plead that we make a switch from cars to the train, it's impossible! You know the situation as well as I do. I suppose you take the train a little less but, nevertheless, you can pay attention to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u170	Colleague, I think you have really misunderstood Mr Van Quickenborne. You'll link the wagons to the train. The essence is that the concept of services has been forgotten in this domain for decades. They've always pumped a lot of money into it. SNCB has been given a structure that is no longer clear. This structure needs to be made more efficient. The efficiency gains will have to reduce the amount of financial resources available. I believe that we want to keep the same problem in mind, in particular that the passenger should be given more services. That's exactly the drill that's been made. It is not because money is being pumped in that it will benefit the traveller. We need to take a thorough look at the structure of SNCB. The role of trade unions in recent years must not be underestimated. The ambitions of this government are very high. The point that Mr Van Quickenborne has just made is that SNCB is not at the service of pumping money into it. There is a need for reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u171	I can follow you on part of the reasoning. Indeed, on the issue of efficiency and effectiveness, there is work to be done. On that side, I can agree. And in relation to certain expenditure decided by previous governments, indeed. Prestigious spending, investments that were not the most relevant, I agree. But admit that with the amount requested as an effort at SNCB, it makes impossible the vision we would like to have. I would like to recall a single figure. This is a figure from the FEB. In 2011, FEB had calculated the cost of traffic congestion in Belgium at EUR 8 billion. If you could reduce that cost, if only a quarter, then you could recover the money implicitly to finance a real economic turn and a real turn in terms of health. My colleagues, Muriel Gerkens and Anne Dedry, will be speaking on this issue just now. Prime Minister, I thought you left us, but you're still here, that's fine. I would like to question you about the statements made against journalists during President Erdogan's visit, but I will not do so because I think you have found the right words, which make it possible to turn the page. But we must remain constantly vigilant about the various founding elements of our democracy and I will repeat your words: "freedom of expression is above all in a democracy". I can only support you on this and thank you for putting things together. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that no, this government is not on the right track. This government has chosen to lead us into an impasse. It's the choice of austerity, it's the choice of a country that closes down, grabs itself and abandons any environmental ambition. This choice leads to an impasse and the ecologists in the north, south and center of the country will continue to fight against this choice and to propose an alternative that combines economic development, quality of life, financial regulation, respect for the planet, for all the inhabitants, whether they are from the north, the south, the centre of the country, or they come from elsewhere, and be welcome here too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u172	Mr President, Prime Minister, for our group, which likes the parliamentary debate, the policy statement is a very important day, a day which should happen earlier in the year. Our group has made a proposal on this and we are pleased that the Conference of Presidents wishes to start the debate on the parliamentary calendar and the length of the recess with us. The policy statement is also an important moment for you as Prime Minister. It is an opportunity as Prime Minister, as the father of all compatriots, to seek out people and conquer the heads and hearts of Belgium for the necessary reforms. I'm telling you openly that you missed that opportunity. You didn't do it. I could quote from headlines and evaluations of your policy statement, but I assume that you have read them, and I will not repeat them. I am very sorry about that, because people need to be convinced just today. Just today, this country and this continent are longing for leadership and ambition. We have just had the Greek crisis, we have the refugee crisis and we have necessary reforms in the areas of taxation, careers and pensions. Just then, we need a prime minister to stand up and show his spirit and leadership. It has been quieter than last year, which I welcome, but it is not the desire, the inspiration that this country deserves. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, last year I concluded my Maiden speech as leader of the political group with a plea for a balance between optimism and pessimism. A balance between naive optimism, to which Mr Dewael and his liberal family occasionally suffer, we live in exciting times, everything is possible, you have everything in your own hands, and a fearful, ungrateful pessimism, the conspiracy of fear, in which the colleagues of N-VA, Mr Vuye, are today very skilled. You didn't find that balance yesterday. I have seen a Prime Minister suffering from blind and obligatory optimism, regardless of reality, over the heads of many compatriots, blind to the situations to which Mr Kitir referred in her speech in a very convincing manner. You are deaf and blind to the call for justice, which sounds very loud, which sounds louder than just a hundred thousand blue, green or red hoops last week, which sounds across borders, the so-called fault line between employers and employees.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u173	Mrs Demir wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u174	Mr President, Mrs Demir's reply does not change my speaking time, because I have very little time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u175	Mr Calvo, your time is being stopped. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u176	Mr Calvo, you begin your speech with the fact that our Prime Minister has not expressed his policy statement with optimism. He wasn't obsessing. That lusty and always positive may be something for Green, but what matters is that at last there is a prime minister and a government who are taking action. The first signals are there. Look at the National Bank. Look at other institutions that indicate that the number of vacancies is increasing, that unemployment is falling. I think a prime minister with decisiveness is much more important than a prime minister who should be obsessed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u177	Mrs Demir, you have not quite understood me. I just accused the Prime Minister of a mandatory, exaggerated optimism, even a piece of world weirdness. I would like to thank you very much for your commitment to our group. I will illustrate this world weirdness with three quotes from the Prime Minister. You have finished with a New Year's letter of good intentions. We want, we want, we want, we want, 37 times we want. Let me give you three examples. Firstly, we do not want to favour anyone, says Charles Michel at the time of tax reductions for AB Inbev, the diamond sector and Electrabel. A first example of the world alienation of our Prime Minister. Secondly, we want to support the weak. Excuse me, this government confronts us with a historic record of wage-earners after the drastic measures on unemployment and waiting payments. That came out just before the summer. You are pushing people into poverty and poverty is not working, Prime Minister. A third example, the most humorous of all, is that this majority is solid and united. That's not serious anymore. Yesterday Minister De Block was bullied because of the soda tax. Today's homework on speculation tax isn't ready. What will it be tomorrow in Charles Michel's bickering house, that doesn't get well?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u178	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u179	Indeed, today social consultation, Mr Frédéric has just said so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u180	Colleague Calvo, your whining about presents is getting seriously corny. I would like to answer two questions. Firstly, this government is the first to blackmail Luxembourg; anyone who refuses to contribute to solidarity is finally being effectively tackled. Secondly, when it comes to presents, you keep talking about the diamond. I would remind you that with this reform we are collecting 70 million dollars from the diamond sector. That's more than three years Di Rupo. When it comes to gifts to the diamond industry, Mr Calvo, please address the right people and not us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u181	I'll come back later with our tax proposals. I want to tell you which glasses we look at our country with. Mr Vuye, you don't have to applaud the Red Devils, you don't have to be merry. But what I do not want, ladies and gentlemen, is for Mr Vuye to come here and tell us that Belgium is a sick country and that our Prime Minister is applauding such a type. Belgium is not a sick country, Mr Vuye. My grandparents did not come here in 1960 because Belgium is sick, but because Belgium is a beautiful country, a quirky country, a country with many possibilities, where people have been sweating for decades. And then you come here to say that Belgium is sick, is a terrible country. No one is obliging you to sit in the Federal Parliament. No one is obliging you to live in our country. These are the glasses with which we, as ecologists, look at our country: there is a great deal of fear, there is much more possible than what the government is proposing to us. We like to mention these positive things by name, and I will give you three, and I will say three positive things to which the majority decides. Firstly, there are the purchasing power measures for the self-employed. I agree with you, we need to get rid of the idea that self-employed people are swimming in the money. I looked it up again, 15% of our self-employed lives below the poverty line. So these purchasing power measures are fantastic, fine, we will support them, go even further. Secondly, there is the measure of gold recruitment, the golden employee. That is a very good measure. We support making first-time employees cheaper. Thirdly, Mr Nollet has already referred to it: our excellent colleague, the real social conscience of Parliament, Mr Gilkinet, has, together with Mrs Willaert, tabled a motion for a resolution on the automatic granting of social rights. It was in your speech, congratulations, and we hope to make it work. These are positive points, which I would very much like to mention. The economic engine is kicking in. The government's ambition is jobs, jobs, jobs and growth, growth, growth. However, I would like to refer once again to the first page of the Prime Minister's statement of government, in which he himself admits in writing that we are not in a good position to do so. The Prime Minister of this enterprising government indicated the following in relation to our economic development, after twenty or thirty years, according to Mr Vuye even after 200 years of socialism. Besides, nowadays a professor of Constitutional Law doesn't even need to know his history. (Protests from Mr Vuye) Indeed, I am mistaken, it was a statement by Mrs Smeyers. I am glad that you distance yourself from Mrs Smeyers, Mr Vuye. If you now distance yourself from the unconstitutional proposal on child benefit, you will increase in my respect. I have another reference for the entrepreneurial government, the government of economic development! Mr Michel himself has to admit, in black and white in his speech, that our country's economic development is below the average of the euro area. Fortunately there is the ECB, fortunately there is the weakening of the euro, fortunately there are the falling oil prices. The economic development in our country is not due to your team, Prime Minister, but to your team. Our group has a triple criticism. Mr Dewael, you don't have to believe my speech. I read to you: "This is 0.2 percent below the expected average for the euro area." That comes from Charles Michel, not directly a member of the left-wing opposition, nor the victim of twenty years of socialism and all the other things you have debated in the chair. By the way, I will say even more important things later, about the fact that your fiscal reform does not look like much. I return to our three points of criticism. First of all, I endorse Mrs Kitir's testimony: the government is unjust. That was our message last year in the chair and I repeat it. The Prime Minister's good news show doesn't change that. Budgetary efforts are concentrated on people who work, on families, on people who have a hard time and on people who are forced to benefit from benefits. I would like to say a few words about that. We have talked a lot about working Belgians here. It has been very little about people who are unlucky in our society. This is an expression of your social project. You are not talking about it or far too little, but people who are unlucky in our country must first apologize a hundred times at the time of Charles Michel and then say thank you fifty times for the charity and for the benefit. Really consider those people, having an eye for and empathy with people who are unlucky, I don't see that. I do not see this in the pre-summer tables, in which it becomes clear that you, Mr Peeters, will save an additional EUR 1.5 billion in social security. But let us not forget Mr Peeters' tax shift: first EUR 28 million, then EUR 34 million of speculation tax or EUR 6 million extra versus EUR 1.5 billion of savings in social security. That is my first criticism. My second criticism is the following. I agree with Mr Nollet when he calls the government a pre-Al Gore government: she has no ambition in terms of climate and environment. Thirdly, the government lacks a leader, a captain on the ship. Allow me to develop the three points of criticism. Unfairness is my first point of criticism. 2016 will be the year of the index jump. It is an example of the tax increase you impose on people who work, people who have a hard time and families. We have already discussed the level of the speculative tax of EUR 30 million. Mr Van Rompuy, you are writing now. The majority is gathering everything together. It will certainly receive EUR 2.4 billion of capital taxes: the favour regime of the diamond sector, the measures for the intercommunals and the fight against tax fraud. I will not contradict those figures; you will get there, thanks to your fantasy. But they are not capital taxes of EUR 2.4 billion. The most important thing has not even been said about the speculative tax. It is not only scandalously little; it is also the ordinary investor who will pay it, while professional investors and companies escape it. Once again, Mr Dewael, this is an example of the fact that your tax policy does not want to support ordinary working people at all, but much too much strengthens the financial interests of the 1% capital assets.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u182	Mr President, excuse me for interrupting Mr Calvo. He explained to us just now that he perceived a difference between the tables that were distributed a few months ago and the tables that we obtained yesterday, of EUR 700 million on capital tax. Mr Calvo, would we not benefit from deepening this problem? When I look at the details of the measures that make it possible to reach the 2.4 billion additional capital taxes that are announced in the government's Powerpoint document, I can't find them. First of all, I see the Cayman tax for 430 million. They quadrupled the initial budget performance. Secondly, 230 million for the intercommunals, but we have still not been told in the Finance Committee, despite all the questions that we have asked, how to achieve this. We also dispute the wording that places them in the capital tax. Then, $500 million from the liquidation reserve, except that what goes as a special contribution on the liquidation reserve no longer goes into a movable prepayment. The tax administration has written it, we have repeated it to the government, but it does not take it into account. Then, the 150 million contribution from the financial sector. We are already seeing the banks and the insurance companies explain that they do not agree. How long will you stand up to their pressures? I move on to the third pillar, since the change in taxation on pension savings is a measure of anticipation and not a structural measure, as we have already explained. We wonder what the revenue of $390 million from institutional real estate funds comes to do there. Then, $28 million on taxable capital gains within six months. What happens if people sell after six months and one day? And I could go on like this. All this to tell you, Mr Calvo, that of the 2.4 billion, 730 million revenue is certain and structural. The rest is wind. That is why this tax shift reform is inconclusive. It is for many reasons, but also for that reason.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u183	Mr Van Rompuy has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u184	Finally, Eric Van Rompuy on the tax shift. We've been watching the blog every day this summer, but we haven't read anything about it. Now we'll know if it's a good tax shift or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u185	Mr Calvo, I am going to stick to your figures, because you are always calling figures, figures, figures. This morning, you said you were missing 700 million in the capital tax. That is in contradiction with the table distributed by the government in July. I looked up that July table. I keep track of all this, because as chairman of the committee, one must have a good memory. Well, according to the government, non-work income would be 1.4 billion in July. What was in there? The Cayman tax for 260 million, the withholding tax for 355 million, the real estate funds for 286 million, speculation for 28 million, better collection for 125 million, dividend and monopoly interest for 180 million, VAT on social housing for 20 million and the fight against fraud for 175 million. What was not included and what is in the 4.2 billion? These are the measures taken under the Tax Programme Act of December and the Tax Programme Act of July. For example, the stock market fee was not included. It was already approved and implemented. Furthermore, it is the bank tax and the diamond tax. Cayman tax went to 430 million. If I have understood the Minister of Finance correctly, this has to do with the fact that the Cayman tax will be refined on a number of points and we will have more revenue by bringing forward tax regulation. Mr Laaouej, we have discussed the tax on the intercommunals, the 230 million. We'll see what that gives us. This has been discussed in detail in committee. Mr Calvo, if I add all this up, and I withdraw the fight against tax fraud, because it was also deducted, then I will get 4 billion, 200 million less than what the government has calculated in its table.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u186	Four billion?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u187	200 million out of the 2.4 billion in capital.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u188	For us, it could also be 4.2 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u189	In July, the government budgeted about 1.4 billion as revenue. The tax shift is actually about the measures that this government will implement in the coming years. For example, the increase in the deduction for flat-rate professional costs is also included in taxation, amounting to 3.2 billion. The bill checks out. I really don't see why you're talking about the 700 million. If I just add it up, there's that money. If I count well and I add the fight against tax fraud... after all, measures have already been taken for this. The Minister of Finance has recruited a number of people for this purpose and tax provisions have been drawn up. If I take that, I'll get about the 2.4 billion you're questioning. Mr President, Mr Calvo, the last thing I want to say is this. You always come here during the plenary session with a matraquage of figures. When we look at the figures afterwards, they turn out to be wrong. On the contrary, they are your improvisation. You are trying to put the debates in the wrong light. I have now just looked up what you said this morning for the camera sets, because your remark was for the camera sets, namely that the government would have miscalculated for a sum of EUR 700 million. However, the government did not miscalculate. Her calculations are accurate from A to Z.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u190	Mr President, Mr Van Rompuy, we already knew that there was something like "Kamikaze Servais'. However, there is also something like "Kamikaze Van Rompuy". For the first time, you are expressing your views on the tax shift, and in order to give it full support. Mr Van Rompuy, I am pleased that you have said that the fight against fraud must also be included in the amount of EUR 2.4 billion. After all, ladies and gentlemen, what is in the PowerPoint of Friday? It contains EUR 2.4 billion of capital in a first list. In addition, there is another source of financing for capital taxes, namely EUR 525 million to combat fraud. So we're gonna have to work this out. Second, what I predicted will come true. For the current majority, everything is capital tax. Everything that looks a little bit like justice has been translated as capital tax: cayman tax, anti-fraud, intercommunals. Eventually, the latter will raise citizens' energy bills. Everything is for Eric Van Rompuy these days. In this way, I will also amount to EUR 2.4 billion. I admit that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u191	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u192	Mr Van Rompuy, that, of course, is how you get there. If all the new revenues and measures that smell of justice are added up, we will of course amount to EUR 2.4 billion. I didn't deny that. However, you will never come to an amount of EUR 2.4 billion of capital taxes and a fair contribution from the largest assets. You can do as much hocus pocus as you like. In this way, however, you will never get the sum of EUR 2.4 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u193	Mr President, Mr Calvo, you claim that I am putting everything together and that I am adding capital taxes. You are referring, among other things, to the Cayman tax. However, if there is one load on power, that is the caiman tax. The Minister explained this ten or fifteen times and took a return of 3%. This is subject to 25% of taxes. I'm resuming it. It's about money invested abroad and in offshore havens. It's about bills. That's the caiman tax. If there's one load on the power, it's the caiman tax. Otherwise, I can't understand what you're talking about. Mr Calvo, if you are talking about figures, I would like you to say exactly what you think. I will not go into your own proposals now. The sitting may not know, but last year Ecolo-Groen found 12 billion worth of capital by means of a capital tax. Mr Calvo, you said at that time that every Belgian homeowner's house would be taken into account in the assets. So he wanted to tax all homeowners. That's how I can get $8 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u194	I expected to see the diamond tax also resumed in 2.4 billion. To the point where they are! Mr Van Rompuy, do you seriously think that the revenue from the Cayman tax, the transparency tax, could be multiplied by four without any justification? Do you really think this is a credible way to present us with a budget? I think you're more reasonable than that. We need to explain how you can quadruple, in less than a year, the revenue from the Cayman tax. You have been told how much this tax is a passory because its application rules contain loopholes that will allow the people concerned to adapt to avoid falling into its scope. Everyone says, read the tax literature! They are already busy setting up tax schemes to escape them. You read, like us, the records of the tax administration. On the liquidation reserve, you know very well that the perverse effect of the contribution is to reduce the income of the personal prepayment because what is put into the liquidation reserve is not distributed. You have a problem here too! You will also believe the government when it says that an intermunicipal tax is a capital tax. At this rate, put all corporate taxes under the banner of capital tax! Mr Van Rompuy, I refer you to the work we have had in the Committee on Finance: the tax revenues that are withheld from capital taxes are not on the way, either because of their qualification or because of their modality or because of their budget estimates. I'm not the one who says it, it's the tax administration. In the end, the government does not take into account the notes of its own departments except in one case, that of the occult commissions on which the government had first stated that they would pay 30 million, whereas the Court of Auditors and the administration then demonstrated that this would cost 113 million. You followed this opinion to the adjustment. But this is the only identifiable case. On the other hand, you are in denial of reality and you are inflating revenue because you need to find political balances within government, since the CD&V cannot be content with just taxes on consumption; it also needs a little something on capital! Unfortunately, the baudrouch is going to deflate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u195	Mr Laaouej, with regard to what the Cayman tax can bring, I must admit that this has been discussed several times in the committee. Three important factors explain the difference between the first amount advanced and the amount currently reported. First, the first calculations were made on a limited basis of tax havens; Switzerland and Luxembourg were not included. You will still admit that it makes a difference to include these two countries. Secondly, the OECD rules have, among other effects, limited opportunities to play with money, which will certainly help. Thirdly, we will organise interaction with regulation, which is very important. These elements, as you know very well, will strengthen each other. This is the main explanation for the difference between the figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u196	Mr Calvo, I suggest that you continue your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u197	This will certainly be discussed in the Committee on Finance, but I note that in the meantime, for the CD&V working group on fair taxation, just about anything can go ahead for a capital tax. I regret that, Mr Van Rompuy. If you had a little more hair on your teeth and developed a backbone, and if Mr Beke were to use his political talent and electorate, there would be a lot of possibilities in this country when it comes to capital tax. I come to a second point of criticism, the zero ambition on the environment and climate. My colleague Nollet has already given a number of examples. I believe that on the eve of the Paris climate conference, we must do more than this government is offering us. The system of commercial vehicles has been mentioned. The investments made by SNCB were mentioned. I also want to bring dieselgate into the debate. I was surprised, Prime Minister, that you did not mention it. It is a little along the lines of your government, which has doubts about its position in this matter. Mr Peeters shakes no. I've been through the talks with Mrs De Block. You were there, too. You were overreacting to the good intentions, as we know you, but Mrs De Block called on me to file a complaint myself when I was talking about a criminal charge for the damage suffered and the additional costs in the health insurance. That is the clearest statement I have heard from this government about dieselgate. However, there will be an ad hoc follow-up committee on our question. This Parliament has already shown that good work can be done in such committees. My chairman has just said that this is the dioxin crisis of the motor vehicle industry. Let us take this as an opportunity to move forward. I come to a third point of criticism.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u198	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u199	Mr Van Biesen, in our group people can choose for themselves. That is not to be decreed as Mr Dewael did. Nor is it like the Prime Minister, who takes a run-up and increases his volume, so that the majority knows that there must be applause. We experienced the five applause during the State of the Union itself. This is not the case with us, it is up to people to choose. My third point of criticism is that this government lacks a leader. I will illustrate this in concrete terms in the light of the refugee crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been able to see with me that the Prime Minister has devoted a number of sentences to this. If that text is implemented, it is thought that there is a technocrat. I note that Peter Sagan's victory speech, as world champion cycling, bears witness to more humanity, courage, warmth and openness than our Prime Minister's statement on the refugee crisis. I note that you have had the party chairmen monopolize the debate over the last few weeks. I note that the party chairman of the largest Flemish party in that debate is more like Viktor Orban than Angela Merkel and acts in fear, set people against each other and, instead of saying that he understands the uncertainty and starts to work with it, wants to feed fear and uncertainty. Then there should be a prime minister standing up. Then there should be an Angela Merkel standing up who says "Wir purchase tie." No, we get technocracy and a number of words like "not naive".
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u200	You are talking about courage, humanity and warmth, words that we can all endorse, but in this refugee crisis, which happens to Belgium and many European countries, people are explicitly asking everyone to do their part. You are also active in your own city, Mechelen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u201	I know what you're gonna say.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u202	What are your city's efforts to tackle the refugee crisis? What is the contribution your city makes to receiving asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u203	Mr. Beke, I have no problem with that. Colleagues, I am now texting my mayor that Theo Francken thinks that Mechelen's N-VA should do more. I'm texting my mayor now that the CD&V party chairman thinks that CD&V should do more in Mechelen, with great pleasure. That is not zero, Mr Francken. Steps are being taken. If this federal government tells my city to do more, I agree. I'll say the same in the city council. I invite Mr Francken to say this with a great deal of attention to his fellow party members. I have no problem with that. My point was this, Mr Beke. In this respect, I would also like to join the discourse of Mr Verherstraeten and Mr Dewael, because I liked their language more. I don't want to look up polemics unnecessarily and look up contradictions in this hemisphere that aren't there. There is a clear contradiction between the way in which Mr De Wever and Mr Vuye talk about this and the way in which we talk about it. The question I would like to put to the Prime Minister is not only about policy measures or the number of reception places, but also about the language and attitude with which this dossier is addressed. I know we can't solve all these problems here. I understand the uncertainty very much. Magicians are also concerned about this. I'm not jumping over that lightly. The only thing I want to say to our Prime Minister is that he, much more than a group leader of an opposition party or a Mechelen city council member, can bring the troops together. In that difficult and sensitive file, he can make a difference and connect people, not more, but certainly not less. Prime Minister, I expect a much more active Prime Minister than I have seen in recent weeks. I wanted to give you that message in this hemisphere.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u204	Mr President, I am a little surprised that Mr Beke is suddenly asking what efforts the city of Mechelen is making. I don't understand. The Secretary of State says Mechelen doesn't do anything. Well, and I can only speak from experience at some point I was contacted by the federal government, through the State Secretary, with the announcement that the government might decide to open an asylum centre in my city. I think that at that time I acted as a mayor should; if the federal government believes that this can help with the solution, we should do so. This is what I don't understand. The Secretary of State says Mechelen doesn't do anything. I assume that the Secretary of State has not therefore decided to set up an asylum centre in Mechelen. Or am I wrong? Were any questions asked from the federal government to Mechelen and did Mechelen reply to them? How am I supposed to interpret this? If the Secretary of State says that Mechelen receives zero people, I assume that the Secretary of State has never asked Mechelen that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u205	Mr Bonte, if that's what you're assuming, you're mistaken. The question was asked to everyone. We have addressed a call to all local authorities throughout the country, on both sides of the language border, and this on a voluntary basis. A great deal of solidarity and interest was shown. I have also spoken about one extra family and in several places that was answered positively. I believe that we should not repeat the debate of the Mechelen City Council, but the number of shelters in the city of Mechelen is currently zero.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u206	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u207	That's true. Do you know better than I do?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u208	Mr. Francken... [[noodle]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u209	Mr Bonte has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u210	I do not think we should make this a city council, but it is Mr Beke who brought it up. Mr Francken, the city of Vilvoorde has been organising voluntary reception of asylum seekers for many years. We have a LOI, a number of which have been completed, but are now being rebuilt. The federal government has said that Vilvoorde is already doing a great deal voluntarily, but that there is also a need for a temporary emergency shelter in Vilvoorde. We have agreed to this, and we have said that if that is the decision of the federal government, we will implement it. Mr Secretary of State, I have two questions. First of all, has it been considered or has it been decided to build an emergency shelter in Mechelen, where Kazerne Dossin is located? By the way, that would not be symbolically insignificant. Secondly, there is a lack of clarity as to the number of reception places. I think it might be useful for the debate to get an overview of the number of reception places and where they are today. I suspect that's what Fedasil has at his disposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u211	I think that is best discussed when we discuss the powers of Secretary of State Francken later in the evening.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u212	Mr President, N-VA and CD&V ask what Mechelen is doing. My question is what Antwerp does.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u213	Mr Calvo, I suggest you use your last minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u214	Mr President, I am very pleased with the interest, particularly among N-VA's colleagues, in the choice in Mechelen. I hope this will see through too. Mr Francken, you cannot attend the city council, but it was said very clearly there that if there is a specific question, we will deal with it. Don't hesitate to convey that message. The local agreements have also been strengthened. My appeal to the Prime Minister was not to leave that debate to the party chairmen. I think the Prime Minister can play an excellent role in this. Finally, a double call. The debate in this Parliament is sometimes spicy, which is not bad, but has not always been as productive as it could have been in the past year. I think it is a challenge for all of us, both majority and opposition, to break down some walls between majority and opposition in the coming year. Our group has put forward a number of proposals over the past year, from small to large. I am thinking of Mr Van Hecke's proposal to make the opinion of the Council of State public, of Mr Gilkinet's and Mr Willaert's Tandem plan, and of our new MP, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre's proposal to encourage investment in green technology. On such small and sometimes large matters, we should be able to achieve results beyond the limits of majority and opposition in the coming year in order to demonstrate that there is much more possible than just what is contained in the government agreement, the budget and budgetary adjustments. Finally, Prime Minister, when I am abroad, I do not say, like Mr Vuye, that I live in a sick country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u215	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u216	Mr Vuye, if you mind, I should like to apologize for that, but it is a form of amicality and spontaneousity that prevails in our group and it is absolutely not a lack of respect. If you have any doubts about this, it is clear. I'm rounding up. I was almost done if Mr Vuye hadn't interrupted me. When I am abroad, Prime Minister, I tell you that I live in a beautiful country led by a young Prime Minister. You're right about that on the chest. You say you belong to a young and ambitious generation. Our appeal is to make that happen and let it be more than hollow words and phrases. To a young, ambitious, reform-minded Prime Minister with climate ambition, with a justice agenda, we would be delighted to give confidence and applaud in the gallery. We cannot give confidence to a prime minister who looks very much like his predecessors, with a lot of old recipes, which advocate a socially unfair policy. That is why we will vote against tomorrow with great conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u217	Mr. President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen, the challenges facing our country are enormous and require significant reforms at all levels. There has been very little talk about Europe today. For us, however, the answer to these various issues should also come from a stronger Europe on the international scene, less intergovernmental - and therefore more autonomous and coherent - but also more political and accountable to its citizens. We need more Europe. Otherwise, there will be no more, as Chancellor Merkel, President Hollande or Guy Verhofstadt have said to the European Parliament. If Europe loses its substance, it will no longer be able to be effective where it should be, and it will continue to lose the confidence of the citizens. I know, Prime Minister, that you share this view. And I hope that's the case with all the components of your majority. My group will support you in all your initiatives or initiatives to strengthen Europe's role as a guarantor of the well-understood interests of its more than 500 million inhabitants. Of course, we cannot expect more today than it can offer. The most beautiful boy in the world can only give what he has – it says to change the adage somewhat, because I find it very sexist. That's why we're here. I am also convinced that we can broadly agree on the challenges that Belgium must face: creating economic activity and employment to bring about meaning and well-being, sanitizing our public finances so as not to burden future generations, reforming our pension system to sustain it in a context of increasing life expectancy and not economic growth, assuming the sustainability of our social model, fighting terrorism and pursuing a strong and ambitious policy to meet climate challenges. Like you, I am convinced that, in order to do so, efforts must be called for, otherwise we will not be able to seize these opportunities or counter these threats. These efforts must be seen as an investment in the future. But for them to be acceptable and, more importantly, accepted, trust is necessary. Without confidence, there is no investment. Without investments or inefficient investments, we will not be able to achieve the objective. Without confidence, we will not be able to meet these challenges. This confidence is needed in an equitable distribution among all of the effort and the fruits of effort. After a year of parliament, you have failed to recreate that confidence and legitimize the considerable efforts you have called upon the public. In my view, you have failed both in terms of efficiency and fairness. The first example of this is pension reform. Was there a need for pension reform? Yes! Should the employment rate of older workers be increased? Yes! Should we take into account the increase in life expectancy? Again, yes! But should the legal age of the pension be raised to 67 when the average age of departure from the labour market is less than 59 years? The answer is no! A no all the more categorical since, at the same time, you have removed the pension bonus, you have reduced the time credits and the end-of-career adjustments and you do not expect anything for the difficult jobs. Worse, not a single word yesterday from you, Prime Minister, about the difficult jobs, as if you were not even willing to succeed on this issue in 2016. By acting in this way, persisting in this direction, clinging dogmatically to the 67-year-old limit without even developing measures on how – how to ensure that workers remain on the labour market? – you risk, as the experts have shown, sending the workers to illness or disability. For us, measures were needed to gradually increase the effective age of retirement by promoting well-being at work, by qualitatively adjusting career ends, and by maintaining a reformed version of the pension bonus. In fact, Prime Minister, you spoke yesterday about pensions only about hard measures for the citizen, bad measures. You have obviously decided to obliterate everything else and not to say a word about it. Is the effort by this reform fairly distributed? I have spoken on several occasions in recent years on this aspect and on the main victims of the pension reform of women. So I will not go back to that, but if the question is whether this reform is fair, and especially for women, the answer is no! You have decided to sacrifice efficiency, you have decided to sacrifice the excellent work of the group of the National Pensions Commission on the altar of dogmatism at the age of 67. The second example I will address is the tax shift. To strengthen the competitiveness of our economy and create employment, should the cost of labour be reduced? Of course it is! Should the social contributions of SMEs be reduced? Yes! Should the self-employed be exempt from employer contributions on the first commitment? Yes! Should the pocket salary be increased? Yes! Should there be significant resources? Yes! Prime Minister, it is said that the night is a good advice, but perhaps this is the case with vacations. Your tax shift, in its Saturday version, is "less worse" than the July one. In July, you apparently forgot about the independents and the families. For the independents, you obviously had to meditate a little on our criticisms, since you have only partially corrected your reform as far as they are concerned. You have decided to gradually reduce social contributions to compensate for the fact that they do not benefit at all from the increase in lump sum costs. On the other hand, for families, everything is not wrong if you change the version in the coming days. For the families, we had already fired the alarm bell last July but you didn't hear anything. You remove the 30% tax bracket. From two children, you lose the benefit as it does not take into account the tax-exempt quota that is higher for large families. You lose half of the benefit for families with two children and you lose the expected benefit for families with three or more children. We've done and done all the calculations again. I don't know what you're going to do on the 45% tax bracket yet. Again the trap may be the same. If you do not change and simply decide to remove the 30% tranche and reshape the 45% tranche without taking into account the family dimension, then the families of two children, three or more children will be left behind in this reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u218	Mrs Fonck, we have understood the problem well and have solved it. We calculated without removing the 30% portion to prevent families with children from being penalized. A correction has been made. Mr Johan Van Overtveldt can confirm this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u219	Does that mean that you do not remove the 30% tranche?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u220	As my colleague, Mr Peeters, has just said, we are adjusting the calculation to take account of the child factor. This means that, in taxation levels with dependent children, this element has been eliminated from the calculations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u221	You mean that the exempt tax quota is raised with dependent children. In July, that was not the case. We will see what will happen when you come with the texts; it is at that time that we can also continue to correct the shot, if that would not have been the case. These are two elements on which it seemed to us extremely important to sound the alarm bell during the month of August. Ladies and gentlemen, this shows that the opposition can also be useful! You will agree that it would be a great deal to penalize and leave out families with two or more children. The efforts you are asking the public to make are considerable. The first point that I want to address before we get to taxes is the restrictions that you impose on a whole series of sectors: Justice, the police, Health, SNCB, to take just a few examples. These restrictions involve not only the actors in these sectors but also – and I dare say above all – the beneficiaries of these services to the public. I'll stop here for a moment on the Health component. I will come back later on safety and SNCB. As I said, for the INAMI Management Committee, the budget has been slashed by both patient representatives and provider representatives. Mr. Ducrame, you said to the rostrum that you would continue to invest in hospitals, pay particular attention to chronic patients, pay attention to the continuity of general medical care, etc. It's a long list. She's on my desk. Prime Minister Ducrame, I hear that there will be a reform of the guards for general practitioners. These guards are now frozen, whereas this is a major element for general practitioners. They were still explaining to me yesterday that these decisions are taken not only through the proposal of the management committee of INAMI but also by the Minister of Health, who unfortunately is no longer here. It is an element on which you will be able to make great savings, but it is also an element that contradicts the promises you made, the government agreement and, more importantly, what I heard in the gallery earlier. That's it! We are still told that you are going to pay attention to general medical duty stations, even though these guards are currently frozen, that the decision is made, that it has even been explained and that the information has already been disseminated to general practitioners. I could give you several examples in this respect. Prime Minister, today some patients are waiting for innovative medicines that are already being reimbursed in neighbouring countries. You know that because some patients have met you in this regard. Indeed, they are expensive drugs. However, it is possible to find formulae with the pharmaceutical sector. I can make you proposals on this. In France, for example, when a certain volume is exceeded, the price is halved. It's not just about improving the small comfort of life for these patients. These are drugs that will change everything and simply allow them to live. While neighbouring countries, which are in socio-economic situations similar to ours, provide patients with access to these innovative medicines, you dare to say that, no, these savings will not hurt patients and that, no, these savings will not hurt caregivers. Prime Minister, I'm telling you very simply, come with me for a day to a hospital and meet these patients. They came to see you during your conference in Wavre with Minister De Block. Listen to them! You will see their suffering and I believe you will no longer dare to say that, no, these savings do no harm to patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u222	I confirm that we are in contact with associations that represent patients who are affected by rare diseases that require expensive medicines. Together with Minister De Block, we are working to find solutions to this problem. I want to repeat it in front of this House because contact with the associations is made. On the other hand, I reacted earlier on the INAMI budget, and I will not go back to this point; this will be discussed in the Council of Ministers on Friday. However, I would like to make it clear that in the INAMI budget proposal there were more than EUR 160 million in new initiatives. I understand your reasoning, but I want to reiterate that we are committed to ensuring access to quality health care. This amount of €160 million includes initiatives for children with psychiatric diseases, strengthening efforts for chronic diseases – which had started in the past – and consolidating initiatives for the extremely important Cancer Plan. This is therefore a strong commitment to trying to properly manage access to quality health care. On this subject, the majority or opposition, one can perhaps actually find one another.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u223	Prime Minister, thank you for your further explanation. Of course, there are 160 million for new initiatives. But when we make a commitment in a government agreement to make a 1.5% standard of health, which is already not much compared to the previous standard, we respect it and keep it. If you had planned $400 million for new initiatives next year, instead of $160 million, you would have made real progress for patients, actually supporting general practitioners and not hurting, for example, the reform of guard stations. In addition to these drastic restrictions, you also impose a whole series of new taxes or increase taxes to a significant extent. They will obviously affect purchasing power. I listened to you yesterday and again today, as well as the members of your government in the media. Contrary to what you say, they cannot be avoided by a change in behaviour. If you want to change your behavior, you need an alternative. For both diesel and electricity, there is no alternative to escape your taxes. Let us first take the diesel consumers: either they decide to stay on diesel or they change cars. If they change cars, recognize that this will represent a considerable additional cost. They will not, for many of them, and will pay your new tax. In any case, even for those who switch to gasoline, this will weigh in their portfolio as gasoline costs a lot more. This alternative does not exist: you directly penalize people who need their car to work. I still hear the MR say, during the election campaign, that there was no question of taxing diesel in any way because people who need their car to work would be touched. Now you explain that driving gasoline is good for health, but also good for the environment. I am not going to hold a technical speech on the advantages of diesel and gasoline. I wish to convey the following message to you. If there was a real alternative, especially at the SNCB level, you could imagine defending this project. But that's not the case, because you've decided to cut off SNCB services, delete lines, etc. Rural and semi-rural commuters are finding it increasingly difficult to move. In addition, SNCB wants to increase the price of passes and subscriptions, not to mention the explosion of paid car parks, while SNCB claims that it is not to bring back money, but to ensure that commuters have a place in a parking lot. Instead, I suggest that you allow free access to those who have a pass or a subscription. For VAT on electricity, it's the same thing. Don't tell me that electricity is not a basic necessity! We can all light ourselves with the candle. Mr President, what do you think about saving money in Parliament? Recognize that electricity is essential for lighting and heating. Alternatives do not exist. Prime Minister, you have a sense of extraordinary communication. I can't help but show this advertising campaign that you made in its time: "VAT on electricity drops from 21% to 6%, promise kept!" It is far from the time when the promise was kept!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u224	This measure on electricity was decided by the previous government for a period of two years. It was a first point that needed to be assessed. Under this government, we are making a tax slide of more than €8 billion with a massive drop in labour taxes, especially for low and medium wage earners. That's quite a difference from the somewhat simplistic summary you're trying to make.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u225	Prime Minister, I was not yet at the end of my speech. You not only accumulate VAT on electricity, but you add the index jump as well as all other taxes. Would I dare talk about tobacco? As far as public health is concerned, it is a good thing, but I was suggesting a few days ago that the Minister of Health should ensure that, on the basis of tobacco excises, attention is paid to ensuring that the whole increase is returned to the State funds and that half, if not more, does not go back to the cigars' pocket. On an ethical level, that would be a big deal! You know that depending on the method and the types of excise duty that are used, it is either up to the state or there is a benefit to cigar manufacturers. Madam Minister, I urged you, just a week ago, to fight for everything to come back to the state's coffers and to invest, for example, in smoking cessation aids. I don't know if that is the case and I don't know if you can answer me. Have you chosen specific excise duties or proportional excise duties? This changes everything ethically as well as for the state budget. I'm getting to the soda taxes. I live on the French border and when I go to France, I see only one thing: Belgians pushing caddies with mountains of water. Tomorrow they'll take water and sodas! In fact, I heard that the minister seemed to discover that the government had decided the soda taxes without her. I didn't get it very well. We are now being announced the taxes on fat and salt taxes. Do you know many foods without fat, sugar and salt? There aren't many! So say it otherwise! You have decided to increase VAT, which is the same thing, on food. Because in fact, that's what you're busy doing. If you charge taxes on fat, sugar and salt, almost all foods are targeted. What if we lower taxes on fruit, vegetables and water? There, you would do useful work. Moreover, this would be very sensible for our farmers, our producers and water companies. Finally, taxes also on intercommunals: crèches, water, waste will be subject to ISOC. You'll tell me it's a big talk of unfair competition. Are you interested in family policies, Minister Peeters? I thought it was important to you, that you believe it! Well, no, we consider that crèches must also be subject via intercommunals to ISOC, because there is unfair competition! We're still wondering with what? Indeed, in this matter, the choices you have made are surprising, not to say detonating. But it is true in Wavre, Prime Minister, with the Régie Communale, that you escape the system of taxation of intercommunals that your government has decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u226	Forgive me for telling you, what you're saying is not fair! Inquire!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u227	Yes!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u228	No, it's not fair! I think I'm in a good position to talk about it! The Communal Water Authority has existed for decades and it is I who, by becoming an alderman, organized the transfer to the Intercommunal of the waters of the Centre du Brabant Wallon. The Régie de l'électricité has existed for decades, long before I was a member of the municipal council of Wavre and we are busy putting ourselves in order so that the Régie communale de l'électricité de Wavre also pays VAT. It settles in a self-governing system. Of course, we do not have an intercommunal crèche in Wavre. We have communal crèches. Previously, there were public crèches. There is no intercommunal in Wavre which runs the communal crèches.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u229	I'm not talking about Wavre's cribs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u230	So you're saying anything! This happens regularly!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u231	I'm not just talking about your little town, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u232	Who said anything about Wavre?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u233	I wasn't talking about Wavre's cribs. Don't you have a municipal government in Wavre? On the other hand, all the crèches that will be tomorrow in intercommunals will be submitted to ISOC. Do you consider family policies to be unfair competition?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u234	(...) We are for free choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u235	This is also our case, but do you know the length of waiting lists in nurseries? This is not a problem of unfair competition: there are not enough places in general. Above all, let us move forward to support family policies, be it children's homes that are private structures that must obviously be supported, but also all the other arrangements for the care of children between 0 and 3 years of age. Unlike you, I do not oppose both because, personally, I want to defend and the children's homes, which are private crèches, and the crèches that are organized and subsidized. With what you do, you decide purely and simply to punish families. Clearly, we do not share the same vision. I come to the objectives and what these sacrifices are dedicated to. Of course, it's about creating jobs. I have already explained how you told us yesterday: 'the fulfilment of our European commitments is guaranteed'. One of the European commitments is to meet a rate of 73% employment in 2020. This amounts to 400,000 jobs to be created. Without further action, the Planning Office recorded the number of jobs at 200,000. Isn't that fair?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u236	I have in fact repeated – I persist and sign – that I would honour our commitments in the context of fiscal consolidation. Secondly, we have to meet the targets in terms of employment rates and we are mobilizing to do so. In addition, we consider this to be a choice. You can express another one, and I respect it. Instead, we believe that the Plan Office and the National Bank should be trusted to assess the estimates on the basis of the measures we are taking. Finally, as I say with great humility, we can set ourselves in order and undertake important economic and fiscal reforms to foster a context in which activities and jobs can be created, but it will also depend on whether the economic situation in Europe is positive or not. On this, everyone can agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u237	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u238	I confirm that we wish to achieve this ambitious goal. That is why we are trying to undertake reforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u239	Prime Minister, I would like to join you in this. You obviously depend on a whole series of external factors. However, nothing would have prevented you from asking, depending on the growth rate assumptions, for a precise examination of the impact of the various measures you are taking on job creation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u240	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u241	You could have asked for simulations to at least not base your policy on a crystal ball. I now turn to the analysis you requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u242	Mr President, without arguing with Prime Minister Fonck, Mrs Fonck is right. The Plan Office has developed a model, namely the HERMES model; the National Bank is working with another. You could have first introduced yours into the simulators to see if there was job creation and to measure the impact on the structural balance and disposable income. They are able to do so, and even to do so quickly. I am telling you this because the 2001 reform of the personal income tax was the subject of a return measure by the Planning Office. We know it was about 25%. That is to say, the models exist and may help to reorient the measures, to target more such groups of workers than others, and thus to adapt them to your economic policy objectives. Mrs Fonck is right: from a methodological point of view, why didn't you first ask for simulations? I do not want to create controversy; it is only a matter of method.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u243	Of course, I thank our colleague for his very constructive desire not to argue, but I want to reassure her: we are not totally naive, not totally foolish. We have not made these decisions without taking into account all previous studies. Just one example: the fact that we have tried to focus heavily on reducing the burden on low wages because by doing so, the effect is more important in terms of business creation and in terms of job creation. As far as purchasing power is concerned, we have also concentrated our efforts on low and medium wages. The tables will show that the impacts are very marked on the bottom and the means of wages. This is what has the greatest impact on domestic demand, which is beneficial for economic growth, which supports a positive phenomenon. I wanted to reassure you if you had for a few moments imagined, which I do not think, that we would have lacked precautions on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u244	Mr Prime Minister, I share some of your comments on low and medium wages and, in particular, on targeted efforts to create jobs, which is notoriously more effective. With respect to the analysis, I am pleased that, following my request on Monday for a measure of the impact of the government's decisions, you have very kindly distributed this letter to us. I note that the analysis you are requesting from the Federal Office of the Plan would be based solely on the notifications of the Councils of Ministers on 28 August and 11 October 2015 and on the preliminary bill (I imagine it is not yet finalized, which is understandable) with the measures to strengthen job creation and purchasing power. Prime Minister, I ask you to do an analysis of the entire government's policy over the entire legislature. Isolating the tax shift allows you to highlight it, but it truncates the analysis. We said earlier that the index jump had taken place for pensioners, but not only. The index jump also occurred for the public service last June. Your analysis must cover the whole. It should also be noted that, in the budgetary path, you have committed yourself at European level to making a structural effort of 0.60%. This includes a range of savings measures. We were talking about health earlier. But if we want the analysis to be serious, a truth-based analysis of government policies, we cannot afford to rely solely on the tax shift. To assess the impact on the household and citizen portfolio, it is necessary to do so across government policy across the legislature. I hope you will do this analysis in a transparent way. You have announced new taxes to gogo! For a right-wing government, let us recognize that this is quite paradoxical. I am also surprised by the elements that you have given us at the macro level. As far as budgetary management is concerned, we have the right to question the rigour. I'm not going to remind you of the episode of the $750 million bill with the federated entities. I am not going to talk about the eve of the October Conclave, when there were 880 million missing from the Monitoring Committee's estimates. Even yesterday, the press revealed the lack of 30 million to the bank contribution. Is it to be said that revenue in the tax shift is for the moment random? You mentioned a redesign of the administrations for 500 million. There is a rather vague position where we talk about "other measures" in 2018-2019 and we do not know very well what this is about. We don't know how many recipes you're hoping for. On the other hand, a simple calculation shows that there is a gap between the 8.35 billion envelope and the financing which is only 7.3 billion. So there's a billion in nature! Perhaps it is the billion of 2018-2019? History does not say that, but these terms "other measures" in 2018-2019 are at least one billion and it will be important that you can clarify things. We tabled proposals on tax reform, including on job creation, last January. I am not going to develop our alternative proposals again. We agree with you on a number of points concerning the self-employed and for the social contributions of SMEs, but we would have wanted to go further and do things differently. We will have the opportunity to explain our alternative positions, particularly with Benoît Dispa. A human employment policy cannot be limited to one figure and job creation. The quality of the job cannot be changed to a trap. There was no single word on qualitative adjustments for workers over 55 years of age, which would allow us to have an effective pension reform. Mr. Minister for Employment, there was no mention of werkbaar werk. There was not a single word on reconciling family and working life. Rien, nothing, nada! However, if we want to improve career paths, if we want workers to work longer, if we also want to offer opportunities in terms of occupational mobility, it also goes through the whole dimension of the quality of employment for which I was terribly disappointed yesterday not to hear you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u245	We will hold a second round table in November. I am convinced that the social partners are also discussing an important issue that you have already highlighted: the work that can be done. This is a high priority for the government. But like us, you know that the social partners are in the first phase of these discussions. In November, when we organise this second round table, I hope that we can see that the social partners have already taken action or will already have a number of points of agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u246	Thank you for that clarification. I hope that the government, in this case, will support you. I have no doubt that the social partners, who have excellent expertise in this area, have a lot of ideas and have already been able to implement a series of reforms, such as in the health care sector from 55 years old, will come with interesting and positive ideas. To conclude on the job, I would say that you are making a dared bet. I won't go back to index jumping, taxes, etc. I have heard the Dewael version, if I can call it that, and the Peeters version with regard to social consultation. I believe that restoring a more serene social climate will be a major factor in the success of the entire socio-economic project. We know how close you are to the bosses. We can't see how you can work with the unions. I simply say it in a positive and constructive way. Mr Prime Minister, I really invite you, beyond your Minister for Employment, to invest in you and to really fit into this logic of consultation. I shall now turn to two points that have imposed themselves on your Government, first of all the fight against terrorism. We have never engaged in sterile polemics on the subject, we have supported a series of measures that largely overlapped with the proposals we made. However, we want to strengthen vigilance on three essential points: budgetary resources, since significant savings have been made in the areas of justice and police, the protection of freedoms because the fight against terrorism does not justify any infringement of our freedom and privacy and, finally, the refusal of any amalgam between communities and terrorists. With regard to the reception of refugees, I would like to highlight the magnificent momentum of solidarity and generosity shown by citizens and civil society. Many citizens have given the best: fraternity, compassion, humanity. This is to be welcomed because, in addition to this, others have decided to call this generous civil society "leftist ramassis". Prime Minister, let me say to you that, in my view, the role of politics is to listen and appease, to understand fears and to explain, in view of the concern that this influx of war refugees has brought about among the population. Leaders of your majority have worked not to appease these concerns but to turn them into fear, which we know is the antechamber of hatred. It's easy and serious because at this infamous little game, you always win. In this regard, you did not live up to your role as Prime Minister. It was not just a government partner that spoke from the outside. It was also members of your government who supported this expression of a party in your coalition. And you, as Prime Minister, needed to be a strong reminder of democratic values. It is up to you to put the beacons and to reject the unacceptable statements that can be made and that only stir up hatred while the population, for a large part, has shown incredible impulses of generosity. I will not go back to the explosive situation in Linkebeek, nor to the issue of the overflight of Brussels, nor to the Flemishisation of the organs of the INAMI, nor to the continuing linguistic imbalance in the Defence, nor to the way in which you treat the French-speaking federated entities: the facts speak for themselves. Let me tell you that you seem to me to be a prisoner of the choice of your coalition and your role as Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u247	Mrs Fonck, what you have just said about refugee reception policy surprises me. I have been involved in a lot of debates in recent weeks and many people have told me that they have recognized themselves in the work of our Prime Minister and Secretary of State, and that we can be proud of this in Belgium. On the other hand, Mrs Fonck, I have never heard you condemn the attitude of your fellow religious leader, Mr Orban, with regard to refugees. It has never been excluded from the European People's Party, of which you are a member. And you don't say that. I'm sorry, but that's all but humanism.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u248	I'll tell you what I think. I've already done it and I'll do it again if necessary. Mr Orban and his party no longer have a place in the EPP. That is also why the President of our party called on the EPP. The attitude of Mr Orban, the construction of this new wall of hatred, is truly scandalous, totally unacceptable! I feel as far away from Mr. Orban as from the N-VA when they incite hatred in the refugee file. I'm talking about what was said by this partner of your majority. I'm not talking to you about the Prime Minister and the words that were relayed by a minister in this government. I will conclude with a call to you, Prime Minister, and to the whole government. I would like to invite you to restore confidence with civil society by listening to and coordinating with it. I would like to call on you to restore confidence with Francophones by ensuring that their interests are respected within your government, and with the federated entities by considering them as partners and not enemies. I invite you to restore trust with honest people by fighting fraud, to restore trust with women, with families, with middle classes by correcting your pension reform. I also call on you to restore confidence by ending blind cuts in budgets and, in particular, in health budgets. Your priority, Prime Minister, must also be to leave your stand of breaking with people and rebuild that trust. Without that confidence, there will be no more of our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u249	Ladies and gentlemen, it is now up to the so-called unrecognised groups. Then there is the Prime Minister's reply and the rebuttal of the parties in the hemisphere. Then there will be a 15-minute technical break and then we will proceed to the thematic debates jusqu'à la fin. We'll start tomorrow morning at 11:00. There will only be the vote tomorrow morning. Mrs Pas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u250	Mr President, the superlatives were not spared when I read in the newspapers today the reactions of majority members on the tax shift. It started under Verhofstadt, I think, that small measures are being blown up into very important things to bring some kind of good news show. Under Di Rupo that triumphalism was continued, albeit with a little less tickeling, but meanwhile they apparently make such good news shows a habit. Of course, there are also good measures. It'd be bad if it weren't for you. The steps in the right direction to reduce labour costs are certainly part of this. I quote my former professor Herman Daems: "The discussion about wage costs and the tax shift is in the right direction. Of course it is too little, but strong movements in this country are not possible. To mention now the historical measures is a bit exaggerated. Admit it, it's not that hard to do better than the previous government. Simplifying or modernising the tax system, making the special financing law transparent: that would be historic, but not the proposed budgetary exercise. It is puzzle work, which has been brought to a nocturnal meeting, with the main aim of closing a budgetary gap in such a way that everyone can score with their own supporters. Take, for example, the speculative tax, a tax which the government wants to create the false impression that those wealthy and naughty speculators are hurting. In practice, it affects small private individuals. There is still more to be done, but it is already certain that the tax will exceed its target and that it will raise 34 million very uncertain. The total unnecessary Senate costs us twice a year. It is purely a symbol tax, which one likes to make a big measure of. A tax on politicians who think that they can fool people in this way would be more effective, even if the negative values were to be taken into account, which is not even the case with the speculative tax. Or take the sugar tax now. The government is working hard to sell this tax as a so-called health tax, with the aim of adjusting the unhealthy behaviour of consumers. However, it is either one or the other: either one aims to avoid behaviour, or the intention is to raise tax revenues. In view of the fact that the measure has been taken on the budget, more quickly than Minister De Block wanted, is the real purpose of that tax not clear? Then it is a health tax that has nothing to do with people's health, but everything to do with the unhealthy budget. Like previous governments, the current government uses tricks to get the budget in order. It would be a good thing for the government, if they had the honesty to communicate it that way, rather than pretending to be engaged in health policy and combating speculation. I am sorry, by the way, that Minister Van Overtveldt is no longer the editor-in-chief of Trends. I would very much have liked to have read his opinion papers on the fees proposed today. The tricks that are now being used to close the sudden gap in the budget had undoubtedly produced some harsh comments from his own point of view. I am not even talking about the recurring classic tricks, such as raising the proceeds from the fight against fraud, à la Crombez, to make the bill work. A lot has already been said about this: if you earn gross less than 2 800 euros per month, you would have a net surplus of 100 to 150 euros by 2019. But only those who do not consume electricity, those who do not drive a car, those who never smoke, drink and have no stock will gain in purchasing power. The government says they get 100 more euros: please, go to the store with that. But she does not say that the cash register will have to pay a plural price. I have to establish a new kind of federalism for cooperation. The federal government wants to increase excise duties on diesel. It hits six out of ten drivers. If it's to bully the drivers, they'll find each other. After all, I read that the Flemish Government intends to increase registration fees for new cars. So if you want to buy a new car because you think your diesel car is too expensive, you've got to go twice anyway. Instead of asking for applause for the Red Devils, Mr Onkelinx had this morning better asked for applause for the citizens who have to keep paying all these bills and who swallow them and indeed pay them nicely. Ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly concerned about what the Prime Minister did not say yesterday in his policy statement. While Europe and this country are overwhelmed by an unprecedented asylum invasion which threatens to disrupt our society, that fundamental problem is being dealt with in two meaningless sentences somewhere at the end of its declaration of government. The gap between the Volksstraat and the Wetstraat can't be bigger. After all, all the opinion polls show that the population sees immigration as the biggest challenge we are currently facing. There is an immense gap between what public opinion thinks and what the political class in this country is doing today. The problem of refugees should have been the essence, the main chunk of the declaration of government and should not have been covered up in two meaningless sentences at the end. If that gap gets too big, Bart De Wever goes to the TV studios to sell tough language, which his ministers unfortunately do not turn into policy. The argument that one should close the borders or give up social security is correct. However one turns or turns, mass immigration is not compatible with a welfare state. Therefore, enter real border controls and not the so-called checks that were introduced in mid-September and for which eight agents were released to check the 200 kilometers long border with Germany and Dutch Limburg, and then only on weekdays and within office hours. We ask that the government really guard the borders, implement an effective expulsion policy and invest in a dignified and safe reception of refugees in its own region. Now the biggest losers, the ones who can't afford the crooked smugglers, stay in the cold. Stand up against third countries that refuse to cooperate in curbing illegal immigration and the fight against trafficking in human beings. Instead of receiving Erdogan without critical questions, but with a Grandlint in the Order of Leopold, make sure he tackles the smugglers in Turkey. Turkey has been a turning point and a starting point for illegal immigration into Europe for years. According to the recent estimates of Frontex, more than 500 000 asylum seekers are waiting for the crossing to the European Union in and around the port city of Izmir. Instead of acting totally uncritically and inertly in the European Union, please set boundaries, literally to whom our country enters, but also figuratively to our generosity. In the previous legislature, Theo Francken said from the opposition that Flanders paid the bill for the lax migration policy. Today his party mate, Minister Homans, says that she expects three quarters of asylum seekers who receive recognition to find a place of residence in Flanders. The result is that Flanders is still paying the bill for a failing Belgian migration policy today and that, on top of that, through the European distribution plan which the Prime Minister is defending in his government statement, another invoice will be added tomorrow for the failing European migration policy. Flemish Interest wants to save on asylum and not on our own people. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly concerned about what the Prime Minister did not say yesterday in his declaration of government. What is completely lacking is the Community aspect. I have to disappoint Mr Calvo, but at the same time I have to reassure him. He didn't want to hear that Belgium is sick. On the one hand, I must disappoint him, Belgium is very sick. On the other hand, I must reassure him, because the therapeutic persistence of all these governmental parties is particularly great. The N-VA does everything in its power to prove that Belgium is indeed working. The Prime Minister has devoted one sentence to the Community aspect in his declaration of government. It is a very important sentence. He said that despite the different democratic opinions and relations of power, the commitment of the sixth state reform and the federal loyalty must be shared. It is not, of course, because there is no mention of Community problems that they have suddenly disappeared. Ladies and gentlemen of the N-VA, it is not by silence that we will create a basis for support. The one sentence in the declaration of government was a very clear message to you, in so far as it had to be repeated. In any case, you have followed the imposed Community omerta scrupulously over the past year. You applied it strictly, surprisingly strictly, because no measure, no matter how small the application of language legislation or the like, was taken by your excellences to correct adverse situations for Flanders. Everything that has a Community dimension has been deliberately avoided by you. It is sad to see that the only nationalism that appears today to the N-VAS is that of projection. Everything you keep silent about in all languages, you project with enthusiasm to Catalans, Basques and Scots. May I remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the N-VA, that your government partner MR, often in a sneaky manner, does indeed do Community policy? The Linkebeek dossier, the appointment of French-speaking Minister of Mrs Wilmès from the Flemish outskirts of Sint-Genesius-Rode? Or did you have the federal loyalty in mind when the Council of Ministers approved the subsidies from the National Lottery? This year, EUR 250 000 will be allocated to the External Trade Agency to return Princess Astrid's foreign missions from two to four. Under the impetus of then Prime Minister Kris Peeters, the Regions had previously halved that. Now the federal jackpots are being used to compensate for that again. Is that part of the federal loyalty? Does it fit within the federal loyalty that this government does nothing against the French Community which, totally unconstitutional, grants hundreds of thousands of euros to the French-speaking school in Voeren? My speaking time is limited and the short time of 15 minutes prevents me from giving more examples. In the meantime, every Flemish nationalist can see that this so-called federal loyalty is primarily a one-sided Flemish affair and serves only to make the Flame work, not to curb French-speaking Community incivism. The Community's duty of silence is an excuse not to put the billions of transfers on the political agenda. The transfers go ahead and fatten even further, and the Fleming also pays that invoice. Meanwhile, you confront the same modal Flemish with a series of additional taxes and sometimes painful savings as well. I will conclude, Mr President. I would ask my fellow Members to bear that in mind if they are considering giving this government the confidence. I ask you to think before they, blinded by the so-called loyalty, silently applaud as a good fold, as is usually the case. On the basis of this declaration of government, this federal team will not be the team of the great change it likes to express itself for and for which it is so keen to continue. This will only be the government that is putting its head in the sand for the fundamental problems facing our society. Since the Flemish interest wants a profound change, we cannot give confidence to this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u251	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, certainly this exercise has become somewhat agreed. We can still wonder whether what one of your predecessors, Prime Minister, wanted is still being given the same meaning today, after hearing your speech yesterday. As far as the state of the Union is concerned, I expected to have a global view not only of our economic situation, a comparison with the countries of the European Union, especially those that matter in our economic environment, and we have not been given this general state of affairs of the economic reality of our country. I am not here to say unilaterally that all developments are unfavourable. This is not my way of thinking about the political debate, but from there to believe that all the decisions you have taken are the ones that are really going to get us on the right track, I still don't see the effects, despite your presence in business for a year. I shall therefore establish a state of the economic union of our country. I will take a number of clues that must alert us. The first will be the evolution of the gross wage bill, because it is not enough to consider job creation. It is still necessary to examine whether job creation leads to wage bill growth or whether jobs are not well paid and do not contribute to wealth growth. In view of the gross index of payroll in the industry sector, with the exception of construction, the comparison between the second quarter of 2015 and the second quarter of 2014, shows that there is a decrease in payroll by 0.4%. Bad clue! In the construction sector, the same unfavourable trend: a decrease of 0.3% in the wage bill. If I consider the evolution of the turnover of enterprises, an index of the tone of economic activity and, therefore, of the capacity to create jobs in the business sector, it is clear that the index from June 2014 to June 2015 shows a decrease of 3.6%. And yet first steps had been taken and we were told yesterday that they had their effects. This is not yet translated as you would like. If I take the production index of companies. The trend in non-construction industrial production shows a decline of 0.5% from July 2014 to June 2015. The construction sector still has a certain status quo, but there is still a 1.2% decline from July 2014 to June 2015. This is reflected in confidence indicators. If I take the confidence indicators (which come from the National Bank), the consumer confidence indicator fell significantly in September of this year despite the tax shift announcements in July. The consumer could have anticipated by saying that the government was going to give it back purchasing power and trusting it. But that is not what is happening with a fall of minus six in August and minus ten in September. The business confidence index fell for the third month in a row this year: minus 5.5% in August, minus 6.8% in September, while it is perhaps business owners who should be the first to be convinced of the measures you are taking since everything is focused on business competitiveness. Obviously this message is not heard in the economic reality by the circles concerned. This is corroborated by Eurostat's economic sentiment indicator. This indicator of economic sentiment is very important; it is used in all the countries of the European Union. It is a composite index that includes several indicators of confidence in industry, the services sector, consumers, construction and retail trade. It shows that while the average for the Eurozone is 105, this confidence indicator is only 98.9% for Belgium. It is 107 % for Germany, 101 for France and 106 for the Netherlands. We see, therefore, that we are in an unfavourable configuration in terms of confidence, which is the first criterion for favourable economic development. Taking Eurostat data for the evolution of the trade balance, it is true that the trade balance is more advantageous in intra-European trade. For non-European trade, our balance continues to deteriorate, from almost seven billion to double between January-July 2014 and January-July 2015. A deteriorating trade balance. In export markets, we do not succeed in the performance of an economy that says it is very open. We are told: "Competitiveness is business, it is the priority to be able to be successful again on export." What does that mean? That we are currently dependent, since our trade balance is favourable at intra-European level, on the purchasing power of the other countries of the European Union. These other countries make another economic choice for some of them, which is more support for demand than for supply. I do not deny the importance of a policy based on reducing productivity costs for businesses, but you cannot do this unilaterally. This is the deep imbalance that you are creating in terms of economic growth. There is also a need to free up purchasing power. You're going to tell me: tax reform. I have done the analysis, as others have also done in this forum, of the reality of your tax slide. I support the reality of objective data. And I'm going to show you, numbers in support, what really remains in terms of the growth of purchasing power for certain categories of workers' income. Others have rightly said that pensioners, social beneficiaries and other categories of beneficiaries who are not working income are obviously not the major beneficiaries of your tax reform. I take a monthly gross remuneration of 1 500 euros, or 18 000 euros a year, for a single person who owns a diesel vehicle that travels 18 000 km a year and who does not consume tobacco – which is already very good – but who consumes one bottle of alcohol per month subject to the increase in excise duties. You are announcing that the tax reform will lead to a gain of 82 euros per month in 2016. Then, I deduct 8 euros following the increase in VAT on electricity – a reasonable deduction compared to actual electricity consumption – I also deduct the increase in the price of diesel for only one full per month (3 euros) as well as the increase in the price of excise duties on alcohol and the non-indexation of wages (20 euros). What's left? EUR 48.40. 82 euros eaten by different tax increases and above all by non-indexing of wages. If I do the same exercise for someone who earns 2,800 euros gross per month, always with a diesel vehicle, a reasonable annual mileage, no tobacco consumption, maybe two bottles of wine per month because his purchasing power is a little stronger; of the 57 euros net per month that your tax reform gives, it remains, minus the increase in VAT, the increase in excise duties on diesel and on wine and following the non-indexation of wages, 14,50 euros net per month. It is not a tax reform that supports purchasing power. You're missing the target you're claiming to defend. You have simply done too accurate calculations that do not provide a real lever of support for economic growth through the strengthening of domestic demand. I have already demonstrated this in this gallery. See what is being done in Germany and the United Kingdom. They freed up wages and allowed, by industry, there to be a negotiation to raise wages. They understood that a realignment of net wages was not the enemy of competitiveness. It is an error of appreciation to continue to say that the enemy of competitiveness is the income of the worker's net wage. He's not the enemy of competitiveness. Germany and the United Kingdom have understood this. And that's what they do. They put an end to the wage freeze. Put an end to the wage freeze. Give the social partners the capacity to negotiate the wage system. First of all, this creates trust between the social partners. It's the engine oil in their negotiations. The negotiation of the wage standard is the area historically reserved for the social partners. Trust me. You have people on both sides who are responsible enough to know, as they have proven in the past, what a reasonable standard of wage growth can be to support economic activity. First step you had to take. Second step. I have reviewed the MR's tax reform programme. We're a long way from what you promised. Far away. I'm not saying I supported all of your measurements, but some of them deserved interest. Where has the creation of a zero rate for all incomes below EUR 13,000 been achieved, provided that the overall remuneration is not more than EUR 50,000? Where did that zero rate go? He's gone. Where is the increase in the threshold from which one euro out of two wins will no longer go into taxes? No implementation in your tax reform! Where did the reduction in the number of tranches go in order to return purchasing power to average incomes? You're only doing it in part. Where is the rationalization of tax niches and the creation of thematic tax baskets found in your program? I can't see it. Where is the decline in ISOC's nominal rate also announced in your program? I can't find a trace of it. Where is the 20% reduced ISOC rate for SMEs? It's not in the tax reform because you don't touch corporate tax, but there was also something to do. Where is the gradual reform of notional interests? Still no evolution in this direction. We are therefore very far from the electoral promises you made and some voters believed. Yet we warned. It was said: "Warning! We're going to have to finance the budget." Today, we have proof that you are just giving the illusions of tax reform to try to ease fears. But it won't be long because the consumer or the worker will quickly calculate, as I have just shown, the reality of his purchasing power after your tax reform and especially after the increases in certain indirect taxes. I conclude with a word on the role of a Prime Minister who guarantees federal loyalty. Linkebeek's case. I saw the Prime Minister linger long with Mr. Thiéry. This case is indicative of one thing, something that, under previous governments and under certain prime ministers, including under Flemish prime ministers whose capacity to assume their prime minister's authority I welcomed, would have been taken over. In this case, a responsible prime minister would have anticipated. For it is not enough to say: "This is a problem of the Flemish government". No, it's a problem of your majority. This is a problem between partners who are, and the federal government, and the Flemish government. You can't ignore it. A responsible Prime Minister would have anticipated. There was an honorable exit. He would have invited his majority partner by saying: "Certainly, legally, Damien Thiéry can no longer be appointed mayor". It's a fact. We can talk about it. Damien Thiéry said at the time in the gallery here: "The procedure before the General Assembly of the Council of State will be a Russian roulette". He was the victim of the Russian roulette. That's what he had already denounced himself, he suffered. But a prime minister could simply have said, "Let him function." Legally, there was this possibility. It was enough to let his majority partner know that this was the honourable outcome for everyone in order to avoid additional tension. You did not have that will, Prime Minister, nor do you have the will in other sensitive issues of a community nature to impose an authority. You do not do so when there are language imbalances in the public service, in particular, it was rightly recalled, at the head of INAMI. It's never been seen in the history of this country! You don't do this when some of the N-VA ministers are working to destabilize important sectors, including the Federal Science Policy, the major institutions that still make the federal surplus value of this country. For all this, there is a laissez-faire which predicts a highly damaging development, not only to the institutions concerned, but also to the conviction that this country still has a meaning. The most terrible thing is to allow its majority partner to undermine what should still be the basis of the conviction of all the citizens of this country is that there are still essential democratic values to be preserved; it is that there is still a role at European level to be preserved. I would like to say that one day you will have to choose between Mrs Merkel's camp – I take someone who rather represents a traditional right in Europe but who has had the courage in the dossier of welcoming political refugee candidates to recall what was Europe's main impetus, that is, the ability to speak to the rest of the world with a fair vision and which saves human dignity – or the temptation of your majority partner to go towards the tendency of Mr Orban and other personalities of this acabit who are undermining the future of Europe, as the N-VA is undermining the future of this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u252	Mr President, I find it regrettable that the Prime Minister has not listened to what has been said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u253	Mrs. Caprasse, the Prime Minister is here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u254	Yes, he's talking. It is simply a lack of courtesy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u255	Prime Minister, yesterday, I enjoyed your communication operation on average. Indeed, your text used the words "social", "we're going to help the poorest". You were just trying to convince public opinion that your policy was social. That is to say how much you are aware that the population hardly believes you. At every corner of the page, your speech wanted to convince. I understand your communication problem because actually, I confirm that people don't believe you. The summit was to say that you were the government that taxed capital the most. We figured on our benches we were trying to make us believe anything. Prime Minister, assume that you are pursuing an anti-social policy! Stop making people believe the opposite of what you're doing! That you help the social beneficiaries while you're going to pick up $7 billion in people's pockets by cutting off social spending and public services. Stop saying you're going to raise salaries and you're going to help them as you vote an index jump. Assume your anti-social policy. Your communication operation is not working. In Wavre, Liège or Charleroi, you feel that people don't believe you. I am not going to detail any figures that my colleagues have put forward. People don't need all these numbers. They see directly in their pocket that the money is not coming in. Increase from a VAT of 6 to 21% will cost 130 euros per family. They know it, they live it day by day! I therefore believe, Mr Prime Minister, that this two-speed policy, which gives more and more gifts to employers and does not guarantee the minimum for our citizens, cannot be pursued. A dispatch from the Reuter agency this morning made official for the first time in the history of humanity that 1% of the world's population owns more than 50% of the wealth. It is an important day, which points to the social polarization that exists in the world and which, of course, is found in Belgium. As a left-wing Member of Parliament, this is one of the main problems for economic recovery. Once again, we must not go and get the money from those who don't have it, but from those who have it. This is what you are not doing, Prime Minister! That's what I regret! That is why your employment policy will not work. Indeed, today is the taboo. I called at least three group leaders to ask them what they thought about the Coca-Cola case. I will recall the events that took place yesterday, because I am told that a government wants to create jobs. The company of Coca-Cola in Zwijnaarde, close to Ghent, dropped 122 jobs yesterday. However, this is a company that has really been pampered. We've given many gifts and lots of guidance to that multinational. I'm just gonna give you a few figures. Coca-Cola deletes 122 jobs on 434 jobs, i.e. 25 % of the jobs. How many taxes did Coca-Cola Belgium pay on its profits here in Belgium? Coca-Cola Belgium has paid 8.8 million euros in taxes at 111 million euros in profits. That is a tax rate of 7.9 %. For Francophone Liberals: 7.9%. We are well below the 34% that any company should legally pay in Belgium. We think it's a great example of a company that we've given a lot of gifts to! I've heard all day that by giving gifts to businesses, they're going to create jobs. How do you explain that yesterday a company you gave a lot of wheat to doesn't hire? And this same company will still receive gifts with the reduction in employer contributions that you have just decided. This case shows by A + B that there is no link between these gifts and job creation. Our study office has tried to see what influence the policy of the MR and tutti quaanti could have on the citizens. We thus took as model M. de Spoelberch, Viscount of his condition, married, without dependent child, given his advanced age. We have studied its heritage, which is estimated at 42 billion euros. What will he lose or win with the new government measures? [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u256	We have to ask the Prime Minister. He's got his address. In the earnings column, we have the reduction of social security contributions on the 2,800 workers of AB InBev, estimated at 1 629 euros. Mr. Minister of Finance, these are, of course, projections that we can eventually submit to your services. We are more or less 4,562,353 euros worth of gifts. Can the House services distribute the PTB tables to the government? Secondly, the maintenance of notional interest and exempt capital gains is estimated by our services to be 569,063,574 euros. That's why he wins. I grant you, he also loses with your measurements. With the impact of the increase in VAT and excise duties, with the kilometres it travels with a diesel car, rounding up to the next level to be a little objective, one leads to 1,500 euros in loss. We thus arrive at a total gift for M. de Spoelberch of more or less 573 624 427 euros on an annual basis. I only took one, I could have taken many other great Belgian fortunes. Prime Minister, when you tell me that you want to make the capitalists pay, there must be mistakes in the calculator! But your argument of weight is that of creating jobs. We're gonna create jobs. Those gifts are gonna create jobs. Figures can't be given yet, but those gifts will automatically lead to an increase in the number of jobs in Belgium. I really do not share this analysis for the simple reason that, when you say that social contributions are reduced to 25%, what are they busy doing in France, Holland and Germany? They hold exactly the same speeches as you, exactly the same speech from a competition down. What can prevent Mrs Merkel from proposing 24%? What will prevent Mr Hollande from proposing 23%? What will prevent the Netherlands, for some jobs, from going around 20%? Yet they are the biggest competitors around us, for which we reduce the contributions in order to rip out market shares. We referred earlier to e-commerce. Competition is clearly in relation to the Netherlands and France. So we are in full competition with the three countries around us. If all countries advocate this downward spiral, who will still buy our goods? Who will still be able to buy our goods, given that we are reducing either the purchasing power of workers or collective spending through government spending. And in the municipalities today there is a clear restriction on expenditure. This downward spiral cannot lead to job creation. That is the problem. This is the fundamental bug of your reasoning. The analysis of countries with the highest employment rate, because there are many comparisons – I think that the N-VA even took the United States of America this morning, the United States – reveals, after observing the tax rate and the employment rate, a positive correlation between these two rates. In other words, it is the countries such as Denmark, Sweden and Norway that have the highest drawdown rates that have the highest employment rate. Why? Because they can maintain some public employment. That's the bug when you say you're creating jobs today. The money you will no longer invest in the public service will also lead to many job losses. When you draw up your job creation table, ask the Plan Office and the National Bank to take the reduction in public employment into account in their projections. You're not just going to make paintings with what you're eating. We must also make tables with what we lose, so that we have at least a synthesis of what we will do, hypothetically, with systematically reduced growth rates. Indeed, your specialists, Minister, are constantly expecting growth of 1.5% and then it is reduced. We're never going up again. It's weird, we never go up again. Have you ever noticed? It's always the yo-yo effect, like we need to tell us everything's gonna get better before we go back. And then you have to correct the numbers, which are not even funny to correct: you have to find 800 million, all because someone had given you forecasts up! Let's be more realistic now! I think that today's employment policy is not the right one. Instead, together with the Belgian Labour Party, we propose an ambitious public investment plan, with measures on cyclical contracts. For that, there is money. I do not agree with those who say that big fortunes have already been taxed in Belgium. That is obviously not the case. This is one of the reasons why 12 000 new millionaires a year are taking place here in Belgium. This policy of giving everything as gifts to the richest and not investing decisively in our economy can no longer continue. Secondly, you have told us that you are ambitious for the climate summit to be held in Paris and that strong action is needed for the climate. The argument that made us laugh yesterday was that the measure to respect CO2 reductions was to discourage people from driving diesel and encourage them to drive gasoline. Did you know that when you burn gasoline in an engine, it also produces CO2? If you go to Paris and tell them you're going to encourage fuel consumption, they're going to think there's a problem. Prime Minister, today's climate measures are really not up to date. Of course, we would like you to be much more proactive. This requires a radical energy transition and a planned energy investment. We can no longer leave the question of energy to the free market. Other economic sectors still have margins, but there is an urgent need for energy. Only a collective will through state investment and cooperative investment will make this energy transition possible. We can never do it with Electrabel and Cie. We have to intervene in the market. As long as we remain in this dogma to believe that with subsidies we are going to force energy companies, whether multinational, European or American, to invest in clean energy, we will put our finger in the eye. I turn to the question of world war, to the question of refugees. I read in your statement that you did not close the option of intervening militarily in Syria. Here I would like to express my disagreement with this type of policy. They are exactly the cause of destabilization in the region. Today we must take stock of our interventions in Afghanistan and Libya, take stock of the US intervention in 2003 in Iraq because it has wiped out all forms of state in Iraq and Baghdad. Contrary to what Mr Franken says, this is one of the causes of the current situation and the dangerousness of life in this city. It has been recognized as one of the most dangerous cities in the world because there is no longer a state. Civil war is ubiquitous in this territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u257	Mr Hedebouw, I have never said that it is not dangerous in Badgad; if you say that, it is not right and then you say falsehoods. I never said that. The asylum applications are dealt with by the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless, and he does so in an independent and correct way, in my view. On the basis of a number of elements presented to him by EASO, the European Asylum Service, and by his experts, the CGV protection officers, he has decided to introduce a decision stop for Iraq. Today the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless, Mr Van den Bulck, decided in complete independence to lift that decision-making stop. Baghdad is no longer regarded as a 15C area today, which means, in concrete terms, that a person from that city is not automatically given subsidiary protection. Many people from Badgad will still be protected, but no longer automatically. Mr Hedebouw, you claim or at least insinuate that I said Baghdad is a safe city. Please, that's just not right. It's intellectually very unfair of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u258	Mr Hedebouw, you have half a minute left.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u259	Half a minute? Mr Secretary of State, I find it difficult to answer in half a minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u260	I'll bet!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u261	I also have to finish my own speech. Mr Secretary of State, I would just like to say that you wanted to make a clear distinction. You have publicly communicated that there was much less problem in Iraq. In fact, you should dare to tell the public that Iraq is no longer a real state, that there is no security for the people and that security for the people is not organized at all. I will close here, Prime Minister, by relaying this incredible balance of power that was present, again last week, in the streets of Brussels. You have had the honour of having under your nose, this past year, the two largest demonstrations that our country has witnessed since the 1980s. 100,000 people. And last year's: 120,000 people. This is the demonstration that people's anger, but also the mobilization of people, have not ended. Today, this fight is going to continue with only one difference from last year – as I said to Mr Verherstraeten at times: the social movement has learned as a lesson that these so-called social parties in the government, who have made it look like there would be a tax on wealth in return for social peace, have deceived the social movement. It is this maturity that I felt in Brussels, the maturity of a social movement that says: "You are not going to trap us a second time. You are not going to make us believe, again today, that through some adjustments we will stop". That is why we, as PTB, will do everything we can to continue social mobilization. We will start with demonstrations, at the invitation of the PTB, on 15 November in the streets of Brussels to continue the fight against your government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u262	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, the People's Party has taken note of your government's statement and is pleased that you have highlighted some of the measures that were in our party's agenda, such as the first job created or, in the area of justice, pleaded guilty. We therefore believe that you are in the right direction, particularly in the socio-economic or security aspect. But, unfortunately, you stop on the way because you didn't see the real stakes. Therefore, you will not have the expected results either in the short or in the medium term. The country needs deeper and faster reforms. The tax shift is an embryo of measurements. They are insufficient in the light of the Belgian, European or global economic situation. You say you spend less, spend better. But you always spend in an inconsiderate way, especially by maintaining power levels that are obsolete and have no more reason to exist. Let's call it the Senate. I would like to mention Mrs Onkelinx, who indirectly admitted that this very expensive and no longer productive body was useless in view of the various reforms of the State. Its budget is also higher than that of State Security. That is why the People's Party would have liked a greater reform in terms of spending rather than still affecting workers and the middle class by increasing excise duties on alcohol, tobacco or diesel. At the time of digitalisation and as you say you want to bring our country into the top 3 in Europe, you subsidise bpost to the tune of 200 million to transport the paper press, which is disappearing. So-called subsidies to pluralism, but mainly aimed at blocking the system for the benefit of traditional parties. You are right to say that it is out of the question of pouring into a form of triumphalism. We are still far from an ambitious policy, which would certainly raise shields on the left, but which would bring us out of the ruts in which we have been stuck for so many years now. An example of a lack of ambition: it was not the first job to be exempted from social security contributions but the first three jobs, so as to have a rapid impact on the unemployment rate. You understood, however, that 99% of businesses are very small or small and medium-sized, but you only propose a half measure. A significant reduction in unemployment would have an immediate impact not only on government spending but also on direct or indirect income. On a number of other points, and in particular on European integration, I will refer you to the quote of Bossuet, who said: "God laughs at men who deplore the effects whose causes they cherish". Indeed, you say that you are confronted with a paradox in the construction sector, whose activities have increased but which suffers a real haemorrhage of jobs from national workers. We are talking here about social dumping. Neither your government nor Europe can stem this phenomenon. You are subject to European rules, which makes it impossible for you to take effective measures to counter this unfair competition. We want to fight arms trafficking, we want to fight social dumping, we want to regulate the arrival of migrants but we leave everything open and we suffer the consequences, regardless of national security or tax evasion or the impoverishment of our social security system. The association of 28 countries certainly has advantages, particularly in terms of trade, but as long as this Europe is reluctant to pursue policies worthy of this name, in these matters you will again come to draw on the portfolio of workers and social recipients. Prime Minister, you continue to run after chimeras, whether at the climate level, at the energy level or at the level of the fight against poverty. In terms of climate, you have two lines, no more, in your statement. No doubt it was for fear of reprisals from our colleagues at Ecolo-Groen. Are you, the so-called liberal right, going to get involved in a decline due to the lack of reduction of CO2 emissions? I'll remind you of some information. The United Nations is in possession of a report that states that "the more CO2 there is, the more fauna, flora and vegetation develop".
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u263	Can you quote your sources?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u264	This is a United Nations report. Yes, I can send it to you. In terms of energy, you say a few words to try to solve the current problems of stopping several nuclear units and not to plunge the country into darkness this winter. But you have no ambition on the medium and the long term. We must not be afraid to say that we will have to invest in nuclear energy of the last generation and not in wind energy which is only intermittent and which costs our citizens very much, whether financial or quality of life. In this case, too, a German study shows the harmful nature of wind turbine infrasounds. I pass to you the episodes of recourse of the associations of citizens who do not want to see their landscape disturbed by these large mills that produce only when the winds are favourable, that is to say 20% of the time. In order to compensate for this lack of production, gas and coal power plants are put back into operation with obviously a release of CO2 into the atmosphere. In the area of health and the fight against poverty, you propose dichotomous measures. Indeed, you let in almost without control all the so-called refugee candidates in whose head I remind you, according to the Commissioner-General of CGRA, that 20% of citizenship fraud is detected. You exclude the unemployed, you favour families to support those who pretend to be political refugees and who are not people who flee the war but who come here in search of a better life. In addition, you want to focus on the well-being of our homeless people you want at any cost to rehouse. It's a wise decision. But where and in what buildings? There are already no places for migrants. You're up to speed by adapting old barracks or disused hospitals that will, because of the heating, blow up your budget when the temperatures become negative, that is, in a few days' time. In addition, you import into us the problem that they live at home. The latest incidents in Germany or in our centres demonstrate this in sufficiency. Always in your reasoning, you want to fight terrorism and let yourself in and even come back from jihadists, without any form of coercion. Where is the logic in your policy? I say it on behalf of the 100,000 Walloons and Brusselsans who voted for our party. This government is not up to the challenges and dangers that threaten us. That is why we will not vote for confidence, but we refuse to join those who may wish to return to business in implementing the same measures. That is why I will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u265	The government has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u266	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank everyone. Mrs Onkelinx was the first speaker to speak about democracy in her speech. That is an important point on which we must agree. After all, it is crucial that we ask ourselves about the vitality of our democracy. It is also fundamental that we show respect for all opinions, thereby giving us the opportunity to have fundamental discussions and debates on the future of our country in the socio-economic field, but also on other very delicate challenges, such as the issue of refugees, which is a very delicate challenge for the future. Mr Nollet, another example is the Paris Conference and the important consequences for future generations. It is, it seems to me, the honour of a democratic State to have the capacity to exchange opinions. Democracy is the diversity of appreciation of the revenues to be implemented. I hope that all or almost all of us share a number of objectives, namely to ensure that our economy is stronger and that solidarity is greater and more effective. A year ago, this government started on the basis of a strong commitment and a strong principle. What's that strong principle? The conviction that strengthening our economic model is important for the future. It is not a question of strengthening the economy against a social approach. On the contrary, it is a question of strengthening our economy with a view to consolidating solidarity and social security. I am often surprised when I hear people systematically putting the economy against social engagements in some banks. There's no point. I think it is ridiculous to systematically create the image that support for the economy does not involve solidarity. What makes our task difficult and difficult also the political moment in which we stand is to achieve fiscal consolidation and to achieve structural balance in 2018 in order to avoid postponing our bills to future generations – this is a matter of responsibility – and, at the same time, to take economic and social measures to create a virtuous circle for consolidation, but above all to give a chance to the creation of activities and jobs. To support investment-friendly measures is to support employment measures. Support for employment is to support purchasing power and the fight against poverty as well as long-term financing of social protections. That is the commitment we are implementing. I will of course not repeat what I said yesterday in this rostrum, nor will I repeat the statements made by members of the majority. I will only touch on a few points. First of all, with regard to consolidation, we are again presenting an adjusted budget, with a structural effort of 0.6%, in line with European commitments. Same for 2016. We are indeed following a multi-year path, being aware – I agree with a lot of modesty and humility – that this government, like all the others, will have to regularly monitor, monitor the situation in order to be able to adapt the necessary measures to keep the course of fiscal consolidation. In the same way, because we want to be serious, we have decided to set up regular monitoring, in parallel with budgetary monitoring, on the implementation of economic and fiscal reforms, on the tax shift, in order to make it effective for the competitiveness and purchasing power of our citizens. I would also like to point out that, alongside the efforts that are being called for in the area of sanitation, we are taking measures for economic recovery and activity. Two important points appear in the tax shift. First of all, it is about the competitiveness of enterprises. It's an expression that some people don't like. Mr Hedebouw, you consider these to be gifts to companies. We believe, for our part, that these are investments in employment and, therefore, in social protection. There is also a way of looking at things with slogans and rhetorical formulas. We have decided to take decisions and take action. A year ago, in the government agreement, we announced that we would increase the wage burden from 33 per cent to 25 per cent. The commitment is kept, with particular attention to the lowest wages, because we are convinced – as all the study offices have shown – that this is where the ability to quickly create jobs is located. That is the commitment we have made and have kept. We are convinced that it should be possible in our country to better support SMEs and the self-employed. For us, SMEs and the self-employed are a partner for prosperity and for the opportunity to offer everyone a better future. That is why we have taken very concrete and important decisions, with even more than EUR 1 billion of support for SMEs and the self-employed and with three major commitments. Firstly, aid for investment, with a doubling of the current investment deduction measure for SMEs and the self-employed. This is a clear signal that we are sending, with concrete effects on our economy in the short, medium and long term. Secondly, the purchasing power of the self-employed. Mrs Fonck spoke about this. We are convinced that this point also counts. Work must be rewarded more. That is also a commitment we are making. It's historical. We're going from 20 to 20.5 per cent. Why am I saying it's historical? Not to brawl or to do in the spectacular, but simply because, for decades, we've never seen this. One had never seen a government reduce the rate of contributions to increase the purchasing power of the self-employed. The third extremely important point for us is commitment and hiring. It's consistent. We encourage investment, we encourage hiring, it goes hand in hand. How long have I been hearing from self-employed people and SMEs say, "The hardest part is the first job". For a small baker, a carpenter, a craftsman, a merchant, crossing the threshold of the first job is a strong, extraordinary, extraordinary decision which, I want to say again, will have an effect. You have been many, also in the opposition, to underline the benefit of this measure. I'm glad. This shows that, beyond divides, commitments for SMEs and self-employed can be supported together. In one year's time, we have also taken important measures for key sectors of our economy. Everyone here knows that the catering sector is a very specific sector. I have very few arguments to put forward to prove that the catering sector is a very specific sector. For this sector, we have made very important decisions in a few months' time, for example in the area of overtime and flexi-jobs. This is a clear signal for an important sector, which offers a real chance for this sector to have more jobs in the future. We are also aware of the fact that we are very open on this point that the construction sector is facing a very difficult challenge today in Belgium and in other European countries, such as the Netherlands and France. It's a strange paradox. There is an increase and strengthening of activities in the Belgian construction sector, but not for our companies. After all, there is a direct effect of social dumping. A few months ago, the government, on the initiative of the Secretary of State and following a perfect consultation with the construction sector, drew up a plan of concrete measures and concrete commitments to combat social dumping. Is that enough? No, it's not enough. Should we do more and better? Yeah, we need to do more and better. Within the tax shift there is room to do even more and better. We will continue to work with the Minister of Work and with the other relevant ministers and hold thorough and serious consultations with the sector. In this way, we will be able to take the best and most concrete measures to offer the construction sector a positive future, including the obsession with job creation and support for more jobs. Yesterday I was given the opportunity to talk about digitisation. Here too, we have made important commitments in a few months, such as support for start-ups, crowdfunding, the possibility of supporting start-ups through more funding and important fiscal incentives. These are also concrete steps and concrete decisions to support job creation. Much can be blamed on this government. All governments receive criticism. It's normal, it's democratic debate when you act, when you make decisions, when you take responsibilities. But everyone has to admit here that in a very short time, within a few weeks or months, we have made a lot of decisions, with each time, an obsession, a driving thread – I want to say with a smile, with a red thread – and this red thread, it is the desire to create more jobs, to create the context that gives the ability to more economic activity. I now come to purchasing power. Much has been said about this. I hear the reasonings of each other Here too, we have taken an important direction. We are focusing on support for more purchasing power for low and middle wages. That is what we want to send out a clear signal. It is the best way to support internal consumption and hence internal growth. I have heard some say that this is not right because we take with one hand what we have given with the other. I contest this reasoning. I totally refute it. We will have the opportunity in committee when we look at the budget, the tax measures, to demonstrate that people who have lows and lows are largely benefiting from this process of strengthening purchasing power. There is a fundamental difference with the past – I take the part; I belong to a party that was part of the previous government. Previously, almost every budget or budget control increased the excise duty on tobacco and alcohol. Tax revenue measures were taken but not to give more purchasing power, not to give more net wages and therefore freedom of choice. This was done to balance budgets. That's a big difference. Our commitment is strong. We offer more purchasing power to the people who work and who want to work. Finally, I would like to point out to you that, when I look at the map of Europe, we are one of the first countries in Belgium that has managed in just a few months to make a tax slide of such magnitude. In all European countries debates are open, in the press, in political parties, but there are no decisions that have been taken as is the case today in our country to guide this strategy of support for economic development and activity with – and that is not annoyance whatsoever – more than EUR 8 billion that are mobilised as fuel to support our country's economic engine and to guide the ability to generate development, employment and activity. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the responsibility of a government is to work for economic development, for social protection. We do. It is also to live up to the responsibilities when we face the challenge of security, security for our citizens. Security is one of the main responsibilities of public authorities. Here too, we are aware of the situation. Over the last few months and years, we have faced very difficult challenges. We were faced with a new form of danger, a new risk to our fellow citizens. Terrorism, radicalism and fanaticism are new dangers that clearly go against our fundamental values and principles, against our democracy. I have noted that there is broad support, wider than the majority, for the government's fight against terrorism and radicalism. I believe that this is an important signal for all democrats. In a few months, we have put in place a strategy. Twelve counter-terrorism measures to begin with: all have been implemented and implemented. By the way, I'm a little surprised. On the one hand, we are accused of using too much urgency in parliament. On the other hand, we are told that this is not fast enough in the implementation of the measures. On terrorism in any case, we have managed to implement twelve measures in a few months. The capacity of the task forces was increased, which was necessary. I am a little embarrassed to say that we discovered to the government that the assault rifles of our intervention teams were gifts given by the Netherlands. They're totally downgraded rifles. So we've mobilized resources. I fully assume my share of responsibility on all levels. Security concerns the means, the capacity to strengthen investigative techniques, the ability to put our legislation in order. This is also important to us. I look at what is happening abroad, both in Europe and in America. It is our responsibility to always strike a balance between the fundamental right to security and other fundamental human rights and privacy in the fight against terrorism. This is a delicate challenge and an important principle for us. It is our responsibility to fight terrorists, to defend democracy with respect for the rule of law. And that is also the commitment we make and want to constantly implement. Justice is important in a democracy. An independent justice system that has the means to carry out its mission. In a few months we launched the first reforms. First of all, the reform of civil procedure, in order to try to ensure that it is more effective, more rapid in the way in which decisions are rendered. Secondly, we will soon begin work in Parliament on criminal procedure reform, with the guilty plea that can be debated in Parliament, with a view to facilitating and speeding up a number of procedures. We also managed in a few months to completely clear the backlog of outstanding invoices in the Department of Justice. It is also a clear message, showing the will to put our country in order. Once again, Belgium is a small country in the heart of Europe, with strong European and international anchors. This is important for Belgium. It is also important for the government to play an active role at European and international level. As I said yesterday and just now, everyone knows that we in our country must, of course, do our best to take measures to ensure a positive future. At the same time, however, it is very important that a positive and efficient strategy is also defined at European level for achieving success in the socio-economic field. I am pleased that this new European Commission has decided to consider that it is not just a matter of putting budgets in order, but of doing more than that in terms of economic recovery, of undertaking structural reforms for fiscal convergence and the labour market, of supporting investment strategies in Europe, of building confidence and of mobilising investment to support economic growth, and we are fully committed to this strategy. Finally, Europe can try to develop effective economic strategies. Europe can benefit from the situation of oil prices and the situation of the euro as elements that can have a positive impact on its economy, but Europe will be in difficulty, in the coming months or years, if there is no more stability in the neighbourhood of Europe. Europe's neighbours are also a crucial issue. Everyone here will agree that the situation in Ukraine is unstable today. As far as our relationship with Russia is concerned, strong diplomatic action is needed, because Russia will be a neighbour of Europe for the rest of our lives. We're not gonna change geography. We therefore have an interest in creating the conditions for a forward-looking political dialogue with Russia, protecting our partnership with a number of countries on the border with the European Union. In the south of Europe, there is a situation in Iraq, Syria and Libya. That is why we must mobilize at the international level, we must make progress in the strategic plan for defence, make clear commitments to ensure that Belgium remains a reliable, credible partner to participate in securing Europe's borders. It is a question of security and stability for ourselves, with security but also economic and social dimensions. The better our neighbours will be, the more peace, stability and economic development in our neighbours, the more we will benefit from it in Europe and Belgium. This is an extremely important point to stress. Many of you have spoken on the issue of refugees. We have been confronted with one of the most complex situations since the Second World War, which is the direct result of areas of conflict, wars, and sometimes also climate change, which have an influence on migratory phenomena. Within a few weeks before the summer months, we were confronted with this sudden influx, all over Europe. We have managed, day after day, week after week, with the various actors I want to greet (the Red Cross, Fedasil, NGOs, citizens' associations) to fully assume our responsibilities. Thousands of places have been created in a few weeks to be up to the challenge. We have put in place, and it was not simple, a pre-reception that never existed. For the first time, a government has organized, for unregistered persons, a minimal reception with the will to do so in dignity. It was not easy, but we did the work in question. It was the honour of the government to succeed in welcoming in dignity those who fled war, armed conflict and death. We have fully assumed this responsibility. [[Applause]] The work is not done. We will continue this difficult work day after day, week after week. And we will also continue to work on a distribution plan, as I indicated and the Secretary of State said in his reply a few moments ago. We have argued at European level for mandatory solidarity between European countries. We must be consistent, and we must also organize this solidarity at home. We are making every effort to succeed in presenting a distribution plan so that effort and responsibility are shared throughout the communes and throughout the country. I could talk to you about energy. I could talk to you about mobility where we are also trying to launch strategies and initiatives to meet our responsibilities. Mr Nollet, I could tell you that for the Paris Declaration, I share your conviction. This is an important moment. A few months ago, in preparation for the Paris Conference, we were in the European fora among the most advanced countries in the European Union to advocate for a uniform European position in this context. We will continue in the days and weeks that have just tried to play a useful role in relation to that. We plead, for example, for binding standards. Not all countries argue in this direction. We will also continue the dialogue with the Regions on this subject in an attempt to have a position taken by the various governments, at the federal level as well as by the federated entities. It's not a simple thing. It is a subject with delicate consequences for federated entities. Here too, we will be mobilized, and here too we want to live up to this important meeting. I share the reasoning with you on this. I conclude with two points which I would briefly like to highlight. Firstly, yes, at the start of the government, we said that social dialogue is important. Social dialogue has played an important role in our history. Social dialogue is not easy. It provides for a permanent and regular dialogue between the Government, the social partners and the Group of Ten. We must always do our best for a positive dialogue, with respect for everyone's role. On the one hand, there is the government, with the support of a parliamentary majority, which has a political responsibility and has to take decisions; on the other hand, there are the social partners, who can have added value. The approach we have taken is to try to learn from the discussions we have had in recent months, the Group of Ten and Government, since the beginning of the legislature, in order to see how we can work even better with the social partners in the coming months. We believe that when there is a budgetary impact, the government must naturally assume its full responsibility. We believe that the government agreement is a parameter that must be taken into account. We are constantly keeping this delicate exercise going. Political responsibility must be assumed by the government and the parliament. The social partners have their full responsibility to participate, to be engaged in the capacity to carry out reforms in the general interest. It is in this line that we register. Of course, we probably won't always agree on everything. As in previous legislatures, there have not always been agreements on everything between previous governments and parliaments, but there is a willingness to give this consultation a real chance. We're a year away. We are, of course, aware that the coalition is new compared to the previous federal coalitions. We are also convinced that federal loyalty is important. I included the commitment yesterday in my statement. We want to do our best, work for a serene dialogue between the federal government and the Länder. We hope that everyone will share that commitment with us. This is important for the future. I conclude by telling you that we started only a year ago. And it seemed to me long, long, so much we have carried out important reforms in a year. A great deal of work has been done. A great many decisions have been taken. We have made the choice to refuse immobilism. We have sometimes made the choice of making decisions that are difficult to explain, from which it is difficult to convince, but basically, the project we are carrying is a project based on hope and trust. That's our ambition. This is our commitment: to be able to convince and reconnect with hope and trust. Trust and hope are two fundamental elements for the future. That is our political will. That is our political commitment. Will that be easy? No. We're doing a good job. That's my belief. There's still a lot of work for us. We're motivated. We are determined. There is a solid, coherent majority that will continue to move forward. Thank you for giving us confidence so that we can continue working together for the recovery of our country. [[Vif applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u267	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I think we have seen a good debate. You were talking about democratic vitality. There were frank exchanges. We've seen differences in ideas, projects, designs. We exchanged them. It made our assembly live. It's a very good thing and I'm happy about it. That being said, I do not fully agree with what you have just said, Prime Minister. It is not because we have debates that we must agree on their outcome. In particular, you say that necessarily the strengthening of the economy causes, in a way, more social cohesion. The founding fathers of Europe thought the same thing at the beginning. Moreover, they said that economic intervention was primarily necessary and that economic well-being would necessarily lead to an improvement in social well-being. They must note that the two do not necessarily go together and that we must work at the same time on strengthening the economy, of course, but also on the social aspect in terms of employment, social security and the fight against poverty. The two dimensions are intimately intertwined. That is why we cannot agree with some of your proposals. You say, almost naively, that it is enough to reduce social contributions so that there is a rise in employment. Prime Minister, we didn't wait for you to promote reductions in social contributions. They were granted which supported employment, linked to the granting of new jobs and structural reductions, as you do with another method. All those who examined the effects found that this had little effect on job creation, simply because a large part of the profits were in some way absorbed by businesses for their own profit. It is in this sense that reconciliation between the economy and employment requires proposals for convergence. That's what you're not doing. Another example where you have a logic of confrontation between companies and workers. That's what you decided on the index jump. You're making an index jump. It's a puncture, a 2% tax. It's not nothing! And why are you doing it? To support the competitiveness of enterprises without any employment obligation. For the workers, it is an effort and, for the companies, it is any benefit. In this sense, you support the confrontation between economic and social. That's what I don't want for the future. That is what can call into question our social and economic model. You say that supporting employment is supporting purchasing power. Yes, except that you do the opposite, since the vast majority of the measures that you put on the table – measures that, as I said earlier, can be positive in their goal – are funded from the purchasing power of the population. All the taxes on consumption, all the means taken from the index jump, is obviously a reduced purchasing power. With this reduced purchasing power, you weigh on confidence and weigh on growth. At least the Prime Minister has acknowledged that, for the time being, it is not Byzantium. In recent years, we have succeeded in ensuring that Belgium is consistently above the European average in terms of growth. Since this government, you are below the European average in terms of growth. It's not for nothing. You're talking about the trajectory by saying, "This government is going to clean up and we're going to respect the European trajectory." I said earlier that, to respect her, you still have a lot of work to do. You said you were missing a billion in July. Evaluations are folkloric, excuse me for a little! You continued the gifts for the post 2018 and 2019 period. This adds to the difficulty of absorbing the budget deficit, but I have just learned today that in reality you are actually weighing – you acknowledge it by a letter you send to the Regions – a large part of the effort on the Regions and on the municipalities because a little less than a billion of your policy will have to be financed by the Regions and a little more than 250 million by the municipalities. And you say it's serious! Is it serious to conduct policies that you don't know how to pay for? Is it serious to send the bill to the Regions and the Communities, Prime Minister? I do not think so, and I do not believe that consultation with the Regions will improve from the moment you make offensive choices against regional and communal institutions. You mentioned the increase in pocket salary and, as I said at the outset, I think wage increases are a good thing. All work deserves pay and a good salary, it's obvious. Unfortunately, this increase was absorbed by index jumps and consumption taxes. You say that there are debates on the figures, but you cannot contest our objective, except that Mr Laaouej, earlier, gave figures that are indisputable. Don't think it's a bias because it's a member of my group! It is a simple and modest observation that he is one of the best specialists in this assembly! What do you want? Isn't that right, Mr President of the Finance Committee? Challenge him, if his numbers aren't correct. It simply says that the index jump is 3.7 billion, that the consumption taxes are 2.7 billion, a total of 6.4 billion taken from individuals; and a reform of the PPI, reductions for 3.772 billion. Do your calculations as you like: the account is not there. What you've done is a wonderful communication exercise. In another life, Prime Minister – I have too much respect for the office to hold you another profession – you could have been a wonderful trade representative. But there, you sell a commodity that is obviously not what the population expected. You are in a way misleading those who were waiting for a real tax shift, namely more means for wages and less means for the holders of large capital. Prime Minister, you have touched on the issue of public services. You talked about justice. You're right to say there was a one shot. You can't say otherwise. This one shot was welcome to stamp out late invoices from the department. On the other hand, spend one of these days, if you have time, in the Justice Committee when actors are heard. One after another weeps about the state of justice, about the means you give to the judiciary. The highest authorities, and particularly at the level of the Court of Cassation, say that it is still unheard of that a government thus undermines the third power of the State. It's still not nothing as a statement. I think, Prime Minister, that in terms of public services, you are completely in line with your nationalist ally who wanted to hurt Belgium by hurting federal public services. Finally, you talked about the refugees. When something's right, I point it out. You said you had increased the number of seats. That's right. But you'd shut it down first. Whatever it is, you've opened it. You're still excited to say that you've organized a pre-reception for the first time. It happens that I managed in part... If you think what happened in the Maximilian Park was a pre-reception, I disagree. The major problem, which was continually highlighted in the discussions with the City of Brussels, which made an extraordinary effort in the area of pre-reception, was simply the limit of 250 people heard a day. You're the one who set that number. We've asked you a thousand times to change your mind. Since you haven't changed your attitude, there have been major problems on the ground. I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the associations, which have done a great job. In particular, I met with members of the citizens' platform, as you certainly did. There were young people there, young people at work, who took their annual leave to do permanences at Maximilian Park. We can thank them for having done such an act of volunteerism in favour of the dignity of the reception of refugees. On the other hand, you are announcing that there will be a mandatory allocation plan. That's very good, we're waiting for him. If you do it properly, we will support it because I am right: solidarity must be shared on all the shoulders that can help in this area. That is what I wanted to tell you, Prime Minister, in response to your reply. Tonight, you summarized your speech from yesterday. You have not been very explicit about some of the emergencies that have been reported in this rostrum. I am thinking of the climate emergency and the digital revolution. You have barely touched on the dimension of democratic vitality. Other assemblies took the problem with arms-to-body. You also spoke very briefly about the state of the world. This is not an end, but a beginning. Let's continue the debate. You will understand, of course, that because of your choices, my group – will that surprise you? – will not vote trust. [[Applause on the opposition benches]] [[.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u268	Prime Minister, I will keep my reply brief. In your reply, you actually sold the same good news show you sold yesterday, Tuesday. The reality, however, on the street, among the people, is very different. You claim that you are doing well, Prime Minister, but you are not doing well for a large part of the citizens. People feel really hurt by your policy. People are on to it. There are very few who truly believe you. You will know, at the moment there is a poll on a news site asking whether people really think your tax shift is progressive and social. Ninety percent disagree. Ninety percent! So either you need to change your policy, Prime Minister, or you need to talk to those people to get a better understanding.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u269	Prime Minister, a year ago, even if we were already opposed to your choices, your orientations and your proposals, we could give you the benefit of the doubt. Today, a year later, we seriously doubt the benefits of your policies. When I say "we", it's not only the Ecolo-Green group, it's also all those I mentioned earlier who feel excluded from your choices. You have chosen a category of the population. You have targeted and left out other categories of the population. That is not what we expect from a government that says it is the representative of the whole country, of all families and of all businesses in the country. Young people, those over 55, those with social difficulties, all those there are forgotten about your reform. They also doubt the benefit of your policy and they are right. Your proposals are not up to social challenges, economic challenges and environmental challenges. I would like to return with you to the climate challenge. You went up here to the gallery and I drew your attention to the matter. You have repeatedly called our group. You say you take your responsibilities. I asked you about your concrete commitment to reducing CO2 emissions, energy efficiency and renewable energy development. What is your encrypted commitment? At the limit a small table like the one you submitted for the budget might be useful but we did not have anything in your text yesterday and we have nothing in your reply today. You have a principle: "we will assume our responsibilities". Yes, but in a month's time, the responsibilities will be at the level of concrete commitments. On this point, I would like to allow you to interrupt me, if you could at least give us Belgium's encrypted commitments. I was asking you the question earlier. It seems to me important that we can understand today what your sentence on the responsibility you want to undertake entails as concrete commitments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u270	Mr Nollet, you excel in the art of pretending not to have heard what has been said. So I am going with great pleasure and satisfaction to explain it to you again. It seemed to me that in another life you had assumed responsibilities in a regional government. You are therefore particularly aware that in Belgium there is a division of powers between the federal state and the federated entities in the field of energy. When you were in business on the subject, obviously the governments, including the one to which you belonged, never managed to really agree on energy strategies. We want to mobilize, including in the coming days and weeks, to try to bring together international, federal and regional ambitions and commitments, including figures, which we managed to do in European debates, for example, a few months ago at the European Council, when we managed to speak with one voice on a number of issues. We're going to have to continue this work before the Paris Conference. Is it simple? No, it's not easy. Are we going to do everything we can to succeed? Yes, we will do everything we can to succeed. It is in this sense that I say that we take and that we will take on our responsibilities. At European level, we have always supported an ambitious approach to climate change, taking into account also the economic reality of Europe, the economic reality of Belgium and our regions. That's the way we're going.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u271	I hear what you're saying and I hear the principle. I want to subscribe to it, but that's the principle. The government to which I had the honour and the chance to belong has given itself a numerical objective. So we're criticizing him and you're criticizing him. According to your party, it was too ambitious with 20% renewable energy and 40% CO2 reduction. That was in the figures and it was adopted in a decree. You thought it was too ambitious at the time, but today it's your turn, it's your responsibility. You are not going to say that this policy belongs exclusively to the Regions. You know very well that the federal level has a responsibility. In terms of energy efficiency, let's take SNCB, it's a federal jurisdiction! Let's take renewable energies, offshore wind is a federal jurisdiction. We like it or we don't like it, but we won't have your numbers! You also say in the rostrum, and the sentence has a beginning of interest, that you plead – not all countries – for a binding agreement. Constraint for what? For the 3°C? If we sum up the commitments of the 140 countries that have deposited one for Paris, we know that we are going in the wall for the 3°C. Can you at least assure us that it is below the 1.5 to 2°C defined by the IPCC? The binding is not even encrypted in your text. Could we agree on this today?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u272	You choose the derision, you choose the absurd. I can tell you again in French or Dutch, it is a responsibility shared by the Federal State and the Regions. If the federal government commits itself alone to Belgium on such a subject, we would be in default of the institutional rules of our country! But keep pretending not to understand the message! We agreed on the principle of a binding nature, but the precision of our commitment is and will still be the subject of discussions between the various governments. You should know that, but you obviously have a short memory on this, Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u273	Excuse me, but when I raised the issue of binding commitment around 1.5 or 2 degrees Celsius, it was not a question of Walloon Region or federal state, but of global commitment. I guess you know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u274	When a country participates in an international conference, it defends its political position. You don't understand that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u275	As far as your government is concerned, at least give us your point of reference.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u276	The federal government is negotiating with the Regions on this issue. You know this perfectly and you lower the level of the debate in a rather desolating way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u277	Of course, when you are under pressure, you criticise the level of the debate, while we ask you for a precise and precise element. It's the same with the budget. In view of such an issue, asking the Belgian Government to accept that the limit is 1.5 or 2 degrees Celsius, it is still too much for you! Frankly, with this kind of commitment, you will not go far at the Paris Conference. Belgium has so far been a leader in climate change; it is no longer a leader in climate change. I express a real regret. On the social side, I will not go back to what has been said. It's no use, because I wasn't going to get angry in the gallery, even though I was forced to do so because of your last speech. I almost regret it. I will go back to the relationship between the opposition and the majority between Parliament and your government. You recalled what we ourselves have criticized, namely that your government has regularly called for urgency. On 27 occasions, your government has called for an emergency in a year. I believe, Prime Minister, that this should not be repeated next year. It's not good, it's not healthy. I can understand that, at times, there is a need for urgency because we have to react to a current situation. We can mobilize. We've already done it. But when we repeat this systematically, in order to avoid an in-depth debate, to prevent the Council of State from giving its opinion within the deadlines which allow it to enter into the substance of the matter, I think that, on this, you should be able to make a commitment, even silent, not to proceed in such a massive way to an urgent request to Parliament. The second and final element in this area – Mr Borsus probably had to debrief you about this – in the Conference of Presidents – and I thank Mr Dewael for supporting this request – we opened a debate on the organisation of our work in the period between mid-July and mid-October. I ask you to pay attention to this and to be able to open it positively so that we can start our work in plenary as soon as 1 September, so that we do not have to write to the President every time, as we have done, to get his agreement and the agreement of the chairman of the committee or the minister concerned, which may allow him to use a veto. This does not seem normal to us. There may be historical considerations behind this symbolic date of the second Tuesday of October, but the Constitution does not prevent us from meeting in plenary before that date. I would simply ask you to have a positive opening to a reflection which is now under way and which will continue in the Conference of Presidents so that the beginning of September can be set for the beginning of September and that it will no longer be postponed until mid-October. We have experienced this with the tax shift – the Minister of Finance is here – two or three times – my colleague Gilkinet could say that with the other colleagues in the Finance Committee – a committee meeting was planned. Then it was cancelled, postposed, re-annuled, rested and cancelled. It's not normal. In a proper parliament, which meets as early as 1 September, the Standing Committees must be able to meet every week. That is the call I make to you to conclude on an open note, hoping that you will respond positively in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u278	Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the comments made by Mr Onkelinx and Mr Nollet: we have had a good and spicy debate. We have taken steps forward compared to last year and that is only good for the appearance of our assembly. Mr Prime Minister, I note that the more specific the questions are, the more difficult the answers for the government. As it turned out yesterday, this has to do with hollow words and hollow phrases. In that respect, I am quite optimistic: I believe in all the fellow countrymen who are smarter than that and who do not allow themselves to believe that they are all going to improve and that the government is doing well for them. The fairytale of the good news show will soon perish. There's another reason I have faith in the future. I fundamentally disagree with Mr Vuye on this. It's about the potential of our country. I insist on repeating it: it is very difficult for me to understand that the leader of the largest Flemish party, basically the engine of our country, in Parliament, is simply saying that Belgium is a sick country. I fundamentally disagree with that. I believe in the potential of our country, and that is a second reason why I am optimistic. The third reason is what we feel, Prime Minister. Reference was made to the commitment in the Maximilian Park. There is the shift among businesses and civil society who advocate climate change. Employers and entrepreneurs are in favour of fair taxation and want to go beyond what Mr Van Overtveldt is proposing here today. Something's moving, there's a lot of positive forces in society. If Parliament and the majority join forces with those people, then we will move forward. A fourth reason I'm optimistic is that urging works. Pressing as an opposition works in Parliament. We have noticed this today with the ad hoc committee on Dieselgate, the reform of the parliamentary calendar and also with regard to the tax shift. I am very critical of the tax shift and Tita wizard Van Rompuy is far too generous in calculating capital taxes, but a year ago, Prime Minister, you did not talk about a tax shift for the summer. That is what we have achieved with the opposition, with Hart over Hard, with the union. [[Laughter]] You laugh at that, Prime Minister, but you did not take the commitment to a tax reform before the recess here a year ago. You had to take that over the past year, because you felt that there had been a social majority and that there was social pressure for fair taxation. Am I saying that as an opposition we run this country? Of course not. (Protests from Minister Jambon) Mr Jambon, I did not say that, nor do I say that we are on the buttons. I'm just saying that under pressure from Hart Boven Hard, from the trade unions and the opposition, the government is obliged to accelerate that exercise. You have been sitting here with a very black and yellow army in the past legislature, and you have debated an entire legislature against the French-speaking tax government. What did you move that government into? Did you force them to tackle a yard like the fiscal reform? No. So I am actually proud of that first year of parliamentary work and the results of the opposition. If one insists, one takes steps forward. I'm not extremely patient, but I have patience. Mr Vuye, it is a matter of time before it is said and written that what Prime Minister Charles Michel, built in 1975, Servais Verherstraeten, Hendrik Vuye and Patrick Dewael said in 2015 in Parliament was old school, that people were afraid of the taboos that are still on the table. It is a matter of time before that great capital contribution comes, because there is a fertile ground. Our country is not yet hyper-healthy, not yet in good shape, but it is capable of much more than the government is trying to propose.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u279	Mr President, Prime Minister, I thank you for your cross-cutting and general response, which makes sense. We will have the opportunity to revisit all these debates and to peel the details to see if they correspond to what you have announced in recent days. I raised a number of issues earlier, but I would like to focus in my reply on the socio-economic aspect only, and perhaps also take advantage of your presence to talk about how Parliament and the government are working. You said that the support of the economy pushes solidarity forward. I agree with you, provided that the efforts requested are fair, that this is effective in terms of job creation and that the objectives that have been set are achieved. Whether it's about fairness or efficiency, you didn't provide a numerical answer and you didn't convince me. You are in a logic of taxes to gogo, you are in a logic of sacrifices that you ask people. I would like to re-target, through this, an important element that I mentioned this afternoon: health. You justify it in the name of job creation. At the same time, in the face of these enormous sacrifices that you are asking for, not once, you do not commit yourself to an ambitious, quantified goal of job creation. Yes, I think jobs will be created at the level of small and medium-sized enterprises and the self-employed. But will it be 10,000, 20,000, 50,000, thousands? I don't know. But, Prime Minister, your roadmap should have had a very clear target of 400 000 jobs by 2020 in order to meet the European target, validated at the Council of Ministers, of an employment rate of 73%. My colleague has just mentioned two or three subjects and I can join him on these points. Prime Minister, today I would like to take this opportunity to speak to a debate that we will have on Friday on Minister Geens' Justice bill. I'm sorry he's gone. Majority and opposition agreed to hold hearings on the pot rotten bill, which took place from the end of August. The text of the bill was sent to judicial actors at the end of July. As you know, the judicial holidays take place in August. These judicial actors have therefore taken time to analyse the texts, to make proposals with very fine and very technical analysis. They were received and had the opportunity to speak widely during the hearings. The proposals were interesting, not only on behalf of the opposition, for the pleasure of making opposition. This is about civil society. Even the majority, I think, did agree on a whole series of civil society proposals. It has recognized this, certainly in catini, in the corridors, without wanting to change this legislation completely or change the philosophy which was necessarily contained in the agreement reached in the Council of Ministers. Members of Parliament who are familiar with Justice, too, also agreed on a whole series of civil society proposals. If I talk about it today, it is because there has not been one amendment. And I am not talking about opposition amendments. That's the game. I know that because I was also on the other side of the fence. I know how this works and I am not going to do my Calimero here by saying that we have not respected the opposition parliamentarians. I don't care and I don't even talk about it! That is not the subject of my intervention. Prime Minister, civil society spent some of its leave to bribe this case and was called in for hearings. I therefore find it a pity to sweep away all the interesting, constructive and intelligent proposals that are made. I do not say that at all for the purpose of polemicing. I'm trying to get a message out for the future. Trust is also created with respect for civil society. Bring it in and send it back with one back of the hand, saying that in any case, we will remain in the government agreement and that we will not change a comma: this is not correct. All you had to do was say it first. Let's stop opening the door to auditions! In this case, including in the majority of cases someone, whom I will not mention, had asked forcefully in July for hearings. Let us respect civil society! Trust, Prime Minister, it also begins with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u280	I was on this commission. Indeed, together with other parliamentarians, we have had interesting moments, Mr President of the Committee on Justice, with representatives of civil society who were the actors of justice. Mr. Miller, you heard them like I did, one after another. It was exciting! The reform envisaged in potri 1 – which bears its name – could be improved. They put on the table proposals that did not question your government's agreement. They were simply proposals for improvement. I was shocked by the actors in the judiciary. They received this as a real slap. For parliamentarians too: I have rarely gone with a draft in the Committee on Justice without having changed it according to what I have heard. Here, while most members of the majority agreed to adapt to the margin, it was enough that only one party said "niet" and the others, little finger on the stitching of the pants, voted as one man: they refused all the amendments. This is outrageous! It's not democratic. As far as I am concerned, as long as this does not change, as far as the Committee on Justice is concerned, there will be no agreement with the opposition any more.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u281	Personally, my point is primarily about respect for civil society in this way. I can understand that a majority does not want to change a comma to a text. In that case, let's just say it right now! Let us not play with the sensitivity of people outside parliament. In the future, either the majority does not agree to change a comma – so let's not proceed with the hearings – or there is an opening – and we can proceed with it. It is a call for quality work but above all respectful of civil society actors. I had focused my intervention on trust. Prime Minister, the confidence of your majority, you will have tomorrow, no doubt about it, but the confidence of your majority is not enough. The one you have to get is that of the citizens, that of the Belgians as a whole. Today, however, it is being undermined with, in any case, Francophones. The trust you need is that of the federated entities, of all the players in any area of investment. Because it is only thanks to and with this confidence that we will be able to meet the challenges together, especially on the socio-economic side.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u282	Mrs Fonck, Mrs Onkelinx, I myself was a member of the Justice Committee. Of course, when hearings are held, they aim to improve the quality of parliamentary work. I hear the call that is being made and we will not fail to examine it within the government. I cannot make a commitment because I have not personally read the comments made by the actors in these hearings. I recognize that if hearings are held, they must aim to improve the quality of parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u283	Mr President, in relation to the work of the Committee on Justice, I would like to start with a small parenthesis. Mr Nollet, contrary to what I read today in the newspapers of the Sudpresse group, we worked during the holidays, during the last week of August. It's interesting to report it. You have sent a very bad signal to the citizens who say that parliamentarians do nothing. You should have had a little more nuance in your remarks. The title that came out was very unpleasant. The result of the races: all the members of the Justice Committee had three weeks of vacation in total and for everything. But it's not a problem, we're paid for it. So I think that signal wasn't quite smart. Mrs Fonck, Mrs Onkelinx, it is important to point out that at no time in the Committee on Justice have we refused either intervention or opposition. The requests for hearings were agreed by all the groups in committee. In addition, you are talking about parliamentary holidays, judicial holidays and vacancies for potential speakers who were invited to give an opinion. Those who were not available took the trouble of giving written notice. We will have the debate this Friday and we will see that not everyone agreed on the same points of view. That is what the hearings are all about.We have, in accordance with our agreements, called for a second reading, which took place and during which we were able to review the whole text. I note that technical amendments were signed by the majority and by the opposition at that time, because corrections had to be made to the text. It all happened as agreed. We will have the debate this Friday.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u284	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u285	I had the opportunity to tell Mr. Massin, you were gone at the time, you had an obligation. You warned me you'd be gone. It is not abnormal, in a democracy, that a majority or an opposition, together or separately, freely pronounces on texts. The amendments that have been proposed have not convinced a majority of parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u286	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u287	Yes, that's how it happened. An article-by-article vote was taken, amendment by amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u288	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u289	Yes, I was. We'll talk about it again on Friday, with the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u290	Mr President, I would like to welcome and congratulate Mr Goffin and all the members of the Committee on Justice who have actually worked very hard this summer. What we just want to say is that this should be the norm for all committees. As a member of the Finance Committee, the former chairman of this committee, I am particularly married that I could not hear, after a communication from the government on 21 July, the Minister of Finance on the measures of the tax shift, not having been able to hear him about the incident that hit very hard many independents with the electronic payments system managed by a private company, having to negotiate during long exchanges with Minister Borsu to come to the Economy Committee to explain to us what was happening in the milk crisis. That's not right! Today we are the last Belgian parliament to return and resume its work. Are we going to continue with a close reading of the Constitution? As Mr Nollet said, this is a constructive proposal. We welcome the openness of the other members of the other groups to what has been tabled on the table. We think we need to get home sooner. Not only the Justice Commission, which has done remarkable work, but all the commissions. It is a question of democracy, parliamentary control and it is simply normal if we look at the functioning of other parliaments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u291	Mr President, Prime Minister, I think you have succeeded in an interesting communication operation with your one hundred euro note with which you have hypnotized the population. But you created a smokescreen that hides the essentials. Essentially, this is not so much the question of increasing purchasing power, because it can be summed up in two figures. The population receives $4 billion less for its purchasing power and $3.8 billion more. So she's losing $200 million. Beyond this discussion on purchasing power, there are, above all, two other data that I believe are essential, the gifts to employers: 5.54 billion and the billions of euros of reduction of public expenditure that are decided to finance either these gifts or the budgetary adjustments. That is the reality, and that is what will seriously affect the population. When tackling social security, health and public services, workers and their purchasing power are also attacked. So I could paraphrase you and say, "Never has a government attacked the social to finance gifts to the bosses so much." These gifts are of several orders. In particular, there is this huge mass of reductions in employer contributions. Twenty-five years ago, there were 700 million reductions in employer contributions. Today, this amount has increased tenfold with about $7 billion, and you want us to get 9 billion gifts to the bosses. You tell us: "Soon the wage handicap will only be a bad memory of the past." You remind me of Wilfried Martens who said, "The end of the tunnel is near." You say it with your words. But finally, you say the same thing: "Let's hold it, and in a few years' time, it'll be better." However, the current figures do not show that it is better. The problem is that in other countries they will say the same thing. I quote the President of MEDEF in France, Pierre Gataz: "If the cost of work remains expensive, we will unfortunately hire elsewhere in cheaper countries". I'm sure in other countries they say the same thing. It's an endless spiral. You managed to deceive the social movement. Some in your coalition have made the unions believe that the tax shift meant taxing big capital or taxing capital income. We were hesitant, it's one of the two options. The CD&V, in particular, managed to make its trade union wing believe that. It worked in part, but now it won't work anymore. Yet, Prime Minister, I repeat your words again, in an oral question I asked you in committee about a millionaire tax, as the PTB defends it. You told us that a tax on big fortunes was not a good idea. You said to me: "Unlike you, I believe that when we want to work hard on those who create value and jobs, solidarity and social protection are actually being undermined." You are actually saying that we must not touch big capital because it is it that creates the activity. So we can't attack him. I can hear your argument. This is a fairly classic liberal argument but, in committee, if you say that you don't have to touch capital because it's about entrepreneurs, don't make it look like after you taxed it through the tax shift. I even mean, in the ranks of the majority, that taxing intercommunals would be part of the taxation of capital. You heard him like I did. I don't know if that's from your numbers. I would point out that the president of your party is a great capitalist, because he sits or has sat in several intercommunals. He is not present today, but the MR has a great capitalist at his head. We would have charged the capital through the speculation tax. It's still a big joke! I hear the Minister of Finance say that, in this way, we are going to tax the capital gains that are realized within six months. Finally, how much will it bring back? Thirty-four million euros! And what are financial transactions on the Brussels Stock Exchange? A hundred billion a year! And that's how you're going to stop speculation... it's quite extraordinary! Beyond the taxation of capital, which is a great fumistry, the question of the tax on consumption arises. I have tried several times to ask your group leader: why should consumption be taxed? According to Piketty's formula, it is a 19th century tax, which is unfair since it affects everyone in the same way. Whether it is Albert Brother, a simple worker, an unemployed person or a minor unemployed person who has been excluded from unemployment because of your laws, everyone pays VAT. Why do you reduce the revenue of a more or less fair tax, the tax of natural persons, to increase those of a frankly unfair tax, VAT or excises? I didn't get a chance to get an answer from Mr. Ducarme. In a guilty speech, you tell us that, for the tax of natural persons, people have no choice, while they have it for the tax on consumption. Do you realize how much you blame them just to justify your budgetary revenues? Do people really have a choice? No. When you say that these taxes are intended to preserve health and the environment, you learn that the Minister of Health was not even aware of this soda tax. We also see ads for Coca-Cola every day on the Internet. So, on the one hand, you allow them to encourage people to consume sodas so that a few multinationals get profits from them, but on the other hand, you tax sodas. Sweet drinks are taxed without sugar too! You say we have a choice not to run diesel. With the savings measures you're taking for SNCB, I don't know how we're going to be able to catch the train again tomorrow! I don't think we have a choice. You're trying to blame yourself. The proof is that if these taxes had a real effect on health or the environment, if we found that people no longer consume tobacco, sodas, no longer run on diesel, no longer use electricity, your budget revenue would fall! If these measures are effective for health and the environment, they are not effective for the budget or vice versa! This shows that this so-called consumer choice is a smoke shop! I end with one thing that particularly affects me: the flexi-jobs that you also boasted yesterday and that are being applied in the Horeca sector today. The parties of the majority, including yours, already say that we will extend it to other sectors after the Horeca. These flexi-jobs are exactly what happens in the UK with zero-hour contracts. It is all social law, labour law that is being broken with this anti-social legislation that really breaks workers' gains. When you say "jobs, jobs, jobs" yesterday, I wonder if that does not mean that with these flexi-jobs, you will now have to combine three jobs to survive in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u292	Mr President, I find that Mr. Van Hees was especially good. I wanted us to note that we're going to applaud. In the absence of Comrade Hedebouw, it is important to support our colleague. [[Applause from the opposition]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-14-54-plenair-ip074x.u293	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that there are no more replies. Have I also understood that we can close our work now? Als dat zo is, dan moet ik u eraan herinneren we'll meet again tomorrow for the vote on the motion of confidence at 11:00 a.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, October 15, 2015 at 11.00 a.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 15 October 2015 at 11 a.m.
