ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic068x.u1	Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Mr Dallemagne's 419 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Deseyn's 753 was withdrawn. You have the floor for your second question, Mr Deseyn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic068x.u2	Madam Secretary of State, we have already discussed the equal treatment of citizens and businesses in the handling of the policy paper. It is important that citizens feel that they are treated equally throughout the territory by tax and social inspection. Then the efforts requested will also be much better digested. I'm gonna go over the history of the file. In 2010, a study by Deloitte showed that equal treatment was not guaranteed. After that a progress report was also carried out and there were several evaluations, but those exercises were unfortunately stopped. In 2013, the Court of Auditors highlighted the important differences in the method of control, the degree of control and compliance with the procedural rules. In short, the empirical findings show some consistency and logic, in the sense that one always comes to the same findings. That is why the issue deserves some follow-up. An anti-fraud observatory will be set up in the High Council of Finance. The objective of the observatory is to draw up recommendations, including for you, and collect statistics. You have already said that this will soon be established. In the context of the problem, it would be appropriate to extend the powers of the observatory to follow-up on equal treatment. Would you be able to change that while the observatory is being launched? Or is that already one of the defined tasks? It will be necessary to modify the KB in that sense. Will you, in the tradition of the past five years, produce a structured progress report? What concrete measures will you introduce to improve equal treatment?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic068x.u3	Mr Deseyn, I have taken note of the results of the study on the equal treatment of taxpayers carried out by Deloitte at the request of former Secretary of State Devla. I fully support the idea developed by Mr Devla and the principle that our inspection and recovery services guarantee equal treatment. It is not possible for a taxpayer to be treated in a very different way from, for example, Liège, Antwerp or Ghent by the same public service in Bruges for the same facts. Equal treatment must be guaranteed both with regard to the investigation itself and with regard to its consequences, such as recovery or penalties. However, I do think that the issue of equal treatment can be distinguished from the tasks that the observatory will undertake. In the first instance, the observatory will have the task of providing a clear and scientific picture of the size of our black and grey economy and of ensuring a better follow-up of the effective collections that take place on the basis of the findings of the inspection services. Of course, I do not rule out the possibility of adapting and extending the scope of the observatory in the long term. I am certainly open to discussions and even suggestions. However, I would like first of all to achieve the two newly mentioned objectives of the observatory. You will agree with me that these are important challenges. There are no concrete plans yet for an external partner to report on progress. Deloitte's study concerned not only the tax but also the social inspection. I will certainly discuss the subject with the relevant members of the government, both the Minister of Finance, the Secretary of State responsible for combating social fraud, the Minister of Social Affairs, the Minister of Work and the Minister of Self-employed. As far as concrete measures are concerned, equal treatment of taxpayers is now guaranteed primarily by internal instructions to the administration. Since the study that Carl Deplea has carried out, the administration has responded to the primordial principle of equal treatment. Yesterday we started the lecture again. I believe that this issue can also be addressed in the College for the fight against tax and social fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic068x.u4	I believe that we agree on what needs to be done and on the tasks of the observatory, which pursues strong objectives. We agree that equal treatment is an important issue. There is a need for coordination and you have placed the item on the College's agenda. Measuring is knowing. Measures have apparently already been taken internally, but the need for a progress report to deal with the issue together with your fellow Members is clear. I therefore support all coordination initiatives. The problem certainly deserves follow-up. If we don't have statistical material and can't develop a methodology to follow it, then we're failing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic068x.u5	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Geerts' 829 is deleted as a result of the author's absence. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Mathot's 902 was postponed at the request of the Secretary of State, Mr Sleurs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic068x.u6	We need an answer to that question from the Court of Auditors, and that is why this question has been postponed in consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic068x.u7	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Janssen's 1318 was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic068x.u8	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, if I compare some statements about the registered electronic cash register or white cash register in the committee and the press with what is in the government agreement, I wonder what the intention is. In the coalition agreement we find that the cash register will be introduced in 2015, as planned by the previous government. There are no changes or delays, yet I hear more and more often say that it is not the intention to control the catering industry too heavily. That there should be no witch-hunting, I agree with that, but it cannot be the intention to allow undeclared work and fraud to happen and even to be accepted. The catering industry is a special and difficult sector to work in: there are no standard hours, it is hard work and people need enormous doses of patience and flexibility. The white checkout therefore serves not only as a means of controlling social and fiscal fraud but also as a means of protecting workers so that they can only be called upon to do so. It is an additional guarantee that workers will be protected when an accident occurs at work and that they will build up rights for all the work that has been done. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to ask you for clarification. When is the government planning to enter the registered cash register? What exactly are you going to register and check? How are you going to follow the checks?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic068x.u9	It is a very topical question after yesterday's demonstration.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic068x.u10	Mr President, Mrs Vanheste, the registered cash register system, GKS, was introduced from 1 January 2015, until the end of February there is a registration and then the operator who has to have a GKS is allocated one of the following implementation dates: 30 June, 30 September or 31 December. In 2015 there is the implementation, as from 1 January 2016 there is also a check. There is also guidance provided by the administration so that this implementation can proceed smoothly. The nature of the registration is stated in the circular 124,747 of 23 October 2013. That circular clarifies the technical aspects in implementation of Article 1 and the modalities in implementation of Article 2, second paragraph, Article 4, first paragraph and Article 8 of the Royal Decree of 1 October 2013 implementing the Law of 30 July 2013 on the certification of a registered cash register system in the hospitality sector. For the purposes of Articles 2 and 2a of the Royal Decree of 2009, the Circular shall also include a comment on those provisions and in particular on the conditions to be met by the ticket. As mentioned in the articles of the Royal Decree, these include the registrations of supplies of goods and services, including the applicable VAT rate, the registration of start and end of work, the creation of training sticks, the production of pro-formatickets, changes in prices and applicable VAT rates, corrections and take-backs, the opening of the cash drawer through the possible cash register functionality, the creation of reports and certain program and configuration changes, such as the data client dump, but since that is even more technical, I do not go into more detail. It also concerns any booking, order, take back, correction, change, transfer of a table, etc., within a table management or customer management functionality or within a functionality that can temporarily interrupt or pause a registration and resume it. In addition, the following control data are systematically kept, of which I will tell you the details on paper because they are quite technical: ticket counter, ticket signature, control module and the VAT Signing Card ID, i.e. the VAT identification number. In doing so, I replied to what we are checking and registering. How will we carry out these checks? The checks on the implementation of the registered cash register system will be phased out from April 2015, in order to ensure that the implementation of the GKS is on track. In the first instance, the GKS obligation of the establishment will be examined. This has now been clearly agreed and is being implemented. Indeed, it is not the intention to allow fraud to take place longer, but rather to start with a zero line and ensure that we have a white sector in the future, not a black sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic068x.u11	I'd like to hear that, Madam Secretary of State. I hope, of course, that people will be well supervised so that there will be no casualties among workers or employers. It is about a sector that works well in Belgium and creates a social aspect. I regret, however, that we hear something from one minister in the media and something else from another. In the end, we don't remember. I can also imagine there's a panic among the catering operators.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic068x.u12	I will respond spontaneously, also taking into account what happened yesterday. We are certainly aware of the concern. We want a notification from the sector. That's important. Our society is changing and so adjustments are needed, taking into account the social nature of the sector. A lot of hours are spent. It is also about casual work and there is often work at impossible times. So ad hoc solutions are needed. Sometimes it takes a lot of people, sometimes it doesn't. All these things must be taken into account in our labour legislation. Several Cabinets and various ministers are working on this. The IKWVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic068x.u13	Thank you for your explanation, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic068x.u14	I just spoke to the Secretary of State. What I am saying now is outside the oral questions, but there are great concerns at many associations and parish centres, where associations organize mussel festivals, for example. A meal is often offered after a funeral in many parish centers. That happens in a voluntary way. Those aren't companies. It's volunteers who take care of that. The introduction of the GKS also obliges them, as a non-profit organisation, to indicate the share of what they call catering activities, celebrations and mourning meals, for example. If that ascend is above 10 %, they must also have a cash register. This creates a lot of problems for parish associations, which are actually only room managers. Often it is the associations themselves who do the tap and have the proceeds of the activities. So there are a lot of aspects to the story, which are probably easy to refute. The volunteers are not catering staff in that respect. They are often not paid for their work either. Often these are associations that receive part of the proceeds to finance their activities. There are also the mourning meals in which questions from tax specialists give a very unclear explanation. A taxable person regularly provides restaurant or catering services if the turnover from the restaurant or catering services is 10% or more of the total turnover. What are catering activities, however? Are association activities catering activities? I'm being alerted to the questions. You will, however, belong to all associations in hundreds of Flemish municipalities. They are faced with this problem. They're wondering exactly what's going on here. They themselves consider that they are not a catering company and therefore cannot work with a cash register. They don't supply catering themselves. After all, it's volunteers who make the sandwiches. This may be very concrete, but there is a problem with those involved. Madam Secretary of State, can you clarify this matter? You may not be able to do that now, but you may be able to give me a written reply so that it can be communicated. After all, we are also being asked what Parliament thinks about the issue. It is therefore better that we have the interpretation on paper. If she's not ready, she can do it later. That's my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic068x.u15	Mr President, you have made a very good point. In the past few weeks, we have also encountered these questions in the preparation of the measures in the Cabinet. We are now looking at them to see how we can adapt the measures to the very specific situations of association life. After all, it is not intended that the association life in our country and in Flanders should be flattened. That is absolutely not the intention. We are looking for modalities that allow associations to be exempted for activities that are organised several times a year with a certain yield. We are still examining and studying how we can incorporate such specific modalities into the legislation so that it is still possible for the whole of society to organise a dinner party and that is still possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic068x.u16	Mrs Vanheste, it is not an official question, but you will have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic068x.u17	I think it is important that the balance is well guarded. There are associations that just make it a sport to organize things that actually compete for catering operators who say that they should have them when they don't have to. Where's the border? That's a difficult exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic068x.u18	That is the difficulty, and we are trying to figure it out now. There are associations and charities who sometimes give a dinner party to get some money in the drawer. We all know these situations. There are also large organisations that once make a very big profit, for example a festival. That doesn't come under any of those things. So we're investigating the modalities. We are thinking of a maximum number of activities per year with a certain maximum yield. We're still working on it. We want to protect this, but we also want to make sure that we don't create another circuit. That is always the danger of opening a gate. One then falls under it but meanwhile has a black bag that is much bigger. So we are still working on these modalities. It is important that the problems are pointed out to us so that this can be described as well as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic068x.u19	A dangerous theme in Flanders, especially on the coast.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic068x.u20	At the beginning of the sitting, I put to the vote Question No 5, by Mr von der Vring (H-l-l-I) (H-l-I) (H-l-I) (H-l-I) (H-l-I) (H-l-I) (H-I) (H-I) (H-I) (H-I) (H-I) (H-I) (H-I) (H-I) (H-I) (H-I) (H-I) (H-I) (H-I) (H-I) (H-I) (H-I) (H-I) (H-I) (H-I) (H-I) (H-I) (H-I) (H-I) (H-I) (H-I) (H-I) (H-I) (H-I) (H-I) (H-I) (H-I) (H-I) Mr Geerts had 829 Now his question is converted into a written question.
