ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic172x.u1	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, the anti-poverty associations have once again called for alarm following your government's sudden announcement not to increase the budget allocated to the Maintenance Claims Service (SECAL). As you know, the main objective of SECAL is to help single-parent families, and therefore mainly women, who are waiting for their maintenance payments. The arrears recovered and advances obtained through this public service are an important tool for combating insecurity and, in particular, for combating child poverty. In my last question on women's poverty, you said that this tool would be given specific attention in the new Federal Plan to Combat Poverty and that you would, among other things, meet with the Minister of Justice to redefine the new amounts of food contributions. Have you ever contacted the Minister of Justice, but also the Minister of Finance, on this matter? Could you inform us of the content of your discussions with your colleagues on this issue? What measures do you intend to take to support SECAL as part of the new Federal Plan to Combat Poverty and what are the means you will seek from your colleagues to improve its functioning? Will anti-poverty associations be heard in this context? Finally, the importance of promoting SETAL to the public was also stressed. Do you intend to give this public service of assistance to families more visibility in order to better inform families of their rights and to help them finally get out of the precarious situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic172x.u2	Madam President, Mrs Winckel, in preparing the draft of the Federal Plan to Combat Poverty, I have obviously contacted my fellow ministers and/or secretaries of state to define actions. In addition, I also interviewed the various anti-poverty associations, such as the Belgian Anti-Poverty Network. With regard to SECAL, without wishing to anticipate, I would point out that the draft Federal Plan for Combating Poverty includes several actions: - more effective and transparent calculation of maintenance payments - to be examined in consultation with the Minister of Justice; - the development of an objective directive to determine the amount of food contributions - in collaboration with the Social Integration PPS; - taking measures to combat the actions used to make themselves insolvent; - the implementation of an effective system for the collection of tax and non-tax debts, including maintenance payments covered by the SECAL - in consultation with my colleague, the Minister of Finance. Finally, in general, care will be taken to involve experience experts in the various public services. Of course, of course, I support SECAL. However, I draw attention to existing promotions. SECAL's reputation is ensured by means of a website, leaflets and brochures updated annually as well as posters. In addition, when the Act of 12 May 2014 entered into force, a targeted communication action was launched. All applicants who had an open file with SECAL and who, under the previous law, did not qualify for advances, were informed by mail of the increase in the income ceiling in order to qualify for advances. I do not foresee any other communication action than those I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic172x.u3	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I know that you, like me, are concerned about this subject, for whom it has become a real priority. Poverty is increasing, mainly among women. We mentioned earlier the figure of 860,000 women close to or below the poverty line. We know that this figure is linked to child poverty, and that SECAL has an important role to play in this context. You have taken steps to anticipate your Federal Poverty Reduction Plan and I can only support you in this type of action. I want to encourage you to go even further. I have not yet heard any additional measures in relation to financial and human resources that could be allocated to SECAL in order to ensure that it functions as efficiently as possible. This service is saturated, which is why it would be important to give them additional resources. The promotion of this existing service, thanks to the website, brochures and targeted communication, is not yet sufficient. When you want to reach a vulnerable audience, it is important to communicate as much as possible using different channels to make such a service known. I would therefore like to ask you to go even further than the measures you have announced. I really believe in the role that SECAL can play in relieving the precarious situation of women and their children.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic172x.u4	Let me think about it. In this regard, it would appear that it is possible not to comply with the law. Judgments are not applied in practice. Arrangements have been made for the objectivation of the calculation. It was then said that a commission should be set up, that an assessment of the differences between the courts should be carried out. In the event that there are differences, it would be necessary to establish a reference scale for everyone. We worked in Justice on the transfer of information from judgments to SECAL so that it could be accessed. In this area, implementation does not always seem to be important: the calculation and payment of maintenance claims appear to be secondary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic172x.u5	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, first of all, I would like to welcome your willingness to set up a programme for the psychological care of victims of rape. That's very positive. Indeed, if this project were to succeed, it would make it possible to get out of the shadows more victims. According to statistics, only 10 per cent of rape victims find the courage to file complaints, while the overwhelming majority is still silent. According to the information you provided, your project would consist of psychological support to victims, which would complement the work of doctors and police officers in charge of these sensitive cases. These persons would therefore be monitored at each stage of their legal declaration and encouraged to report their aggressors. In addition, you mentioned the possibility of setting up specialized medical centres dedicated to the care of people who have been sexually assaulted. These facilities could be attached to hospitals, while providing victims with the possibility of better assistance during medical examinations. We know the difficulties that may arise in this regard, as such examinations may be considered by some victims as an additional injury to their physical integrity. Madam Secretary of State, even if your project is for the time being embryonic, it is clear that a government consultation should take place shortly to address it. Can you tell us when it will be organized? Will the Communities be involved in the discussions? Can you already tell us the main lines of action that will be developed and the measures that you plan to take in order to make this project a reality? When it comes to the opening of specialized medical centres, the care of victims, etc., their funding is of course considered. Can you tell us whether a funding plan has already been drawn up and whether you are already confident that a budget can be made available within this framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic172x.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of May I plan several meetings with the federal ministers and the competent ministers of the federated entities to discuss the new action plan to combat all forms of violence against women. This new plan, which will include the fight against partner violence and female genital mutilation, will largely focus on combating sexual violence. This is the first time that a sexual violence component has been integrated into the action plan to combat violence against women. It is also one of my political priorities. I hope to be able to finalize everything before the summer parliamentary holidays, but this will, of course, depend on the progress of the negotiations. In the area of combating sexual violence, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men has set up an expert group composed of all relevant actors who are confronted with victims of sexual violence. Their feedback is at the origin of a whole series of actions and proposals to be incorporated into the action plan. Since no consultation has yet taken place with my colleagues and until a consensus has been reached on the planned actions, I shall not dwell on the matter. However, I can already explain why I intend to set up multidisciplinary teams. In Great Britain, some Scandinavian countries and the Netherlands, there are centres that offer appropriate assistance to victims of rape. For example, in the Netherlands, each province has since 2014 a multidisciplinary centre "sexual violence" where victims receive assistance and support adapted immediately after rape. Victims should not immediately decide whether they want to report rape. They may in any case have evidence taken. This multidisciplinary and always accessible care is important because the first seventy-two hours are crucial. Indeed, evidence must be taken in order to search for the author. In addition to physiological care, the victim must also receive psychological care. I am thinking, for example, of treatment for sexually transmitted diseases and HIV and prevention of possible pregnancy. The presence of emergency psychological assistance in the multidisciplinary team seems essential to me. Victims are ashamed and present various emotional reactions. Psychologists can accompany them and tell them that these reactions are normal. It makes a world of difference! Psychological monitoring is therefore of paramount importance. When it comes to post-traumatic stress disorder, treatment should be started immediately. The Netherlands has shown that the coordinated approach of the Multidisciplinary Centre reduces psychological harm to the victim and increases the willingness to report rape. In the Netherlands, 5 to 10 per cent of victims report rape, compared with 34 per cent in such a centre. At the end of this year or the beginning of next year, the Institute for Equality of Women and Men will visit the Netherlands and Great Britain with a delegation of the parties concerned. These working visits can serve as a basis for developing a proposal to launch a similar initiative in Belgium. But this issue still needs to be discussed in the context of the negotiations of the new action plan with both my federal colleagues and those of the federated entities. As far as the budget is concerned, this issue must also be discussed with my fellow ministers. If they agree to follow up on certain cases and launch some projects, it goes without saying that a budget will be allocated to develop these initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic172x.u7	Madam Secretary of State, I very much appreciate your willingness in this area and your desire to amplify what is already being done and to try, as far as possible, to put in place much more efficient systems. You're absolutely right! In terms of financing, this will certainly cost money, but in the face of this type of violence, one must not sting for a euro cent. I hope that your colleagues in the federal government will be understanding. Nor are they excessive budgets. It is not mandatory to have one centre per district. Solutions can be found, especially if you want to support or integrate hospitals. In addition, I draw your attention to the determination of the Federal Security Plan. Intramarital violence, particularly rape, had previously been a priority. That no longer seems to be the case. It would be important for you to discuss this with your Justice colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic172x.u8	It is my understanding that, within the framework of the Social Emancipation Opinion Committee, hearings and work will be held for several weeks on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic172x.u9	Madam President, in the Committee on Public Health, this type of question is not a surprise because we have relatively interesting debates on this subject. Madam Secretary of State, you have in your powers the fight against poverty. I'm not going to tell you the history of the number of people involved, etc. The situation is dramatic and concerns many Belgians. Belgium has thus set itself the objective in its National Reform Programme at the European Commission to reduce the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion by 380 000 by 2020. It's an honorable goal, if it is. We would like it not only on paper. I assume, Madam Secretary of State, that you share this view. You have previously explained to the Committee on Public Health that you wanted a third plan to combat poverty in the course of the second half of 2015; it is time to remind you that the second half begins on 1 July. Madam Secretary of State, my questions are very simple and I hope they will not receive a very complicated answer. Can your timing be held? I assume you'll tell me that the "second semester current" begins on July 1st but ends on December 31st. What method have you used to prepare this third plan? According to your predecessor, Ms De Block, 71% of the actions had been carried out for the second federal plan, while 23% are still being implemented. Can you provide us with an update on the progress of this second plan? When can the full evaluation of the report take place and when can the package be presented to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic172x.u10	My colleague, the authors of the fifth Federal Poverty Directory in Belgium have reminded us, with supporting figures, of the main problems our country faces in the fight against poverty. That is why I am preparing the Third Federal Plan to Combat Poverty in a coordinated and focused manner. The objective you are quoting, which aims to bring 380,000 people out of poverty between 2010 and 2020, is certainly maintained within the framework of the Belgian NRP. To answer your first question, as I stated in the presentation of the fifth Federal Poverty Directory in Belgium, and in my political guidance note, I believe that a genuine policy of combating poverty requires not only a cross-cutting approach - we have already discussed it - but also a multidimensional one. The second federal plan, launched in 2012, showed that a cross-cutting approach is working. This is why the third federal plan will be developed in consultation with my government colleagues, the governments concerned, the network of federal public servants to combat poverty and with the participation of all stakeholders, especially those living in poverty. This consultation work has already started but needs time. My administration - the Social Integration PPS - in collaboration with the "Poverty" network of federal public servants, has prepared a discussion paper. For the time being, my cabinet is preparing bilateral talks with the various ministers and secretaries of state that will start in the coming weeks. I must immediately add that the previous methodology will be extended. Indeed, we have learned from civil society feedback on the previous plan. That is why I asked this time for the plan to be extended. In addition to integrating the commitments of all federal colleagues involved in the fight against poverty, each in its own area of competence, the plan will also include a second component, which will include a list of the various measures of the government agreement that would have a negative impact on poverty and explain how the minister in question intends to compensate for them. I hope, with the help of all the stakeholders already mentioned, to present to Parliament the final version of this third federal plan during the autumn parliamentary re-entry – the second half, right! The second federal plan was the subject of a third and final monitoring which was presented to the Council of Ministers on 4 April 2014. The government became aware of the latter monitoring before entering the current business period. The Council of Ministers did not then give any further instructions. The monitoring of the plan therefore stopped at the end of the legislature. But, following your question, I asked for an update. Thank you for drawing my attention to this point. I will be pleased to provide you with the last update as soon as the update is complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic172x.u11	Madam Secretary of State, this is good news: the presentation of a third plan in October 2015, a planned update of the second plan, with, moreover - but I look forward to seeing - the measures taken in the government agreement on the negative impact on poverty and how to deal with it. We'll discuss it in depth, not in form. That makes me happy!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic172x.u12	That's work for the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic172x.u13	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, many men and women are still regularly confronted with sexist comments in the workplace. A recent study by the VRT and Knack showed that as many as 38% of women and 19% of men were once victims of sexist behavior. Even more worrying is that almost half of the men questioned consider giving sexist comments to be non-problematic. It does not have to be said that such an attitude in 2015 is absolutely unacceptable. The investigation also showed that the threshold for lodging a complaint is still very high. Victims of sexism will rarely or never make a complaint, despite the fact that they can go to the trusted person at work as well as to the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. How many complaints about sexist behaviour were submitted to the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men in 2014? What concrete measures will you take to further combat sexism in the workplace, including in our workplace? What measures do you consider appropriate to significantly reduce the psychological threshold for submitting an actual complaint? What measures do you consider appropriate to achieve a change in attitudes towards sexist behaviour?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic172x.u14	Madam President, Mrs Lijnen, the figures for 2014 are unfortunately not yet available. They are expected to be published when the annual report is published. The 2013 figures are there. In 2013, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men received fifteen complaints about sexism. These complaints relate to sexism in general. Specifically for sexual harassment, the Institute received two complaints in 2013. It's one of my core tasks to combat sexism. In its broadest sense, sexism covers all behaviour in which people, because of their sex, are regarded as inferior and despised because their behaviour does not meet what society expects of a man or a woman. However, the article of the weekly Knack focuses mainly on behaviour falling under the heading of sexual harassment and harassment based on sex in the workplace. Article 7 of the 2007 Gender Act states that the provisions of this Act do not apply to sexual harassment in employment relations. When a person contacts the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men because he or she receives comments at work related to his or her sex or who have a sexual connotation, the Institute should refer these facts to the department responsible for well-being at work. It is the Welfare Act of 4 August 1996 which applies to victims of sexual harassment or harassment based on sex at work. The gender law and the welfare law define harassment or unwanted behaviour at work as any form of unwanted verbal, non-verbal or physical behaviour associated with sex, or with a sexual connotation which has the purpose or effect of affecting the dignity of a person or of creating a threatening, hostile, offensive, humiliating or offensive situation. Victims of sexism at work can contact the trusted persons, the prevention advisers and the welfare services at the work of the FOD WASO. The Institute for Women's and Men's Liliness has so far been able to play a limited role in such cases. It can play an advisory role and follow the internal procedure with the prevention adviser and the employer. It is only when the following procedure has been completed in the departments supervising the well-being at work that the Institute can act. However, since the entry into force of the Sexism Act, it can be argued that sexist behaviour at work is punishable. The Institute for the Equality of Women and Men is also competent to take legal action within the limits of those objectives. In order to lower the threshold, without pre-empting the forthcoming action plan to combat all forms of gender-based violence, I will sensitise employers and workers. Workers need to know where to go when faced with such behaviour. It is therefore also important, in my view, that confidential persons and prevention advisers do not laugh away from sexist behavior or regard it as non-problematic. I believe that there is a need to raise awareness of this problematic behaviour. If such complaints are taken seriously, they will also be reported more quickly. Sensitising is essential, in my view, because not only the advisers but also the people in the workplace, we all need to be sensitized so that a change of attitude to sexist behavior can be achieved. Sensitising contributes to a clear picture of what sexist behavior is, how it is experienced and what its consequences are. Sexism, as we know, is the breeding ground for much more serious behaviour, such as gender discrimination and gender-based violence. When such behaviour occurs, action must be taken by the services currently responsible for psychosocial well-being or by the employer himself. Failure to sanction such behaviour gives the impression that they are permitted and that thus increases the threshold. An indulgent attitude towards sexist behavior merely leads to the maintenance of the mentality that we do want to change. We try, among other things, through brochures, together with the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, to raise awareness on the workplace of workers and employers in order not to tolerate sexism in our workplace. This is also addressed in the action plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic172x.u15	Madam Secretary of State, you are taking a clear stand on this issue, including against sexism. It is good that this is addressed in the plan of action. After all, all the elements are situated in a large whole and are connected with each other, even psychologically. As long as society lets the victims know that it's not all that bad, sexism remains the first stage. We must not tolerate this as a society. The adoption of the law by Parliament was a first important step, but now there is a need to sensitise. I believe that this has a direct impact on women who do not dare to complain if they become victims of sexism or even rape. All the elements are connected. That is why it is very important to act decisively, and that requires legislation. As far as sexism is concerned, we are a little further. There is also a need for a different approach, and I am glad that it is now there, as is the awareness campaign. The general political answer must always be that we do not tolerate such behaviour in our society. That message can always be conveyed by Belgium at international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic172x.u16	Certainly, Mrs. Lijnen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic172x.u17	Madam Secretary of State, I kick in an open door when I say that single-parent families, often after divorce, are most vulnerable to poverty. The Federal Plan on Combating Poverty therefore considers the functioning of the DAVO to be important in the fight against poverty. The service shall ensure that maintenance fees are paid or advanced. It goes without saying that DAVO mainly supports single mothers. Recently, the ceilings for the DAVO's advances have been raised. That's a good measure. Still, something seems to be going wrong. The Court of Auditors has calculated that EUR 8 million would be needed to meet the current demand. Professor Pacolet of HIVA, who conducts in-depth studies on this problem, also says that according to the current ceilings, 4 295 families would be eligible. Your colleague, Mr Van Overtveldt, has also acknowledged this. He promised to the Family Union and women's organisations that the under-budget figure would be corrected by a budget check in March. In the meantime, it's May. In the current budget control, we can't find anything about that. This means that women who are entitled to benefits and alimony benefits are once again left in the cold. Madam Secretary of State, have you started discussions within the federal government with your colleagues to resolve these deficits, as Minister Van Overtveldt has confirmed? What are the measures you or your colleagues will take to optimise and ensure the operation of the DAVO?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic172x.u18	Mrs Jiroflée, divorce does indeed have far-reaching economic consequences for a family and has a clear impact on the standard of living of parents and children. Various measures have already been taken so that DAVO can carry out its tasks in full. For example, the operating costs of the DAVO will be borne by the debtor. The collection possibilities were improved. The procedure for applying for advances was simplified. The most important point is indeed that the income limit was raised to EUR 1 800 from 1 January 2015. This creates a coverage rate of 90% for families with one dependent child. Can I say that, on the basis of the evolution of expenditure, the initially foreseen budget of EUR 25,85 million is sufficient until the next budgetary control? In December 2014, DAVO paid advances for 15 159 children. In May 2015, advances were paid for 16 868 children. Since the entry into force of the law of 12 May 2014, 1 709 children have thus been added. A total of EUR 10 669 313.79 in advances was paid. This represents 42% of the initially allocated budget. The budget allocated is therefore still more than sufficient at present. In order to ensure that sufficient resources will always be available in the future, the Minister of Finance has asked the administration to monitor expenditure so that action can be taken in good time if necessary. So we're totally untracked. The resources that will be needed are available and monitored. The next budgetary control will keep a close eye on this, so that it can be improved if necessary. At present, there is certainly sufficient resources available.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic172x.u19	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. I am glad to hear that it is indeed being monitored and I am therefore curious. We do have a huge knot. About 4 295 families are currently entitled. You are talking about 1 700 children, of whom, according to Belga, there are more applications. That's where the shoe is wringing for us. Surely it is your job to ensure that the right holders find their way to the DAVO. The service was set up to keep families out of poverty. That's your job. What's to stop you from writing all those 4 295 families to tell them they're entitled to it? That is where the whole problem lies. There are too few applications because a lot of people still do not find their way to DAVO and thus remain stuck in poverty. I have noticed today that even a colleague from your majority in the MR is asking Minister Van Overtveld what he will do to inform more people of their rights. I think it's too easy to take good measures, and that's what they are, and not to make them public. I really can't agree with this way of working. That's how you score, but in the end nothing changes. I see that 1 700 children are reported drop-drop, while 4 295 families are entitled to it. As Secretary of State for Combating Poverty, you really need to do something about that. I can imagine Mrs Winckel speaking on this point too. I couldn't listen to her because I had another obligation. I don't think we can go on like this. People need to be informed of their rights. Then there might be a lot of money too short. I'm glad that's being monitored. In any case, thank you for your answer.
