ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting our work this afternoon. First of all, we welcome the speakers of our esteemed panel. Mr Jozef De Witte of the Interfederal Equal Opportunities Centre is certainly known to you. There is Mrs Nathalie Debast of the VVSG; her voice was known to me, not her face yet. Mrs Agnes Bode of Family Help was also announced, but she was replaced with the HR director, Mr Bart Vandamme. Mr Jan Denys of Randstad has expressly asked to be present, we give him a listening ear. Mrs Myriam Gérard of the Brussels CSC, welcome. Mrs Miranda Ulens from the ABVV has also been here for a while, she is now moving her car. There are three ladies and three gentlemen, so they are well-balanced. Ladies and gentlemen of the panel, this morning we had a very interesting discussion with the people of the Minority Forum and Federgon. There were also two people from the administration, Mr Philippe Vanden Broeck of the SIOD and Mr Tom Bevers of the Monitoring, whom you probably know. It was a very interesting presentation. I feel that there is a willingness in our committee to move forward. In fact, after today's hearing, we intend to seek the opinion of the Minister responsible, Kris Peeters, and, if necessary, of other relevant ministers or secretaries of state. Then we will try to draw up a resolution in committee with recommendations, for example to amend legislation and provide enforcement instruments, so that it does not end up at a hearing but that steps can be taken forward. The method of work, followed this morning, is as follows: first, I will pass the floor to the six speakers who will make their presentations successively, possibly by means of slides. There will therefore be a total of six presentations. Then the debate will come with the questions and suggestions of the members of the committee and the answers of the guests. We will try to complete our work by 6:00 p.m. at the latest. So we have three and a half hours, that should be enough. I now give the floor to Mr Jozef De Witte.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the invitation to speak in this committee. I've prepared eight points, but no slides. I would like to say a few words about the centre. I would like to state a state of affairs: where do we stand after so many years of anti-discrimination legislation? I would like to say something about this legislation, which is my third point. I want to talk, as a fourth point, about triangle relationships. The need for a different approach is my fifth point. I would like to see who can do what and point out that there is also a great deal of preventive action. Finally, I would like to draw a very brief conclusion. First, the Interfederal Equal Opportunities Centre was established by the cooperation agreement of 12 June 2013 by the Regions, the Communities and the Federal Parliament. The law was published on 5 March 2014. We are therefore operational for exactly one year. We are competent for almost all the grounds of discrimination that the law lists or for the various criteria, except for male/female.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Secondly, what is the state of play on participation and attitudes and discrimination in the labour market? In fact, the Centre has already carried out several studies in the past, including the Diversity Barometer Work. One can find them on our website www.diversity.be.com and the Socio-economic Monitoring. That's probably what Tom Bevers talked about extensively. I give just one figure to be brief: the employment rate in Belgium is at a rate of 23% for men and even 28% for women on the basis of a migration background. We have investigated this gap in Belgium with 6.3 million inhabitants between 18 and 60 years of age, together with the FOD Work. What does a lot of European studies show? This gap is greater in Belgium than in any other EU Member State. So yes, we have a problem here with the employment rate of people with a migration background. This is also evident from our figures every year. Our center communicated our figures for 2014 on 3 February 2015. We are seeing an increase in employment records and specific racial criteria, and more than one in ten cases related to private employment agencies or selection agencies or to public employment services. In my third point, I would like to focus briefly on the legislation on discrimination. There is the anti-racism law, a dossier of 1981, amended by the 2007 law, and there is the anti-discrimination law on other grounds. There is also the gender law, but as has been said, we do not have the competence to do so. Those laws, decrees and decrees are indeed to be transposed by the federal government, the Regions and the Communities on the basis of the famous EU Directives 2000/43 and 2000/78. I will come back to this later, but there are also a number of international conventions to which Belgium has committed itself and which Belgium has ratified: the Treaty on the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination, which is 50 years old this year, the Durban Conference in 2001 which I will mention and which also makes a number of commitments to the Member States, and of course the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, to name but a few. This legislation in employment matters contains, first and foremost, a number of prohibitions: what are prohibited behaviours? For the sake of clarity, since 2003, the focus has been on civil proceedings, not on criminal proceedings. As far as the centre is concerned, it is an excellent thing that this is a matter of civil law, for a number of reasons, but above all because there is no need to conduct intentional processes there. In criminal law there is innocence to prove otherwise, so it must be pointed out that someone has the intention to discriminate. What do the European directives say? The intention isn't at all, it's the effect that counts. For example, with regard to disability, we find very often that there is absolutely no intention, but there is an effect, and the law prohibits behaviour that directly or indirectly affects............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That makes a much more neutral debate possible and we very much appreciate it. So we never ask the question: is anyone racist? That is not the point at all. The question is: is there a behavior here that de facto constitutes an adverse treatment on the basis of a protected criterion of origin, origin, disability, age, sexual orientation and so on? That's essential. One of the things that is also prohibited is to order discrimination. In practical terms, we must not give this order, and we must not allow anyone who receives it to carry it out. If I ask a taxi driver to take me to Ostend very quickly and drive 180 km/h, then the taxi driver cannot argue to the police that his customer has asked and that he has performed only what his customer has asked. That's not how it works. There is a ban on commissioning and also a ban on entering into such a contract. For the sake of clarity, in addition to this legislation with bans in particular, there is indeed a great deal of scope for a preventive policy. I'll come back to that later. Fourthly, I would like to address the specific situation of the triangular relationship. The reason for this hearing is what was said at the beginning of last week about the service cheque companies. They are companies that have two types of customers, the applicants for services, such as families who ask for, for example, a cleaning aid, and a person who will perform these services. So that service-cheque company is like some kind of broker, an intermediary, between those two parties. This also applies to interim work, which also applies to a number of other matters. A taxi company, for example, might be ringing a bell that gets a question from a customer to send a driver who is not allowed to be a stranger, is in the same situation. A real estate office that gets a call to rent a house but not to a stranger, is in the same situation. They act as intermediaries. That is a very specific situation. We know from research IDEA Consult in 2010 that there are indeed people at the service cheques who say: no man, no immigrant and no older. I didn't invent that, as it turns out from IDEA Consult's research. Those questions exist. The question is not whether these questions exist, the question is how companies deal with them? They know the law. A lot of tests have shown that everyone knows the law and that some people add a "b" but "b" in terms of "b" and yet I will go against it. So it is important to understand in that situation that the person who is discriminated against is, in principle, never to know that he is discriminated against. That cab driver of strange origin doesn't know he doesn't get a call because he's of strange origin. The other doesn't know that he does get a call because he is not of strange origin. The person who works through an interim office, whether it is a service cheque company or an interim office, does not know that there is discrimination. The argument that we have to wait for a complaint, which is then lodged at the centre and that everything is resolved, is, of course, pure nonsense. If people say that the centre has hardly any reports of service cheques, that would be rather bizarre. It is only in the event of flagrant infringements that this becomes apparent. I quote Mr Denys will remember a certain interim office in West Flanders that said by e-mail that it was looking for ten employees, but that it should not be Muhammads. Black and white. Suddenly that mail comes to light, but not because the Muhammads knew it. If the legislation is to be taken seriously, ladies and gentlemen, you must ensure that appropriate measures are taken to check that it is being applied. I come to my fifth point. Never forget that the government is and will remain the first responsible for drafting and enforcing anti-discrimination legislation. The argument that we now have a centre and that everything is resolved is not accepted by anyone and certainly not by international organisations. The argument that we leave it to the sector is a very bizarre argument. May I ask whether we will in future leave the food inspection in the restaurants to the catering sector? Perhaps this will apply to the control of the white cash registers. There are many examples where it is not said that a law will be applied. Then one should not make law! Then ask the sector for some kind of self-regulation, but then there is no law. Dura lex, sed lex: the law is the law. Of course, a sector can do a lot on its own initiative, no one forbids it. I've never known this was forbidden. However, if a government says that it is drafting a law that applies to everyone, but that it leaves it to the sector itself to enforce it, then I find that a bizarre reasoning. May I quote from the Federal Government's agreement last October? Page 222: "The government maintains a zero tolerance on discrimination, particularly in the labour market. I didn't say this. This is not just about an ordinary law. I believe that we in Belgium also have a Constitution that guarantees that there is no discrimination. We are also members of the EU, the Council of Europe and the United Nations. Those authorities have repeatedly criticised Belgium for not doing well. Those who want to deny the light of the sun and claim that we are not doing so badly, I would say that any research shows that we are not doing it well. In short, there is much room for improvement. Let us occupy that space: the government must provide mechanisms to check whether, in sectors where there is mainly triangular relations, the law is effectively applied and enforced. What can one do? There's a lot of talk about mystery calling, mystery shopping and whatever. Can this happen in federal terms, can this also be done by the Regions and the Communities? At least it can happen, there are many examples. Think of the Code of Economic Law, Article XV.17: In order to detect and identify infringements, officials have the power to approach the company by pretending to be clients or potential clients, without having to disclose their status or circumstance. I quote from the explanatory statement: 'The proposed special powers relate inter alia to the introduction of the technique of mystery shopping.' So we must not invent anything; it exists. In other sectors this can be done. In the financial sector, the law of 13 July 2013 applies equally. It is therefore possible for a government to give powers to its administration, after all, it has already done so in the past to apply techniques such as mystery calling in a correct way. I do not know whether the judgment in cassation of 17 March 2010 was referred to this morning? I apologize, but I couldn't be here. The judgment may serve as an argument. There is an interesting passage in the judgment: without exaggeration mimicking a banal daily situation. Cassatie notes that there is no problem when it comes to mimicking a banal daily situation without exaggeration. It was then about the decoy cars that were used to fight car theft cases here in Brussels. What the federal government can do and what the federal Parliament can ask the government responsible at federal level is in itself a very interesting discussion. At the same time, it is also clear that there is competence within the Regions. Who is competent for employment services? Those are the Regions. From 1 April 2015, the Regions will be fully responsible for the service cheques. So there is ample opportunity here too, if I repeat one would like to examine whether such a thing can be done. There are plenty of texts from other sectors. I have given a few examples that show that it is possible. I am also wondering, since the results indicated that the VVSG was not found to be the OCMW's without faults, who oversees the municipal and local authorities? Can they not or should they not intervene when governments do not comply with the law and do not participate in achieving an objective, namely greater participation in the labour market? Does everything just have to be repressive? The answer is always no. However, this should not be an argument for pretending that the legislation does not exist. The Centre provided training courses in November-December 2012 at the request of the Sectoral Training Fund Service Cheques for the Service Cheques sector. At the moment we are in contact with Wallonia and Brussels, to do the same. The center has also developed an instrument, eDiv. This is an electronic tool to familiarise people with the legislation on discrimination. Why did we do this by electronic tool? If we have to explain the law in sessions of 12 people, we will not be finished in many years. By means of this instrument, thousands of companies have already signed up to it. One can see for oneself what can and cannot be done. Of course there can be much more. This Parliament adopted anti-discrimination legislation on 10 May 2007, in three parts, which states that there will be a KB on positive action. Count in, from 2007 to 2015, we're almost eight years later and that KB isn't there yet. I know that the current Secretary of State wants to do a lot of work on this. The previous governments have failed to do so. The legislation, as it says, needs to be evaluated after five years. So that was 2012. Now, in 2015, that evaluation still hasn't happened. The Secretary of State is also working on this, I know, but this Parliament can play its full role and check whether the laws that you have adopted are being implemented and applied. Perhaps I should refer again to the Action Plan of the Durban Conference in August and September 2001, after which the then Foreign Minister, Louis Michel, stated that this country would make an unwavering effort towards a national action plan against racism. We are 14 years away and there is no such plan. I quote from the Durban Conference: 'The obstacles to the elimination of racial discrimination and the achievement of racial equality are mainly due to a lack of political will, lax legislation, a lack of implementation strategies and concrete action by the States, as well as widespread racist behaviour and unfavourable imagery.' Durban is pointing the finger at the governments, the states, with the question: what will you do? This is from the final declaration, adopted following the review conference in 2009. The conclusion is, I cannot say better: it is a matter of political will to address discrimination in a targeted way, to create additional tools, such as an RB on positive action to promote diversity, and thus to increase participation in the labour market. Why do we have to do that? Because that is in the well-understood interest of you, of me and of everyone. It is not good that so many people do not participate in our labour market because of their origin, age, gender or disability. That's a bad thing. It is high time for this country to take action from its own best interests.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u3	I thank Mr De Witte. I now give the floor to Mrs Debast of the VVSG.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u4	Mr President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for this invitation to the report issued by the Minority Forum last week. On behalf of the Association of Flemish Cities and Municipalities (VVSG), the dome of the local authorities, I would like to give you some reservations about this in a nutshell, but I will also give you some input on behalf of the Flemish Platform PWA. They had also asked the question to be heard, but in view of the timing of their question that was no longer possible. That is why I will say a number of things on their behalf. In my speech, I will dwell on our reservations about the report, on possible explanations, on what we are going to do about it ourselves and on how the monitoring will be carried out. Like many of you, I assume, last week we were surprised at what we heard in the press. It was a very clear message: 62.5 % of 251 called companies responded to the demand to send cleaning help without migration roots. More specifically for the public sector, which I would like to talk about today, the report found that no less than three out of four of the called OCMWFs and PWAFs would have accepted the request. The report also states that almost 30% of the OCMW cleaning services and 22% of the PWA companies do not employ any person with a migration background. The Minority Forum considers this to be a particularly strange finding for public services, which nevertheless have the task of combating and promoting social exclusion. This is socially unacceptable and highly reprehensible. The question now arises of course how the VVSG and the Flemish Platform PWA will deal with this and how we will deal with it. I would like to say one thing very clearly: we are, of course, absolutely opposed to discrimination, and it must be dealt with. Nor is it of any importance to us whether that discrimination is committed by a private or a public actor. Those who are guilty of this must be sanctioned. That is the absolute core message of this statement and it is certainly not the intention to minimize the report. Each case of discrimination is one too many. We would like to clarify a number of things for you. Firstly, as I said, we were very surprised, because it was somewhat unrecognizable for us as a umbrella organisation. It does not correspond to the signals we receive daily from the local authorities, from the OCMWFs and from the field of work. Certainly the OCMWFs have a tradition of working with opportunity groups from home and abroad, so certainly also with people of foreign origin. They are also the par excellence of the public body that faces these problems of deep disadvantage and exclusion when it comes to coloured poverty. They are also local defenders of people falling out of the boat elsewhere. Think of people who are looking for a property today on the private rental market and fall out because of their characteristics because landlords do not want to go into business with them. That's what they're gonna find out. The OCMWFs, and especially the cleaning services, also recruit new people to a very large extent from living wagers or job seekers. They naturally hire those people to be able to effectively put them to work with people. Saying that they are not fulfilling their social mission today is therefore a little too short for us, but once again, every case of discrimination is too much. The fact that we recognize so little of our sector in the report may have to do with the way the sample happened. Only 14 out of 169 OCMWFs were questioned and 9 out of 139 PWA offices were questioned. That is not representative, and that is probably why it is so difficult for us to point the finger at an entire sector. So Nuance is really in place. They've been working with mystery calls. We are clearly told by the OCMWFs that cleaning aid is never promised by telephone. This always happens in a conversation, in which the users and the providers together look at what is best. Of course that's not the end of the story. We take this report seriously and are looking for possible explanations. In the meantime, we ourselves have launched a questioning with our members to find out what is happening, what is happening. Unfortunately, these answers and their analysis will not reach us until after this hearing. However, we have already received some reactions. A response we have already received really points towards the absolute need for communication between the user of the cleaning aid and the person who goes there. You may think that a cleaning aid should be brushed and preferably not too much chatting. That is the case for a lot of people. Think of the two-earers. However, as far as the users of the OCMW help are concerned, the story is different. The OCMW addresses everyone with its offer and is open to everyone, but in the facts, this help comes mainly from people who are vulnerable, from the elderly and from very vulnerable households, who often speak only Dutch. The cleaning aid must not only be done there, but it also plays an important social role. Those people are being used so that they can also capture and signal the problems that arise in such families with the social services of the OCMW. That's an important nuance, isn't it? Those people are not only going to brush, but they can and must perform a much more important function. Some OCMWFs, including PWAFs, also tell us that they have very few people of foreign origin in their congregation. Especially in rural municipalities. There are therefore very few at work with them. These are two possible explanations that we have already received today, but once the survey has been processed, we expect and will certainly let you know. What will the VVSG and the Platform do with this? I have given a number of nuances to the report, but do not misunderstand me, we do not minimize this. We're gonna get to work on this. We'll take this further. We will do so in a few ways. A survey has been sent, in which we focus on anti-discrimination policy. What is being done to involve workers of foreign origin? What guidance is offered? All these cases have been questioned. We are also going to spread good practices, because they are there. We have received a number of things. For example, the OCMW Leuven has a very far-reaching anti-discrimination policy. That's also in their mission, their vision and their client contracts. With clients who are reported to behave racistly, a conversation is entered into and the contract is terminated if they do not like it. They do not choose who joins them, unless there are specific reasons for doing so. Start-up workers also receive very good training. They get language coaches on the workplace and guidance in the first year, if necessary. So there's a lot of it. The OCMW Kontich and PWA Gavere have also sent us cases in which they show that they really mean it with the anti-discrimination policy they are pursuing. The VVSG also has an offer for local authorities in the field of diversity. We started with this on the basis of a project of ethnic-cultural diversity, which ran until 2011. Through this project, the VVSG has also tried to increase political support for diversity policy among local authorities and in general. Instruments have also been developed. Information has been made available. Even now, we have a policy of integration and diversity. We have an offer to work with it locally. At Flemish level there is also a pilot project with the centre cities in the womb of the study service of the Flemish government, in which local staff policy is monitored. These data are for the first time linked to elements from the Crossroads Bank of Social Security, so that one can really see who the people who are employed by the local authorities today are. The results are not yet known at the moment, but that is for very soon, I have been told. We will see what it delivers and will certainly work with it in our support of local authorities in the field of human resources policy. The same applies to the Platform PWA. It will also make clear agreements with the PWAS. The report will be discussed at the next General Assembly and will examine together how the dossier will be further included in the PWA sector. Finally, my predecessor has already said very clearly that we are nothing with laws if they are not controlled and if we do not check whether anything is actually changing. The VVSG and the Platform PWA strongly support a strengthened and strengthened anti-discrimination policy. Sensitisation of both providers and users is one thing. That is a slope that we are certainly working on and will continue to work on. In addition, however, we are calling for action to be taken on a positive image of the use of service cheques. They are often highlighted negatively in the media. Furthermore, we are certainly in favour of practical tests carried out by the public authorities. That must be done in a professional way. We are not in favour of the mystery calls as they are happening today, because it is too unclear who they are calling. We are much more in favour of people who go on the ground, who talk to the right people within the various organisations rather than just making telephone calls. In conclusion, on behalf of the VVSG and the Flemish Platform, I can say that we are very pleased that the debate is being held in Parliament today. The reason for this was the report. I have pointed out a number of nuances on this subject, but we certainly want to continue with it. We are also very pleased that, as the President indicated, the hearing will lead to a resolution, because it must not be left to talk. We hope that the matter will continue. The VVSG and the Flemish Platform are certainly willing to continue their work there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u5	Thank you for your explanation, Mrs Debast. Mr Vandamme, you have the floor for your speech on behalf of Family Help. Please try to stay within ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u6	My name is Bart Vandamme. I am director HRM of Family Help, a non-profit organisation founded more than 65 years ago and mainly active as a family care and supplementary home care service. In this sense, we already have a very long experience of employment projects in the context of domestic support. The current additional home care service, where 2 300 employees are currently working, is actually a regularized DAC project. In 2003 we started to supplement that supplementary home care service, the household help service, with a service cheque. Meanwhile, our service check operation is larger than the additional home care service. Of course, there are a lot of differences between these two workings, but what is similar is that in both cases the employees concerned, like our caregivers, are employed in the private environment of the customer. This is an important fact, which may reinforce any discriminatory expectations of that customer who is reasoning from certain stereotypes and asks that it be not a man, not an immigrant, not a homosexual etcetera. These are questions that have already been asked by customers to our organization. For us, therefore, it is not a new fact that we should have a policy on these questions. For some time now, we have chosen, also from our point of view of our role in society, to adopt a fairly strict position on this issue and to communicate it clearly, both internally and externally. Family care and additional home care are based on cooperation and an intensive relationship between the customer and the care provider, with the element of the healthcare provider's competences being particularly sensitive. We make it clear in a client brochure that any discrimination based on race, gender, orientation or belief is also an important element that can be considered as a cross-border behavior and give rise to the cessation of care or assistance. Of course, we must also bear in mind the objective of this provision of care. We must therefore look at this with caution. We also go home to clients with psychiatric problems. Not every statement of this kind means an immediate cessation of care. When we started working on a service cheque, we immediately decided that we would be working in a different context. We provide a service that is less essential and less necessary for the customer. That is why we are also much stricter in our wording on what can or cannot be done in the area of discrimination. In our customer contract we have therefore explicitly included that we select people based on their competences. The gender, belief or ethnic background aspects are not a criterion, either for the recruitment of employees or for their involvement in the provision of services. That is why this has also been discussed in-house with the customer service for that division, which is the first contact point for both potential and existing customers. We have clear guidelines not to respond to such questions. A difficult point in this respect is, of course, the aspect of language skills. Language skills are crucial in our care in family care and also in supplementary home care. We argue that the provision of care is actually done in the context of the relationship with the client. To put it bluntly or simplistically: in family care and in supplementary home care, we do not go to the client if he is not present. This is not the case in the service cheque operation, because the presence or absence of the customer is not a matter of fact. In that case, it is about the inclusion of cleaning orders. At the end of the ride that house must be clean or the iron must have happened. Whether or not the customer was present while those tasks were being carried out is of no importance. The extent to which the employee involved is also linguistic and communicative in relation to the customer is therefore much less important. That's where we make a distinction. All our employees are sufficiently knowledgeable to include simple assignments and simple communication about the tasks they are supposed to perform. Our internal communication has also been partially adapted to this. We work with pictogram booklets, among other things, to help the foreign language staff on their way, so that they can communicate with their customers enough to record things. I'm trying to make the story short. Our customer contract also states very clearly that we do not agree with it. We were therefore pleased to note that the mystery call has proved that our internal policy has worked in this area and that the customer service staff who answered the phone have provided the answers we are seeking. It is therefore important to repeat very clearly in both communication to the customer and in internal communication the importance of dealing with any discriminatory expectations. It is not about the intention to discriminate in itself. It is a question of asking questions which are essentially discriminatory. I'd like to repeat that. We try to respond to this by bringing out atypical images in our external communication. For example, in the context of family care we bring an older man into the picture. Sometimes we are also asked to participate in a television reportage. We are always trying to ensure that stereotypes are partially broken in that area, so as to give the picture that, in terms of gender, background and colour, not only the stereotypes are eligible to provide the quality care and service that is expected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u7	Thank you, Mr Vandamme, for your presentation on the best practice at Family Help. I now give the floor to Mr Jan Denys of Randstad.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u8	Mr President, thank you for inviting this committee. I've prepared a PowerPoint presentation to put the most important points forward. I would like to give my background briefly for those who do not know me. I have been studying the labour market for some 30 years now, partly in the academic world and for fifteen years in private, in the commercial world. I have therefore been following this issue with great attention for many years. Moreover, I have 15 years of experience in a private company which has been very active in anti-discrimination over all these years. So I think I'm gonna put together some theory and practice. I'd like to share a few things with you. Mr De Witte started his speech with a very direct link, a link that is made very much, which is very representative of the current debate on the disadvantage of the immigrant community and discrimination. There is absolutely a link, I fully agree with that. However, that link is not as unambiguous as it is suggested. I don't want to make an intention process, which could happen like this. I'll make it clear right away. Why are immigrants less at work in our country, just as 50+ people are less at work in this country, as low-skilled people are much less at work in this country? Then this has absolutely also to do with discrimination. Let there be no discussion about that at all. But it also has to do with a lot of other things. Let us just name it, because in many of these matters Parliament is also involved and you have a responsibility. First and foremost, there is the poor functioning of the Belgian labour market. I am not going to dwell on it for too long, I will give you a slide later that will illustrate that. The poor functioning of our labour market is detrimental to all vulnerable groups, including immigrants. We have a lot of migration in this country, more than average, without a lot of labour market finality. We also know the problems of training, language skills and culture. Let me give you a small example, because I know that this is very disgusting from a certain angle. I'm going to tell a very personal anecdote about the cultural aspect. We also, of course, call for cleaning aid. The last time we wanted to hire a new cleaning aid, we effectively refused Moroccan cleaning aid. The reason was very simple. It was the man of the person concerned who wanted to come to our home and not the person concerned himself. We refused. We would, of course, also refuse to do so for a Belgian. The man thought he should decide if his wife could come and polish with us. It is his right to find that, but we did not answer his question. We reported this to the service cheque company. In fact, we have had some discussion about this. The latter to indicate that there is indeed some sensitivity in this matter. Fortunately, the alternative was also someone with an ethnic background. She started with us and she is an excellent cleaning aid. What is certainly playing is a weaker, more one-sided and more homogeneous network. Last but not least, let this be very clear, because I do not mean this as a relativization, but to map everything: the discrimination that is undisputed. We encounter this every day in the triangular relationship. Let me briefly explain why our labour market is working so badly. These are the figures on the flow from unemployment to work after a period of one year. How much of the unemployed is at work after a year? Have a look at Eurostat's figures. These tables are made available by the High Council for Employment and yet this slide is little known. It is good that it is also shown in Parliament. We are in the penultimate position, just before Greece. We are not going to dwell on this for too long. However, you should not be surprised, because this is the general figure. If this general flow is already so bad, it is not surprising that the weakest groups of ethnic minorities, but also The poor functioning of the labour market is very important. I know that the government has included many elements in its government statement. We are, of course, mainly talking here about discrimination in terms of ethnicity. The report of the Minority Forum has also been prepared in this context. These are, of course, the various discriminations. We have the gender problem, the ethnicity problem, age and sexual orientation. The latter is a bit the climber in the ranking, because it is also a ranking I give here: what weighs the most socially at the moment? Who gets the most resources behind them? Who gets the most in the press? That is undoubtedly gender, with the whole discussion from high to low. Then there's ethnicity. Age is clearly much less sensitive in terms of problem than ethnicity and gender. A month ago there was a very big article in De Tijd. A large company indicated next year to recruit 200 young people. I haven't heard anyone comment on that. I'm on Twitter, too. This is a rather discriminatory introductory phrase. There was no real reason why it only concerned young people; it was not in the context of an internship obligation or whatever. Suppose a company says, "We're gonna recruit men or women, the barf would be too small." Ethnicity, ditto. Around age, we can do a lot of things with impunity. I sometimes bring that up in discussions, including among fellow politicians. Last week, a fairly well-known politician said: that does not weigh the same weight at all. I dare say here that he is making a very serious mistake of his mind. If it becomes clear to the public that there are different sizes and weights in this area, then I fear that this will have a negative effect. I'll give you my opinion. You'll do whatever you want with it, of course. Of course, there are many other forms of discrimination. Sometimes I say provocatively, yet not relativizingly, that discrimination is perhaps even more rule than practice in the normal functioning of the labour market. What discrimination? I'm just speaking from our own practice. What do you see on the slide? You will see 229 cases coming from our consultants to the person who has been assigned to us for many years to assist our people in concrete cases of discrimination. Sometimes they are very clear and our people can usually work with them themselves, but sometimes there are discussions. It's 229 cases. We split them up to find out where that discrimination came from. You can see the figures and see that ethnicity is a very important factor. As a whole, she's just one of the factors. Gender and age are also important factors. So it's not just about ethnicity. After confrontation with the practice it turns out to be a lot of different things. So don't underestimate what it means, even in triangular relationships. How much discrimination is there? I made the exercise myself once. I have asked our people, based on their gut feeling, to estimate in percentage how many discriminatory questions there are, all-in, so not just for ethnicity but for all the criteria. I just applied the principle of the wisdom of the crowd. I've added up all the percentages. However, it remains difficult to measure this. The figures are very different. However, this is the figure: for the average consultant we find the very provisional figure that one out of five of all applications has a discriminatory background. In this way, I would like to outline a few things. The report of the Minority Forum has clearly created a kind of momentum to begin with mystery calling. We do mystery calling ourselves. So does the industry. For us mystery calling is a very good instrument to work internally. There are also clear arguments pro, to possibly do mystery calling for the government. I looked at the problem over the weekend. I see two great advantages. In any case, the representative of the people sends out the message that the issue is being taken seriously. We're not gonna let the case pass. It's a big problem. We're gonna take action. I also do not rule out that it works preventively, because people notice that the government controls. Part of it is repression. However, I am not someone who believes that repression is not necessary. However, I want to be clear. In my opinion, it's a bad idea for the government to do mystery calling itself. I would contradict myself if I were not in favour of the people involved doing it. First of all, I have problems with the moral authority of the government in the file. I know that this is confronting, but I think that the government in this respect... Mr De Witte has just said: it is not because a centre has been set up, which is doing a very good job, that the government is exempt for the rest. I find the government's bilan poor. Look at the employment figures in the public administration. Look how surprised people are at the figures of the Minority Forum. I wasn't surprised at all. I have written more than once that the problem is certainly not just with us. Only they didn't listen to that at the time. I am therefore very grateful to the Minority Centre. I dare say it's a godsend that this report has come out. It can no longer be said that this is a problem of one specific group. However, we knew. Look at the complaints at the center. There are not only complaints about the broadcasting sector. Mr De Witte, you said it yourself. There are also complaints about the public authorities. In fact, I believe that the number of complaints lodged is about the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u9	I just said that (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u10	If we make the comparison, it is about fifty-fifty between public mediation and private mediation. In short, I have a problem with the moral authority of the government in this matter. It's a moral problem, not a legal one. The legislative power lies, of course, with Parliament. It's a triangulation. As far as mystery calling is concerned, all the persons involved bear a responsibility. This means that in mystery calling, the unsub, the one from whom the question comes, remains out of the question. Anyone who responds to it, the accomplice, bears, in legal terms, guilt. The killer can't wash his hands in innocence, but the unsub is out of the question. I will not go into all the arguments, but I would like to say that the mystery caller in this case was a white family that asked the question. Of course, there are also non-white families with identical questions. We also have Muslim customers who ask similar questions. So what approach do we follow? It's not that simple. This is also mentioned in the next question, which concerns: reasonable accommodation. In practice, we sometimes address questions from people with a Muslim background. For example, in the medical sector, women with a Muslim background are not treated by men but by women. Is this an infringement of the anti-discrimination law? From term komt uit Canada:reasonable accommodation. If we apply that principle here... For the record, Mr. De Witte, I don't know. This is an issue: where do we apply it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u11	It does not exist in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u12	We have applied it in the medical sector. Are we going to apply it there and then for example the elderly Belgian, Fleming... The word has already been spoken. In the case of an eighty-year-old, only Dutch knowledge, sometimes only dialectically, who says she likes to talk to whoever he or she can talk to, the accommodation raisonnable also seems to apply to me. That's easy to get around. The smart guys will get around this. The smart people who do not employ cleaning women with an ethnic background but answer all these questions perfectly are protected in this system, while companies that employ perhaps 30% or 40% of immigrant cleaning women... We have about 30% of them. Someone who responds wrongly, again, their own debt is in this system, because the percentage of people employed is not taken into account here. I have a problem with that. Then I come to an important point, which is very easily ignored. I'm sure it's possible. Yeah, I think it's possible, but at least I haven't found an example of a government in all my foreign contacts... that's not proof, I haven't asked them all 190 and I may have overlooked something. In any case, I've been looking very intensively for a few days and I don't know any examples of mystery calling by the government about discrimination. I do not think we can say that we anticipate discrimination. Mr De Witte just said that we are far behind. I do not know if that is true, in terms of participation in the labour market, but does that mean that discrimination is the worst, which seems to me to be a little too short. In any case, I have not found any examples of countries applying this. That should at least give us some thought to whether we are on the right track here. Finally, I've been doing homework and I've spoken to a lot of labor lawyers. They say that they will, of course, be better off. My point is that you are on legal quicksand. I'm not a legal expert, and others can explain that better. I think you're going to spend a lot of energy with little result. I now predict in public, I would very much like to confess my wrongness in five years' time that if you introduce this, it will fail. It won't have much effect. What can we do? Because I don't want to give the impression that I want to wipe everything under the mat. We are much better able to use our scarce public resources on other matters, but then everyone must assume their responsibilities, including those who have so far acted as if they do not care. We can work through data analysis, data mining. Big data is a big issue. The government can also use big data. Then use it! One can detect the white companies via big data, not one hundred percent, but one can detect the mouse, of which there is a certain suspicion. That is not an accusation; one can authorize the inspection to go to these companies instead of calling consultants and start an investigation, because there is always a story behind the figures. Let the inspection talk to the companies. It will then be possible to achieve intelligent targets through benchmarks, and I would like to explain why. If a company says that it does not employ immigrants, or much less than in similar companies in the same sector and region, the inspection may indicate that it does. I wonder why this is happening. Maybe there's room for discussion? In this way, intelligent targets can be imposed. In this respect, I believe in intelligent targets. Otherwise, I think it would be very difficult to set targets. We cannot hide at that time, because the workforce is the workforce. One cannot practice in that. In the selection behavior one can always practice. There is no way that we can put our finger on that. Not so much in the workforce. Let the unions play a role. How many trade unions have raised this problem on the works council in these white companies over the last 15 years? They can ask what the issue is. They can ask why no Moroccans come in there? We do not need a law for that. I say this because we will not be there if we do not all work together. We have known for fifteen years the problem that we could not solve on our own. If we all work together, I think we can do a lot. Of course, an active follow-up is needed. It can't be about freedom happiness. I believe that the social partners should play their part in this. I have just mentioned the trade unions, but the employers' federations of the sectors of the companies surveyed also have to take part in the bathtub. If everyone doesn't go in the bathtub, it won't work. You may score, but it's not gonna produce any results. In the absence of cooperation or manifest unwillingness, the stick may be used at the end of the journey. I have nothing against the stick. We have long been pursuing an anti-discrimination policy not only in Belgium, but also in France. Humor is a way to do something about it. On the slide you will see a cartoon of our French colleagues, with which I would like to close. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u13	Thank you, Mr Denys. I shall now pass the floor to Mrs Myriam Gérard of the CSC trade union in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, geachte parlementsleden, the CSC is very pleased with the initiative taken by the chairman of this committee and I thank him for inviting us to do so. I think I come just about after Mr Denys' speech because we will not really get out of this very serious situation without taking on a share of responsibility. But before we go there and make proposals on which we can make some progress because the unions take some responsibility, and before negotiating with the employers, I have another more general consideration to share with you. In fact, by opening up the work on discrimination, especially of ethnic origin, particularly with regard to the incidents that took place around the service titles, revealed by the study of the Minderhedenforum, we open a box of Pandora, which is that of all discriminations. I understand that this is the objective of this committee's work. Without wanting to make lyricism a little easy, I think that in fact, you are tackling something considerable, which is the contemporary form of the social question, through the question of discrimination. You've started from what's going on in the service securities sector. This is in fact indirectly related to domestic work. The press is also beginning to take an interest, behind the service titles, in what is happening in embassies and elsewhere, around domestic work. This also leads us to the particularly fragile position of women, who are more concerned with these issues; several speakers have mentioned this here. This also concerns the most vulnerable of the undocumented. So you are opening up a great deal of work here, which I am delighted to hear, even though I am speaking today in the face of a poorly provided assembly, but it is of choice. And I hope that all the parliamentarians here are aware of the scale of the task and your responsibility. It was this same assembly that, at the end of the 19th century, had opened debates on the social issue. And I believe that this committee has a particular responsibility in this regard. I now turn to more pragmatic, less global considerations. First, I confirm that complaints about discrimination on work related to service titles also exist in Brussels. This is not a problem in Flanders. I have not had time to contact my colleagues in Wallonia, but I assume that this exists throughout the country. I also wanted to mention the very particular context in which the debate that you initiated here is taking place. We are shortly after the events that took place on January 7th: the Charlie bombing. Why mention this fact? Because I was one of the organizers of the march in Brussels on 11 January. At that time, we all had banners, not "I am Charlie", but "Together against hatred", "Samen tegen hat", and "Freedom of speech". The reason we chose these slogans, we had thought about it well. Fortunately, the press has little interest in the organizers. That was not the object! The important thing is that more than 20,000 people have, in a very short time, mobilized and found themselves behind these slogans. But I can tell you that behind the organizers were Henri Goldman of the Union of Jewish Progressives of Belgium, Farida Tahar of the ASBL TETE (All equal to Work and School), Vincent Cornil of the MRAX and François Ryckmans, journalist and president of the Union of Francophone Journalists. Why mention this fact? Because very quickly in the media, the debate took place in France on the question of the absence of young people from suburbs during the immense demonstration that took place in Paris. Why in Belgium were visible Muslims so little present, when we were more than 20,000 in Brussels? Then came the debate on the issue of young people attracted by jihadism, which had already been initiated in 2014. In addition to the most fanciful rumours circulating via the Internet and social networks, serious studies have been carried out. What do these studies show? That among the young people attracted by jihadism, in one of the three identified profiles, there are good students, full of projects and hopes, who have personal ambition or idealism and who quickly realize that either the social elevator is blocked, or that the meaning of life in our society escapes them. Brussels is a particularly interesting laboratory on these elements. I will come back to this, since my trade union duties are essentially rooted in the Brussels region. Secondly, we referred to the extraordinary tool that we have and that will improve and develop other fields, namely the socio-economic monitoring carried out by the SPF Emploi and the Centre for Equal Opportunities. It's a fantastic instrument that we're going to have to develop. I must not remind you that we are one of the worst pupils in Europe. It's also about our pride. M. Denys avait tout à fait raison de dire: "We have a very bad labour market. That has to change." You are absolutely right about that! With regard to this socio-economic monitoring of the Employment FPS, I come from the outset to a proposal that the public sector should set an example and be a pioneer at all levels of power. In passing, I would like to acknowledge the work done by the authorities in Flanders, which have equipped themselves with a monitoring tool for their civil service. This does not yet exist in Brussels. To my knowledge, this does not yet exist in Wallonia. There is a very good monitoring carried out on the gender issue in Brussels but not yet on the issue of ethnic origin. We can therefore build on the work done in the north of the country. I do not know, however, what political use this data is made of. I'll take a look at it. In any case, I find this field of investigation quite interesting. We need to stop this poor functioning of the labour market. We have a historic responsibility to change things, whether federal, regional or even community authorities in some cases. The social partners must assume their role. I will list five proposals, five concrete ones. The first one is about something that looks quite annoyed, which seems to be a very small thing of nothing at all. It is a work that we have done at the Economic and Social Council on workers under student contract and on the conditions of access to student work. Mr Denys had mentioned the issue of networks as one of the problematic elements. That is what we are tackling through this concrete project. Mr President, do I have time to list a few figures? [[Oui]] Student contracts are increasingly successful. I am not talking here about the debate on the statutes, which is a completely different debate. Here, the debate is about access to this first professional experience. While Brussels accounts for 30% of student employment in the third quarter of 2013, only 7% of job-seekers are domiciled in Brussels, compared to 63% in Flanders – I am talking about the overall figures – and 27% in Wallonia. Young people living in Brussels account for 10.4% of young people between the ages of 20 and 25. This under-representation of young people is not to be found in their low qualifications or low levels of schooling. Too often, this is what we are putting forward in Brussels. It's a total mistake! Each year, roughly 46% of young people entering the labour market have higher education or even university degrees. This is constantly underestimated because we are focusing solely on unemployment figures and the importance of low qualifications in unemployment. We then took an interest in business practices. We had an agreement with the employers; we had an agreement with the other two unions in the Economic and Social Council. We have tackled the practices in large companies and administrations because they are an important pool of jobs and also, what is very much troubling to us trade unions, are also the best organized companies. What's going on? Most of these companies reserve these jobs for staff children and management children. I can give you examples of companies that don't even hesitate to put it on their site. This is the case, for example, of Belgacom, of La Poste. Go to their site but maybe they've changed it since we released a press release on this issue last year. What is the link with discrimination? You know that the unemployment rate in the Brussels Region is extremely high. If your parents have the misfortune of being unemployed, you will of course never have any chance of getting into a student job, in any case not in the big companies or the big administrations, where there is a framework supposed to accommodate them properly. If you zoom in even more and go to some neighbourhoods in Brussels where the unemployment rate is close to 70% and where the concentration of families of immigrant origin is phenomenal, my demonstration is that this kind of practice does not give these young people any chance. This is indirect discrimination. We have consulted the Centre for Equal Opportunities on this issue and it believes that there is scope for dealing with it also in terms of indirect discrimination. However, studies have shown that these student jobs play a considerable role in the career path and the chances of gaining access to a suitable career path. This is why they are kept between themselves, within the company, because it is known that it is important. We held a round table with employers and trade union delegates from large companies on January 5. You can visit the Economic and Social Council website. The minds are ripe today; I think that if we had organized the same round table five years ago, we would not have been successful. The discussion here has been very easy, both on the employers' side and on the union delegates' side. Everyone felt that it was a problem and that it needed to be changed. Our proposal is to act diplomatically. Workers regard their rights as acquired. You have to go in a smart way. First, there is a cultural climate to work and feed; a clear political discourse also to be held on these practices, which I believe to be feudal practices. Gradually, we have to conclude collective agreements which specify, for example - this is a lead - that every year we increase by x % the number of student jobs that we open outside and in particular to children whose parents are unemployed. This is one possibility among others. If one does not succeed, for example, if in three or five years, nothing has moved at that level, it will be up to the legislator to decide to take matters in hand. France did. This is a lead that I am presenting to you, gentlemen and ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman. Second track, it'll be faster. Extend socio-economic monitoring to those sectors where measurable action plans can be made. This is also a point raised by Mr Denys, and a comparison is made between high value added and low value added sectors. We also want high-value jobs to be accessible to young people with diplomas and who have completed the whole school course correctly, so as not to find these young people as taxi drivers, which is also common in Brussels. Thirdly, on the abuse detection device, Mr. Denys seemed very critical of the testing function. We would like to see a debate on this. We did not make a clear statement to the CSC on the appropriateness of testing. In any case, we believe that, if we want this to serve as evidence to the court, the Centre for Equal Opportunities would probably be the best place, given its independence, to ensure these tests. Our magnificent legislature must be able to operate. Another thing is the effectiveness of anonymous resumes. Experiments have been carried out, but not always in good conditions. It is worth reopening a discussion on the subject. Fourth: to measure the consequences of all government decisions that have indirect effects of discrimination in terms of exclusion from the labour market. This includes measures adopted by and supported by the previous Government. We believe that a federal strategy for young people without a diploma would have its full place alongside regional and community skills. In view of the changes in the legislation on unemployment concerning persons receiving integration benefits, we believe that, at a minimum, the ONEM could provide a more flexible framework to facilitate the alternation of the new unemployed and those who will be excluded and be left without any benefit. These courses should not be restricted to students alone. The rules should therefore be extended and made more flexible within the ONEM. That's a lead we're suggesting. Second lead. I don't know if the federal government still has any skills in employment assistance. If so, could he not reserve them to young unemployed people at the end of the law as a result of the regulatory change in terms of integration allowances? We're looking at this track in the Brussels Region. Could the federal government go in that direction? Moreover, the young guarantee for which European funding exists could not only be preventive, as it is currently thought, but also be curative. It seems to us that the European Commission is opening up to this state of mind. We need to realize that there are short-term problems that need to be addressed. Third lead. The federal government is funding a six-million-a-year fund for youth projects for sectoral funds. Our suggestion is this one. Could the federal government not set aside some of these funds for actions for young people of foreign origin who are excluded from integration allowances? It's a lead we suggest. I conclude with the last point, Mr President. At the time of selection, it is also a question of promoting the criteria of competence and not only the question of diplomas. Let me turn here to something which, in this country, is extremely sensitive. In an ideal world and if our history in Belgium had been different, we should all, at least, be bilingual! That's clear. In Brussels, all young people should be bilingual in order to increase their chances in the labour market. Unfortunately, the situation is far from that, and with regard to young people leaving vocational schools, for example, in French-language education, many of them have not had Dutch classes in years. This is a scandal for which the French Community is responsible! That is the situation. What should be done in the short term not to prevent young people who have skills but who lack this linguistic competence, the good command of Dutch, from having their chances on the Brussels labour market and why not Flemish? There was a time when there was less unemployment, when people were hired who did not know languages but learned them in the labour market. It is therefore a question of giving these young people their chance or not. Many of them are already bilingual. They must have another mother tongue that is more or less well mastered, with Dutch as this language has a great success in the Brussels Region. The question I am asking is what language requirements are required for certain functions. For certain functions, it is obvious that you need to be able to speak the language in a row, e.g. sales. But there are other functions for which this is discussed and for which one could think. I conclude by recalling that the track of collective agreements is fundamental, that if we do not succeed, we will need new laws, new rules and, unfortunately, we know the fate of social inspection in our country. An important political agreement will be needed to increase these resources. We're not going in that direction. This requires a serious political decision. The way to collective agreements is therefore quite interesting. We need good control instruments. Finally, our request to the federal government is that, whenever it takes action, it analyse in detail the consequences of these measures, in particular by spatially analysing the neighbourhoods and municipalities affected by these measures, especially where they affect municipalities with a high concentration of families of foreign origin.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u15	Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Miranda Ulens of the ABVV.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u16	I can reassure you: it is not a gift to speak last, but the time I will speak less was for Myriam. I can assure you that many of the slopes that Myriam has put forward are also shared by the ABVV. I am Miranda Ulens, not so long federal secretary and also a member of the National Labour Council Bureau. I say this very specifically because we believe that the social partners have a role to play in this debate. Since I am the last to intervene, I will certainly not repeat what a number of speakers have said, but a great deal of attention must be paid to the socio-economic monitoring that was cited by Mr De Witte and by Myriam. I also wanted to brief you on Adecco's file. We have been obliged to go to court, because there was a temporary agency that at some point, from 1995 to 2001, used a list called "blank-bleu-belge'. That's very derogatory, but it wasn't just that. It wasn't just the intention, it also had the effect in the facts that some people didn't have access to a job or work on the ground. We won that case in court. You could say we're proud of that, but no, because it's already very bad that we have to go to court for that. I'm sure I'll invite you to review that verdict as well. This is important to us for three reasons. Firstly, it recognizes the importance of a representative trade union to be able to act in this area. Secondly, it also recognises the fact that some companies prefer profitability even more rather than respect for ethical principles. We cannot agree to this: we believe that ethical principles should always prevail over such criteria. Thirdly, for the first time in Europe a reasonable sum of financial sanctions was added. You'll see why we think that's important. Not for money, of course, but if one continues to talk, if one continues to have good intentions and if one relies on people of good will, then one does not come. We believe that we need to act much more restrictively and put a number of things into laws and regulations. I will not quote the survey of the Minority Forum. What I would like to mention, and we are proud of it, is that together with the other trade unions and the employers' bank in the National Labour Council, for example, we have already been able to work out a number of issues, such as collective agreement No. 25 equal pay for men and women, as in collective agreement No 25 equal pay for men and women, as in collective agreement No 25 equal pay for men and women, as in collective agreement No 25 equal pay for men and women, as in collective agreement No 25 equal pay for men and women, as in collective agreement No 25 equal pay for men and women, as in collective agreement No 25 equal pay for men and women, as in collective agreement No 25 equal pay for men and women, as in collective agreement No 25 equal pay for men and women, as in collective agreement No 25 equal pay for men and women, as in collective agreement No 25 equal pay for men and women for men and women, as in collective agreement No 25 equal pay for men and women, as in collective agreement No 25 equal pay for men and women, as in collective agreement No 25 equal pay for men and women, for men and women, as in collective agreements with men and The day before yesterday we received a response from the Equal Opportunities Centre and we will continue our study work there. This really is a call for this debate to be continued through opinions in the National Labour Council. We are quite ready, both the employees' representatives and the employers' representatives. We have taken initiatives not only at interprofessional level, but also at sector level. For example, employers' and employees' representatives in different sectors have adopted codes of conduct. What struck me in the last hour was that a great deal has been said about lower-level occupations. I think this debate should be seen more widely. For example, we were able to conclude a sectoral agreement with the banking sector to take initiatives for migrant workers with a high level of education. Someone used a personal anecdote. I'm gonna give you one, too. I used to be a trade union secretary for the financial sector. During the social elections in Brussels, I wanted to put forward people who worked in the bank concerned and who happened to have a different sounding name, although they were born in Brussels. A number of employees in that bank felt that we had compiled an Al-Qaeda list. As long as such reactions are received, it is known that it is still wrong in society. We must respond to this. I can tell you with great pride that my people were elected and that they now represent the employees very well in that bank. This also means, in practical terms, Mr Denys, that there are indeed activities at enterprise level and that our representatives have a great deal of attention to do so. We also have the Caterpillar company, which has signed a charter on equal treatment and combating discrimination. We are therefore taking concrete action in the workplace and in the social dialogue. What does the ABVV do more specifically? Since 2010, we have a contact point for discrimination on the website of the ABVV. We get about a hundred complaints a year, which we naturally follow up. We have the campaign on discrimination in the interim sector, with on the Dutch-speaking side the campaign 'Effe check', where trade union representatives on a website can find a checklist to check whether personnel policy takes into account the diversity at work. We have a cooperation with the Equal Opportunities Centre for the exchange of information and the handling of complaints. Then, of course, we also have our internal services that are involved in the topic of debt securities, such as gender mainstreaming in the inter-Western service, such as services to promote diversity and combat discrimination, and diversity counsellors that raise that theme every day in companies. Then I'll get to the slopes. Myriam has already mentioned several. You will see that ours are not very different. It is important that we work towards a society in which the rights are equal for each employee and where the choice is made on the basis of competences and objective criteria. This requires a multidimensional approach with action points, for example improving the legal framework. That's why we're here. That's why you've organized a hearing here today. There are still three anti-discrimination laws, those of 2007, which could be supplemented by implementing acts. It is important that the information that comes from socio-economic monitoring is better used. It is important to develop measures to encourage better practices, as Myriam has also said, for example by reducing social contributions for certain target groups. It is also important to create a regulatory framework. If it only depended on people with good will, we would not make much progress. It is important that there is proper regulation. Of course, employers are not very warm for that, but perhaps it can help if there is an obligation, for example an explicit justification if a candidate is refused. Whether to make a good code of conduct on equal treatment mandatory for large and medium-sized enterprises. Or that an internal complaint handling is agreed in the companies. Or that the social balance should include a heading for efforts on diversity. Or that a situation is worked out by an objective and neutral setting to do tests. There are therefore several possible actions in which you as MEPs also have a role to play and in which all actors in this society must fulfil their duty. We can also develop awareness-raising actions. Finally, I believe that the problem will persist until society is reflected in our companies. Then perhaps it is not labeled as blanc-bleu-belge, but we must work on that. As long as we still have hearings to take place, there is still a lot of work to be done. We're gonna cooperate, and I think you're gonna.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u17	That was nice in time, that's also an art. I would now give the floor to the members of the committee for their reflections and at the same time their questions to the panel. It will then be up to you to answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u18	Mr President, I would like to thank the speakers for their comments. One speaker was more surprising than the other. I have a number of very specific questions. Before I say it, I would like to reiterate that we must not limit the problem of the employment of immigrants to purely discrimination. I have already said this morning that there is, of course, discrimination, but our labour market, which is not working properly, is not only a problem for immigrants. The greatest discrimination at the moment is age discrimination. Let us not forget that either. These people are not discriminated against because they are too old, it has to do with the problem of the rigid labour market. As long as we in this committee, as well as civil society, close our eyes to this problem, I do not think we can talk about the other problem of discrimination. For me, it's an en-and-story. I would like to say once again that we will not focus solely on discrimination. This has happened far too much in the past and the result is not there. Of course I want to look at that, as I said this morning, but we must also look at the rigid labour market. Unfortunately, there is the abolition of the trial period, the whole issue of growth wages and so on. We need to look structuralally at the labour market in order to facilitate access to the labour market. Secondly, I am in favour of tackling discrimination. I have a very specific first question for you, Mr De Witte. Apparently, since 2010, the Centre has had a cooperation agreement with the Monitoring of Social Laws inspection. It was not so clear to me in the morning, but apparently there has been no or only one CV of discrimination so far. Perhaps it would be helpful if you could explain how it works when the center receives a notification. Doesn't he go to the Superintendent? After all, that is a right to monitor and monitor these matters. What is the outcome of the cooperation agreement? It is very important for the committee to know that there is a 2010 cooperation agreement, which is the result of it and which it has led to. My second question is for the speaker of Family Help, Mr Vandamme. I hope it is not right that you think that language is not so important to polish and iron. We must be careful with such statements. Language is always important. This has nothing to do with discrimination, but with competence and competence. If I want a cleaning lady for home help, I also think it's important that I can understand her. It's a very bad signal if you, from Family Help, take a little downsize. That is not good for the person concerned either. Perhaps it would be useful for you to be a little clearer about that? My third question is addressed to both trade unions. It is also a pertinent question for you: how important is diversity for the unions? Why am I asking that question? People are very keen to point out that the private sector employs few people of ethnic origin. I think the government needs to wipe its own door first. There's a lot of catching up to do. Our party has already done so at the Flemish level, via Geert Bourgeois, with the targets. Now we also want to see for the first time how many immigrants work within the federal administration. To date, 2015, we do not know how many people in the federal administration have an ethnic origin. As long as we don't know, we can't know if we need to step up. In short, the government really has to set an example. That is point one, before we talk about the private sector. I believe that the trade unions also have an important role to play. Let me talk about Antwerp for a moment. There the unions really have the power to say who becomes a port worker and who doesn't. Let's take a look at the big pool of dock workers. Who will deliver the recognition of port workers? It is not the big multinationals, not the big port companies, who say they want white port workers. It is the trade unions that bear a very important responsibility. What is the percentage of port workers with immigrant roots? That's what the unions have control of. What's the percentage? I'll tell you: 2%! Two percent, in a multicultural city like Antwerp. No professors are asked there. Port workers do not need a huge degree, but recognition by the unions. This is the message I want to send to everyone: we all need to work together on diversity, we all need to see what we can do better. As far as the government is concerned, there are a number of points in the coalition agreement. The private sector can, of course, do better. We will see how we can enforce more diversity there. I'm really pissed off about this. I also hear many complaints from the immigrant community: we apply, but we do not get recognition as a port worker. That power, that power, is with the unions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u19	Mr President, I would like to thank our speakers. This is the first time I have attended such hearings on discrimination. So I learned a lot today and that was of particular interest to me. I have a lot of ideas for the future, but you will allow me to go back to what was said when I read the report of this committee. I do not have the experience of Mrs Demir, who, obviously, is already well aware of the situation!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u20	First of all, I would like to thank the speakers of this afternoon for the detailed explanation. It was very interesting. I have certainly remembered that the Equal Opportunities Centre said that there was actually a legal obligation, and that is also the position that we had already put forward last week, so that the government too would use the means of practical testing. Today it can and is used, among other things, by the Centre, by trade unions and other human rights organisations. It is also possible in principle that the government would do it. This morning we have heard that there is still a need for refinement. That is what we have always said. Mrs Debast, I am really in favour of the government setting a good example at least for itself. We can ask private matters, but as a government we really have to set a good example ourselves. I do this not only with words, but also with deeds. When I became active in the city council of Antwerp twenty years ago, I saw that the employment of immigrants was more than inadequate in the multicultural city. At that time, I put forward the target of 13%. That was finally introduced. Now we can look forward to a serious progress, with 12% of people of ethnic origin. Of course, that target still needs to be pushed forward, because if you look at the multiculturality, there is now a much larger group of Antwerp people of ethnic origin. So I think that the government should really set an example, that we cannot point the finger at the private if we do nothing ourselves, which does not mean that the private goes free. They must, of course, also make their efforts. That is why I think it is very important that it should not be said: yes, but we are sometimes in municipal councils or we sometimes answer that there are not many people of ethnic origin employed in the service cheque company. That's not the point. The discussion revolves around the following. If you get the question, you have to answer that there is no mention of this form of discrimination. Whether they have many or few people of ethnic origin, that is not the point. That you cannot deliver immigrants because there is very little living in your congregation is another matter. Afterwards it has to be considered whether the service cheque company has few immigrants because there are also few in the municipality tout court, because it is a rural municipality where, so to speak, a magnifying glass is to be searched for immigrants, or whether it is a large city and it is indeed abnormal that a certain service cheque company would have been colored completely white. For example, that would be abnormal. I would particularly like to welcome today the good example of Family Help. The test has shown that this organisation sets a good example. The non-profit association has now also explained why it is. Family help itself indicates a number of things to the customers in advance. When customers sign up, the customer contract makes it very clear that any question of discrimination will not be addressed, regardless of whether it is discrimination based on sex, belief or ethnicity. The customers therefore know in advance what they are up to. They know they shouldn't try either. It's a good thing Family Help keeps to that. There have been questions about the language this morning. I'm glad you're raising the issue, too. After all, language is not insignificant. As you have pointed out, it is particularly important that the person in question does her or his work very well and can at least converse at least minimally. If she or he speaks perfectly Dutch, that is so much better. However, cleaning aid has a different role to a social assistant. A social assistant has to chat with the people and therefore has a completely different role than the cleaning aid, which one should, in principle and normally, be able to work alone. However, I am not saying that language is not important at all. However, it is important to state that a minimum level of knowledge is sufficient and that such knowledge should not be a ground for discrimination if the person concerned is competent and does his or her job well. Mr Denys, you have put forward a number of arguments pro and counter to the practical tests. I certainly won't repeat them all. It is important, however, that the following is particularly important. It has already been pointed out this morning that the practical tests will not solve all the problems. It is true that the problems in the labour market also need to be addressed and the skills of a number of young people also need to be developed. At the same time, however, it must also be made clear that discrimination is not being tolerated and a clear signal must be given. I am also pleased that you acknowledge that the tests can have a preventive effect and can be a stick behind the door. That's also what we gave you. They are not a magic tool but an important tool, just as with Family Help, that passage in their customer contract is not a magic tool. Apparently, it does work, though. Apparently, there is no discrimination or almost no discrimination on their part either. I'll share your analysis when you say we need to solve it with intelligent targets. I have already said that we have included in the government agreement that we will set a good example as a government ourselves with smart targets. Our group tabled a resolution on this matter a long time ago, and I am pleased that this is included in the government agreement, as well as the importance of socio-economic monitoring, as Mrs Gérard also said. The Equal Opportunities Centre, together with the FPS Work, has also helped to set this up at the level of the federal government, the FPS Work. In Flanders this has been happening for a long time and has paid off. This has been done, first of all, in the administration, and there are initiatives in the private sector. That is the line that we absolutely need to follow: to set a good example as public authorities, but also to encourage and support the private sector in a positive policy. Of course, we must also ensure enforcement: discrimination is punishable and if people continue to be guilty of it, despite the sensitisation and possible mediation, I mean, service cheques, for example, then action must be taken. I'd like to ask you something. When I say that the private sector must also pay its dues, my question to the trade unions is that, together with the employers, as my resolution states, the smart targets should also be introduced in private. It is up to you to do it yourself and to see how you will do it and in which sectors. Of course, I am also talking about smart targets. This means that the figure in one sector may be much lower than in the other, that it may vary from region to region. In the first instance, socio-economic measurements will also have to be used, as Mr Denys has also argued. It will only be possible to see whether action should be taken in a particular sector if the situation is found to be abnormal. If a city has 30 % inhabitants of ethnic origin and if this percentage does not reflect in employment rates, even in the employment of low-skilled people, this is abnormal. No one is asking for people to work above their level or to discriminate positively, because we know that this is counterproductive. However, the opposite must not happen either. Discrimination against those who do have the right competences must now be stopped. If we find that even in the cleaning sector there is such discrimination, this must indeed encourage us to take action. I hope that it will not just be words and that this will be effectively picked up. I therefore think it is important that we continue to do so. We must work at the same time in all areas; we must work on sensitisation, prevention and mediation, but we must also focus on the tasks of the public authorities and those of the companies themselves. I would argue that the entrepreneurial world should first examine where the main problems arise. Subsequently, the problem cases should be effectively passed on to the inspection so that it can check through practical tests whether there is discrimination. That way, the government can act. In my opinion, the use of practical tests should not be left to the private sector alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u21	Mr President, I too would like to thank all the speakers for their comments. I have a question for the Equal Opportunities Centre. Mr De Witte, you say that self-regulation is not enough to combat discrimination and that practical tests already exist in several other sectors. You're suggesting we organize these tests. How do you see that in concrete terms? What procedures do you have in mind? What tasks should they be assigned to? What will be the role of the Social Inspectorate? What will be the role of your center? What will be the role of the government? Can you clarify that? I also have a question for the trade unions. You are actually advocating a collective agreement on anti-discrimination and practical tests. Could you give us a little more explanation on that? How do you see this collective agreement? What should this collective agreement say?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u22	In turn, I would like to thank you for your presence and for your words. I would like to come back to the lower employment rates of people from ethnic-cultural minorities. It is widely acknowledged that there is. It is also in Minister Peeters' policy paper. Of course, I believe that we all agree on this. There is an amalgamation of many factors which mean that these people have a lower employment rate. This indeed has to do with education, with the target group policy in Flanders, which unfortunately is being reduced. Those people are no longer a target group when it comes to the lead to work. In education, we see that equal opportunities are being cut. Those are all things that play along. If we recognise that there are different factors, we must recognise that we must continue to make a firm commitment to them. Then we sometimes see the opposite movement happening. I hear that it is said here that it is actually a mistake from the past to ignore the other factors, which also play a part, in the case of discrimination. I think, however, that we have been doing the opposite for a very long time. Why do we still have no tools and no legal framework that really make it possible to identify things like discrimination and give people the legal tools to address that? I think this committee is about enforcing anti-discrimination legislation. These other factors are dealt with elsewhere in this Chamber and in the other parliaments. This morning I mentioned the example of highly educated immigrants. I still think it's important to do that again. There too we can see that these people are having a very difficult time with regard to their employment. There are even people who have plans to leave or even leave, which is a very regrettable matter. There is a kind of brain drain of highly educated immigrants back to their country of origin. We'll see about that. People are sometimes simply sick of proving themselves three to four times more than someone who is born and raised here in a manner of speaking. We really should take that seriously. I am therefore very sensitive to the arguments raised by Mr De Witte. Leaving it to the sector alone, when comparing it with other sectors, is simply absurd. Either one is very naive, or one does not take it seriously that there is discrimination. The same applies to the fact that it would be left to people who would have to report it. Would one leave speeding offences in the hands of people who have to report it? That too is absurd. So I really hope that the political will is there to recognise that we need more tools, beyond sensitisation and beyond self-regulation, in order to make this really legal. If we do not do so, I believe that we can simply throw anti-discrimination legislation into the bin. Then she is nothing more than beautiful windowdressing and we do not really take the issue seriously. That's why I'm making my call. The fact that we are organizing this hearing recognises that it is about discrimination in the labour market and that we must also look at ways of tackling this discrimination in this area. In doing so, we do not have much benefit in bringing in all kinds of other things, which we certainly recognise and on which we must also work. This is really about anti-discrimination and how to identify and combat discrimination. If we come to a resolution here in committee, I hope that there will be a legal framework that must be put in place, for example, to allow for practical tests. I hope that my fellow Members will be prepared to do so if they take discrimination seriously. I have a few more questions for Mrs Debast of the VVSG. Are anti-discrimination clauses included in OCMW's and PWA's contracts? If a private individual calls on a cleaning woman from the OCMW, where there is social contact between the two, and asks a question that we do not like to hear, we should not necessarily report it, but rather focus on sensitisation and the like. I suppose there are also other types of people or groups of people who ask for services from OCMW &amp; PWAS. Is there a possibility of reporting to higher authorities or some kind of notification? We must make a distinction here. I understand from your speech that it is important to pay attention to this, because there is a very amalgamation of customers of the OCMW and PWA services. I also have a question for Mr De Witte. You yourself point out that the past few years have been more and more focused on mediation. What is your evaluation of that, especially with regard to how that could relate to the legal slope? What framework of consideration are you considering?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your various interventions. Having to follow two committees at the same time, I am also called in the Committee on Health. I would therefore ask you to excuse me and leave it to my staff member to listen to your answers. I would like to make a first comment. There is a legal framework. What is at stake is, on the one hand, the lack of effectiveness of these laws at the operational level, and, on the other hand, any failure to comply with provisions that would make it possible to be more efficient and effective in supplementing the law. I say that there is a lack of effectiveness at the level of the existing legal framework, since, in practice, the results are poor. Two thirds of service securities companies discriminate and, by definition, violate legislation. It's not from today. In the light of other studies carried out and put on the public square, there were already negative results calling for the different types of discrimination, including the one which is of particular concern to us today. We talked about the mystery call this morning and some of you talked about it this afternoon. It will be necessary to determine how to give the competence of the mystery calls, including to the social inspectors. But could there not be other complementary solutions? If so, what type are they? Again on the effectiveness of law enforcement, I would also like to ask you about the difference between the number of complaints on the one hand and the number of minutes on the other. How do we explain it? Is there at any time a follow-up by an authority, possibly the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities? What authority could explain and monitor this gap between complaints and the lack of minutes in this regard? Another major part of the questions I would have liked to ask, particularly to Mrs Debast, since you have spoken about them yourself, concerns the public sector. I understand the justification that you're trying to provide. However, if the public sector does not lead by example, I have the impression that it will be even more difficult to move this important issue forward overall. The figures are known. The worst score is clearly achieved by the public sector in terms of discrimination. Again, it's not new. This is not the first time that this point has been highlighted. Beyond the tests of justifications demonstrating the differentials of the public sector, would it not be time, whether at your level or at the level of your colleagues in the Union of Walloon Cities and Municipalities and Brussels, to implement concrete measures to correct this in a more incisive way in this public sector which, I repeat, must set an example? I think that in the private sector, there are also initiatives that have been taken and that are really interesting, we talked about it again this morning, whether it be mystery callers again or other measures that could be proposed, suggested, accompanied at the level of municipalities and CPAS to try to be less discriminating. I think this is particularly important.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u24	I also have a number of questions. Mr De Witte, in your speech I missed some figures on the number of complaints received. In my city of Kortrijk we have an urban hotline for discrimination. I know that there are also such hotlines in Aalst and elsewhere. Are these things gonna end up with you? What happens to that? So I have a question about numbers and evolution. With regard to legislation, you take a strange view. You say that the legislation has a civil law and a criminal law side. You say it's a good thing that this is being dealt with in civil law. In other words, you do not consider the criminal law aspect to be so relevant. You're gonna leave that out of the way. This morning we heard the inspection. They have explicitly asked to improve the criminal justice side. Moreover, it has been pointed out that discrimination in itself is not a criminal offence but merely the intention, the announcement or encouragement of it. Mr Vanden Broeck of the inspection specifically said that. He also said that the penal provisions of the anti-discrimination law are common law, which means that the arsenal of administrative fines cannot be used, which the Social Inspectorate can do in other areas. The question is very simple. Either you don't think the criminal part is important and it's better to get rid of it. Either it is adjusted so that it can be used. To put it that way, however, I do not see the intention. Do you know, by the way, about reports of discrimination and any criminal convictions in the area of discrimination? A third point is self-regulation, Mr De Witte. You said there's room for it. People can do that. I think you're getting over that a little too easy. In the broadcasting sector, in particular, special efforts were made by mystery calls. There was also an improvement seen. If the service cheque industry were to do this, I am convinced that there would be an improvement. I therefore do not think that we can expect all the benefits of the government that intervenes, controls and acts. It is good that the sector itself is also making efforts. I think that a solution could be to combine self-regulation in the sector with possible public intervention for those who are really persistently miserable. We also put this question to Mr Muyldermans of Federgon and Mr Vanden Broeck of the Social Inspectorate this morning. That could be an idea. Do you know, by the way, that there is a blueprint in the works of the administration to work on such instruments? I have another punctual question, a question that we asked this morning. Is the mere fact that a customer asks a company to send a cleaning aid that speaks Dutch, whether discriminatory or not? If a service cheque company takes that into account, is that discriminatory or not? Questioning the language, regardless of nationality, is that discriminatory or not? That is a question I have for you and possibly for other panel members. After all, I see someone shaking no. I hope the answer will be uniform. I have another question for Mrs Debast of the VVSG. I understand the steel might have been a little limited. Nevertheless, I am disappointed by your reaction. You know I'm also the mayor of an important OCMW myself. This morning Mr Muyldermans stated that the reaction of his CEOs around the table was always that the problem did not occur to them and that it never happened to them, until they were confronted with subordinates who, because they were not trained for it, gave in. So you're going with the story a little too easy. I wouldn't shoot the messenger or the investigation. I would particularly focus on the question of how the public sector can set the example first, even more than the private sector does. The moral authority of the government, which Mr Denys referred to, is obviously at stake here. The government should set an example. You have expressly ruled in favour of practical tests within the government. That is a clear commitment. However, it would not be a bad thing that, for example, the supervisory authorities also make efforts in this area with regard to OCMW debt securities, mayors and PWA debt securities. Mr Denys, I have some questions for you. First of all, you have your doubts about the practical tests. That is strange, because, first of all, Federgon itself has successfully organized such tests in your sector. They are also successful, as we noticed this morning. If, on the other hand, you argue that they are not successful, it would be real news to hear it. However, the tests work within Federgon. I must mention that I congratulated Mr Muyldermans from the start on these tests. I believe that self-regulation, mystery calls and the system of practical tests can indeed bring about an improvement. What is your attitude towards the foregoing? Secondly, you have the advantage that you can make an alternative proposal, which is a credit to you. After all, it is the first alternative proposal we have heard. However, I wonder whether your proposal will be lonely. I wonder if it will be as effective as the practical tests. What do I mean? First of all, you all know the statement that the river was on average 30 centimeters deep and the man drowned anyway. When using samples or averages, the extremes will be difficult or impossible to identify. The question then is of course what comparative samples you will use in your English model. After all, it is a British model. Imagine that there is a sector in which as good as all employees at the moment I do not like to use the word "beneficiary" of Belgian origin and that there is a problem in this sector as a whole. If necessary, you won't find anything with your steel. After all, you will find that there is no problem and that everyone is responding to the situation, while there may be a problem. Moreover, I do not know whether there are any figures available today. I would like to ask Mrs Ulens from the trade union to add diversity figures to the social balance. Those numbers exist today? At Federgon, we had some reservations, for example, about the concrete results, such as the names of the companies in breach. I'm not asking for press coverage. A confidential disclosure to the inspection would be a step forward. Federgon doesn't want to do that either. We've been talking about data mining. Without sets, however, that is not obvious. Mr Denys, I would like to make one final point, which I do not think is clear. You say that you are prepared to work with binding targets. In other words, a company that wouldn't answer to your steel would be in violation. Will you then impose fines? In fact, you would then impose some kind of quota, and you would then have to call it quotas and not more targets to which companies would have to conform. I think you'll go a long way. I don't really understand your persistence against government-organized practice tests. The combination of data mining and punctual intervention in companies, if self-regulation does not work, would be a much better model than the mere focus on data mining. To the people of the trade unions, I would like to say that it is also good to look in their own heart or in their own organisation. The problem of discrimination and racism is widespread. When the debate is held on the social media, I am always terrified of how people react. Someone said, for example, "I do not mention names "that it is obvious that he does not accept someone if he does not want them. A lot of people don't know that that's a criminal offence, that it's against the law. I can imagine that there are also many members in the trade unions who react in the same way. So it might not be a bad thing if your organisation were to take action on this phenomenon as well. I believe that not many people have a moral authority when it comes to discrimination, not in the public sector, which has been proven, but also in the private sector, and probably not in trade unions and employers. The only thing I have remembered from Federgon's research is that you know that the word'multinational' is always used in a negative way, just as the multinationals in the broadcasting sector are not discriminated against. I see Mr. De Witte nodding. Finally, I found it: the word "multinational" in a positive context. If that's not a wise decision. Mr De Witte, you have the floor first.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u25	Indeed, it is true that the long-suffering treatment of discrimination here in this country to this day is not shared by multinationals. Adecco, a global company, couldn't laugh at the case being raised here today, and the damage this case has caused worldwide. You should try doing business with the United States if you have been convicted of discrimination in Belgium. I wish you every success. I think we should be aware of that. Multinationals take such matters much more seriously. In my view, this is an invitation to reflect on the steps that can still be taken to create an entrepreneurial environment that can be compared with other countries. I try to deal briefly with the questions. Mrs Demir, allow me to ask my colleague about the number of cases in which we have worked together. Excuse me, but I don't have those numbers with me. There is indeed an agreement because the monitoring of social laws has a number of powers that we do not have. I repeat, this is very good. They have investigative powers. They can enter a company and learn about documents, computer files and the like. This power does not belong to the Centre for the sake of clarity. In this sense, there is an interaction. If we get a report, we can also ask for matters to be dealt with by the Monitoring of Social Laws. We can ask them to take a look at a particular company to see what's going on. We can also ask for a report on this. I will ride straight to Mrs Lanjri's question. What does anti-discrimination legislation and EU legislation say in civil matters? I combine this with Mr Van Quickenborne's question. If there are facts to suggest that there is discrimination, it is up to the other party to argue that there were legitimate objectives and appropriate measures that had nothing to do with discrimination. This is true in civil matters, never in criminal matters. Historically, the law of 1981 was merely a penal law. In 2003 the whole civil hatch was added. A number of things have stuck to racism, while they do not apply to other grounds for discrimination. Some say that the anti-discrimination law discriminates because a number of cases in the field of racism can be prosecuted criminally, while this cannot be done for sexual orientation, age, disability and so on. We are fervent lovers of this civil-law approach because it will allow for a much more neutral debate. There's the penal law on hate crimes. I'm thinking of the murder of Jarfi, Kotnik and the attack at the Jewish Museum. These are criminal offences. Hate messages can also be prosecuted. In relationships between citizens a landlord and a tenant, a taxi company and his customer, an employer and his employee... is a civil approach to my taste absolutely appropriate. This also determines European legislation, which has been transposed in this way, and that is a good thing. So I would like to say that this is not a matter of making it a priority for the police and the judiciary. No, of course it does not work in civil matters and it must be dealt with in a different way, because it is not a question of criminal proceedings. I and our centre do not argue in favour of this being a statement like another one in order to put the whole of discrimination law into criminal law. We have brought a lot of cases before civil courts, technically speaking, strike claims, so that, after negotiated solutions proved impossible, we can actually ensure that the law is applied. In that sense, it is not so much a question of proof, but rather, and I quote the law, facts that may suggest discrimination and divide the burden of proof. Why is it being divided? Because it is almost impossible for the victim of discrimination to demonstrate such discrimination, let alone to demonstrate the intention. I can't. In criminal law one must demonstrate the intention; without intention no crime. If I accidentally kill you, I will not be convicted of premeditated murder. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u26	Yes, of course. That's true. But if there's no intention... well, let me close that hatch. Why is self-regulation not enough? Dear friends, if you are driving on the motorway, you are free to look at your mileage counter and see if you do not drive over 120 km/h. You can do that. You can regulate yourself. There's nothing wrong with that. No one forbids self-regulation. But when traffic legislation stipulates that every motorist must see for himself whether he is driving 120 km/h and that all cameras and flash checks are abolished, that is a bit crazy. It is not prohibited to put a pipe in your car to blow to determine your alcohol content. You can do that, but what are we doing about this legislation? We are also going to carry out checks to see how this is done in practice. I have nothing against self-regulation, everyone can regulate themselves personally and a sector can regulate itself, but when a legislator makes a law and then says that he leaves the application of that law to self-regulation, there is something in my head that cannot be clicked together. Then abolish that law, if it is purely a matter of factors. No, of course not, because the Constitution states that equal treatment is guaranteed, the EU Treaty states that there is equal treatment and the European Convention on Human Rights states that we guarantee equal treatment and so on. We can get out of all these organizations. Then we can, so to speak, abolish that law. Belgium is no exception. This is true throughout the EU and far beyond. Whoever says "A" has to say "B." When the government says that something is forbidden, it is up to the government to instruct its administration, the instruments and the means to verify whether that law is actually being applied. It's the government's job. That brings us to the question of how this is done. It is important to note that we have very few reports on these matters. The figures for 2014 have been available on our website since 3 February 2014. You're hardly gonna see any reports of these triangulations. Of course there are no reports of that. We have been measuring this by a different route for many years. If I may take a side step, we have published a barometer Housing. We made a call to real estate offices, stating that we had an apartment or a house to rent and if they wanted to rent it out for us. Of course they replied in the affirmative. On the question of whether it could be ensured that there was no foreigner in it I use the word that was used One out of seven answered one out of seven.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That is the situation when we measure it in this way. Which candidate-rental knows that he is not called because the landlord has given instructions not to call Muhammad or Fatima for that house, because they are by definition not eligible? In these situations one has to measure in a different way. And how does one do that? There is almost no other way to check whether or not to comply with the law. The flash camera for this kind of situation is indeed the situation test. That is what happens in practice. When you measure that, the scales fall off the eyes. In the interim sector, the VRT has carried out such a test. It turned out that six out of eight companies discriminated against, some of which were well-known to Mr Denys, as he said at the time. And then, we've been suggesting that for years, they've made an exercise of their own. Then they cheered, because only 32 percent drove through the red light and discriminated. It was only 32%. Since that first test, I have never heard of subsequent mystery calls in the sector. So I'm very curious. Is that gonna take place today? That test was based purely on origin. Does this test also take place on the basis of age, gender, disability and other criteria? I don't know the answer. Mrs Willaert, yes, we are fully committed to negotiated solutions. There are actually five conditions for that. Then you will understand why we are fully committed to this. Firstly, those who have been guilty of discrimination, whether intentional or non-intent, must acknowledge the facts and the error. That's a first step. One must say: yes, this was not okay. Secondly, I should like to apologise for the person who was the victim of the discrimination. Thirdly, that requires compensation for that person. Call it compensation or call it a recovery. We can come up with all kinds of things and we have already found wonderful solutions to meet them. Let me give you an example. A dancing operator who did indeed find that people were refused because of their origins said: 'You will immediately get ten tickets for free drinks and free entrance for the next Saturday and you will bring 20 more friends and they will get them.' That's a form of recovery. Fourthly, we want to talk to that organisation about how things went wrong in that individual case. A notification has a signal function that things may go wrong in an organisation. This is what we use to work with this organization and with our training service to ensure that these situations are avoided in the future. Prevention is better than repression. Fifthly, we agree that we will communicate about this. You will find on our website a whole range of negotiated solutions, anonymously. We're not talking about shame and blame. We want to encourage people to say that things go wrong in life. One can make mistakes. I am always improbably happy when people say: 'Of course that was wrong and now we are going to correct it.' Then I'm a lucky man. Not because we have satisfied an individual detector, but because we have made sure that society has improved a lot. Because the company acknowledges that mistake, because it wants to learn from that mistake, because it wants to take a step forward. Then I am truly a very happy person. I have already answered Mrs Fonck's question, which has just disappeared. This is a matter for the government itself, for the public services. Let me just say that in any international treaty there are actually three actors who have to do their job. The first actor is always the government itself. The government converts and applies European directives, the government ratifies UN conventions and has to implement and publish them. The so-called civil society, including the social partners, has an important role to play. A very limited role remains for the independent mechanism, in our case the Interfederal Equal Opportunities Centre. However, it doesn't matter to put that off at the centre, because the government itself has to ensure good legislation and its application. Mr Van Quickenborne, a selection of the 2014 figures that we published on 3 February: 4 627 notifications, 1 670 files and 14 court cases. Lawsuits are only held in those cases where it was indeed about hate crimes and hate messages. As a specific example, I mention the case of the murder of Ishane Jarfi in Liège. In the other cases, these are cases where the other party does not wish to be aware of its breach of the law. If you don't want to hear it, feel it. If one does not want to apply the law properly, then it must be done at all costs. With regard to the difference between civil and criminal matters, I have explained why, in our opinion, the civil approach is certainly justified. In my view, I have sufficiently indicated that there is nothing wrong with self-regulation. However, at some point we may wonder why certain data are not known, as you yourself have mentioned. In particular, the results of internal controls shall not be disclosed. By the way, once again, when one knows that an external control is coming, a smart company will first organise internal controls to prevent the company from running into the light of an external control. The question was asked whether the mere fact that a cleaning aid is requested that speaks Dutch is discrimination or not. I would like to answer two questions. Each time a case has to be looked at on its individual characteristics. In general, I never want to answer that question. The key is always the question of relevance. Let me give you an example: a Polish man comes to my house to polish. Neither I nor my wife are at home at that time. You must tell me why this man should know Dutch. Someone has to explain to him what needs to be brushed, but that explanation is for the service cheque company. Some service checkers have developed logos and icons to indicate what or how. In short, is communication necessary, yes or no? If it is not necessary, please tell me why this person should know Dutch. Mrs Demir, of course the knowledge of the language is important. But the question is not whether knowledge of the language is generally important. The question is: is this knowledge relevant in this specific situation? Suppose this comes before a court, the judge will check whether there is a legitimate purpose to demand that that person knows and speaks Dutch, and whether the means are appropriate and necessary for that purpose. For example, demanding that the mother tongue be Dutch will not be considered appropriate and necessary by the court. I'll give you that on a note. Learning Dutch is one thing. The mother tongue is something else. I have already seen many vacancies in which it says "mother tongue": Dutch for matters where people wonder why it would be important, in the name of God, for the mother of the person in question to speak Dutch. This is the big question, isn't it? I believe that I have said the most important thing. If I may, Mr President, I would like to leave; I have another meeting at the centre to prepare our next board of directors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u27	Mr President, I would like to return to that cooperation agreement. The figures will give me by Mr De Witte, but there is something I still do not understand. Maybe it's me, but I personally think that when reports come to you, those reports need to be investigated, after all, we live in a state governed by the rule of law by the Social Inspectorate. They have a whole arsenal of control powers, and they have to investigate this when there are reports of discrimination. My question is very specific. The inspection says that in the past it has set up zero pvs. I don't understand that, not even as a lawyer. We have three laws on anti-discrimination, and I do not understand why no Pv has been drawn up so far. The reports are coming in to the center, but you have a cooperation agreement with the inspection. Isn't that passed on? I don't think anyone understands that. There are three laws, but a law without penalty is worth nothing. That's what the professor taught me when I was in college. Either there is no sanction attached to that legislation and then I think we should look into it, or the problem is with you, because you will get the notifications. Are those notifications transmitted effectively to the inspection and are the inspections investigating them? The inspection says she's got zero pvs. Well, then I don't really understand where it goes wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u28	Mrs Demir, I invite you to carefully read the Flemish Decree of 10 July 2008 and the Federal Law of 10 May 2007, where you will read the sanctions for violating labour law. That's three or six months' pay. As a rule, that is six months, otherwise three months' pay, when one is convicted in a court of law. There are therefore sanctions. Secondly, you will read in that law, as well as in the cooperation agreement of 12 June 2013, which regulates the functioning of the Inter-Federal Equal Opportunities Centre, which provides the centre, which is important, with an opportunity for citizens to act outside justice. Any citizen can go to Justice, any citizen can go to the police, file a bourgeois party and bring an interim action. Everyone is free, no one has to pass the center, but the center is an alternative to justice. Love it or hate it, but so it is. That gives us the opportunity not to work with a Social Inspectorate by definition which, I am sorry again that I was unable to be present this morning, apparently thinks very criminally. That allows us to do what I have said to Mrs Willaert. What's our approach for years? We're always gonna talk to the other party. We ask what happened and why. It is not because someone reports discrimination, that this was also a fact of discrimination; let us never forget that. These are complementary mechanisms: we are in no way obliged to forward any report on labour to the Social Inspectorate, that is not the case. We shall do so if we consider it useful and necessary. This Parliament and all the other parliaments have, quite rightly to my liking, wanted the Equal Opportunities Centre to carry out its tasks in full independence. In this sense, we have a whole procedure to examine what is the best approach in a specific case. That is not always through the Social Inspectorate, but it may be one of the means. There is absolutely no obligation: we are not a channel for every notification, that is not how it works. This Parliament has wanted it to be a parallel mechanism which will, of course, be accountable to this Parliament, by definition. That's the construction you made, just to be clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u29	In addition, you are in favour of practical tests, and I am in favour of that. Are these practical tests organised by the Social Inspectorate, or also by the Centre and other organisations? I'd like to know about you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u30	We need to keep two things apart. I have just heard Mrs Demir say: no law without sanction. In order to be able to sanction, one must first check whether the law is actually being applied. I believe that the government must ensure that its laws are applied, otherwise it will be in serious default, which is obvious. How does the government do that? In this situation one should not say that the victim can come forward. That is an inadequate answer, that is clear. The National Lottery runs tests to see if stores sell tickets to minors. The police are using decoy cars. It could also be about economic legislation. In all these other contexts, mystery calling is an established practice. It passed the test on Cassatie. This instrument can be used by the government. That's a fact. Either the government wants that, or she doesn't want that, but that's another discussion. How will the government enforce its own legislation in these relations? Apart from that, where there is a presumption of discrimination, an association may collect an association of interests, a trade union, an association which has anti-discrimination in its objectives, the centre of facts which may give rise to suspicion of discrimination. It's always about facts that can lead to suspicion, because there's often confusion. A practice test isn't evidence. Those are facts that may suggest. It could be facts. I'm not saying it's a fact. In a state governed by the rule of law, it is up to a judge to make a final judgment. Let me give you an example. There are a thousand candidates for a job, 500 men and 500 women. A hundred of them are recruited. They're all men. This is a fact that might suggest. Is that right? I don't know. Then it is up to the other party to explain how it is that men and women have come out of an equal relationship only men. If there is a good reason, no discrimination has been established. If there is no good reason for this, then the judge will condemn my pronosticism on the basis of law and case law. That is the situation in a nutshell. The question here is what the legislator is doing and what the executive is doing to ensure that this legislation is actually complied with. That's here at stake.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u31	The question was as brief as the answer could be: are these practical tests organised by the government or the inspection, or also by organisations such as yours and others? What is your opinion on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u32	I think the character is completely different. A government needs to control an entire sector. It's the government's job. The test done by the Minority Forum should have been done by the government. Such tests should not be left to others but to others themselves. If it turns out that the center receives a report about an interim office, a service cheque company, a taxi company or an immobiliënkantoor... I give the example of Jan Hans in Antwerp. The latter has run into a problem of discrimination twice. After discussions and a second conviction, he has proved willing to take measures to ensure that it is done with discrimination. The agreement has also been made that we may test and check again. We agreed to this in common with Mr Hans. That's an individual case. By definition, the centre has that possibility. This is about how an entire sector should be monitored. I'm sorry, but that's not our job, nor that of the Minority Forum. The government is failing to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u33	Mr President, I would like to add my voice to your question and clarify it somewhat. We heard the Social Inspectorate this morning. At that time, it was clear that it was best to be an en-en-story. It is good that the sector, for example the interim sector or the employers, is self-regulatory. There is also a need for cooperation with the public authorities to report cases where they themselves find that there is a problem. The government can then carry out targeted practical tests. This morning it has also been mentioned that it is impossible for the inspection services to check everything. I do not entirely agree with you on this point when you say that control is not the task of the Minority Forum or of your Centre. When we talk about the sector, we must not confuse two kinds of sectors. On the one hand, there are the employers themselves. In this respect, I believe that the sector itself has a role to play through self-regulation and self-control. We have seen the good examples in this area at Federgon. We must not let this go. Let's use this. However, that is not enough. In my opinion, employers should cooperate with the government so that the government can intervene very closely in certain companies or sectors where problems arise. If we have to start from scratch, I wonder what we will have to focus on. If we want to work efficiently, it seems to me to be a good idea to work together. The government also has a role to play in the practical tests, which is not happening today. This must be done in consultation and properly targeted at the area in which the problem arises. Of course, where it is possible, there must be conciliation first. We call for awareness and prevention, first and foremost; mediation where it can still be done, and enforcement and strict action where it has to be done. The latter element is often missing now. You are right that the government should play a role in this respect, but not just the government. Employers must also be involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u34	I have no objection to you involving the employers. If that is the fastest and best way to achieve your objective, namely that legislation is being complied with, then I will jump a hole in the air. However, the sector is not always a party to this. I illustrate that with a small anecdote about the mystery calls that Federgon has organized. The funny thing is that in the sector there is a code that requires that any discriminatory demand is reported. So hundreds of discriminatory questions have been asked in the context of those mystery calls. Well, the government could ask how many reports of discriminatory questions were listed. There were no reports of discriminatory questions. This code, which the sector itself adopted, is not being followed by the sector. A discriminatory question must be reported. That didn't happen. Were there any discriminatory questions? Of course. They were organized by the sector itself as part of the mystery calls. Then we have to fine-tune it a little bit. Then we must be a little firmer on that. Of course, if that's the fastest and shortest way, I'll jump a hole in the sky. The government will remain responsible. That's my point. I'm aiming for the target. The legislation must be applied. That's all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u35	Mr De Witte, I am just saying that the government has a role to play and must not keep its hands off it. However, I think that the sector should also take up its role, because otherwise the mopping with the crane is open and we do not know where to start first. That's all I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u36	Well, I have replied that I agree with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u37	Mr. De Witte, we'll let you leave. Thank you for your presentation, which was very enlightening.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u38	Mr President, I will begin with the comments on the report. For the sake of clarity, it is not the intention of the VVSG or of the Platform PWA to minimize the report. I have tried to make it clear what we want to do with it. We are working on it effectively. We have already made that known to the Minority Forum. It is our job, I believe, to report as a umbrella of local authorities that the sample is not representative to point the finger at an entire sector. I think it is our job to bring that nuance into the debate. After all, we know that there are also many good examples. Mrs Willaert asked a question about OCMWFs and PWAFs who are already pursuing a strong anti-discrimination policy today. There are. That is also the subject of the survey. Last week we received answers. I have mentioned Leuven, Kontich and Gavere, where there is a strong commitment to anti-discrimination and where one does not address the demand of discriminatory customers, but says that the customer must go elsewhere. This practice also exists and this nuance must be made in the debate. We will receive much more information through the survey. After all, it is one of the elements to which we have been poking. I have clearly heard the plea that the government would serve as an important example in this respect. The VVSG wants that, too. As I have already said, the OCMWFs have a long experience of working with opportunity groups and with colored poverty. These are often people who do not work elsewhere. We see this not only in the case of service cheques, but also in the case of Article 60, a very large part of which is of foreign origin. The will is certainly there to include the example function. However, I would like to introduce a nuance. Mrs Willaert asked who these customers are. For the PWA offices, a large proportion of these are two-earners, who also use service cheques from other agencies. For the OCMWFs, it's really different. They're speaking to another clientele. They're open to everyone. Anyone can ask the question, but in the facts, aid goes mainly to people who are very vulnerable, such as older people, and to multi-problem families. We must not ignore the social role of poetry aid. We even organise poverty education for poetry aid, for example, so that it learns to capture, which is very important. It is true that cleaning aid should not be a social worker, but sometimes cleaning aid can easily enter families rather than social workers. In this respect, it is important that cleaning aid should also take account of any problems, after which he or she will leave it to the social services. That is why we also underline the importance of the knowledge of the language, for the sake of communication in those families. I join my colleague when he talks about the appropriate story: one really needs to see that there is a match and that communication is possible. I am certainly saying yes to the question of exemplary action, but we must also bear in mind any accompanying measures. As OMCW aid is mainly used for vulnerable groups, it is necessary to ensure that communication is possible. Hence also that the cleaning aid is well supervised. Such good practices are already common, including in Leuven with its job coaches and training on the workplace floor. Of course, that pays off, but that has a cost. We must not just look at the cleaning aid as such. If we want local authorities to play a role, we also need to look at the support that the cleaning aids themselves need to carry out this task, especially for the OCMWFs. We are certainly in favour of practical tests by the government and the supervisory authorities. There is effective monitoring of local authorities and there are also the sub-ministers. If we want to take the regulation seriously, if we want to take changes seriously, we have nothing against monitoring them and sanctioning those who break the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u39	Mr President, the previous speakers have already responded to Mrs Demir's question, and indirectly from Mrs Lanjri, on the language aspect. I believe that, as services for family care and supplementary home care which are also active in the service cheque sector, we clearly distinguish the importance of the language according to the role that one takes in a particular client situation. We are of course very sensitive to the need for our employees to be able to communicate with their clients. However, this communication is of a different nature when it comes to a caregiver who also provides hygiene care and who organises care for people on the ground, in the presence of the client. I have just said that in one case we simply do not go to a client who is absent. For example, if he is in hospital or on vacation, there is no care. When it comes to a service check operation and the objective is to achieve a clean household, where for example the ironing has been done, we must be able to communicate on these aspects, but not on psychosocial support. We differ in this from those colleagues in the public service who provide the same things, because it is our finding that the funding for the service cheque operation is insufficient to provide our staff with the right framework to provide that psychosocial support. The public sector finds other means to do so. When we look at the funding for service cheques, it is impossible to do language coaching among other things. We do this on a limited scale in service cheques to ensure that people have the basic knowledge to communicate with their client about the more practical matters and about the small talk and the calves, but not when it comes to taking up a mission in the context of detecting emergencies. Our position is that the service cheque channel is not the right channel to take on that task, but that is a very different story from the story of discrimination in the labour market. Language is therefore important, but in view of the task that is being carried out. For pure service cheque activity, the assignment is that a basic knowledge of the language is sufficient in most situations. We come with our service cheque employees to people who are also clients in family care. Indeed, these are often people who speak only the dialect of the region. This is a point of interest when it comes to involving the employees. However, that is more an exception than a rule. The fact that a general, good control of Dutch is a requirement for the employment of a service cheque employee is therefore a far too heavy requirement and, so to speak, a disguised form of discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u40	Mr President, before replying, I should like to formally distance myself from Mr De Witte's comment. I am also sorry that he left the House that Randstad would have been among the guilty in Volt's infamous and infamous broadcast. I wish to formally distance myself from this, just for the record, because that is not right. Mr De Witte also makes it seem as if it is the most normal thing for the government to organise mystery calls to enforce legislation. I believe that most developed countries have anti-discrimination legislation, and I even suspect that many countries are doing better than we are, but I do not know that there is any country that uses this tool. I think it is important to explain this to me. Mr President, I come to your question. There is, of course, a huge difference between mystery calls applied by the government and mystery calls in the context of self-regulation. In self-regulation, people wipe their own doors and assume their own responsibilities. Here the government is going to take over, only in these specific organizations. This means that very large groups, companies and sectors remain out of the question. The government is the guardian of the public interest and in that respect I find that strange. The big advantage of my proposal is that everyone is in the bathtub, from the port pole in Antwerp to the agency offices, the service cheque companies and Family help, all companies come along in the bathtub. Is that blissful? Of course not. I didn't say that either. One very powerful point is the following. There is a difference between engaging in discriminatory acts, which is punishable, let that be very clear, and having people working. Let me give you an imaginary example. If the practical test is carried out, a company that does not employ any ethnic minority but correctly answers the question will go free, while a company that may employ 30% or 40% of immigrants and sometimes gives a wrong answer has a problem. If the objective is to have more immigrants at work, then I need to be explained. You'll have to explain the logic of that to me. I don't see it. It is a work in progress, of course, and there is a progressive understanding that I might be able to agree with it if we go through data mining... I think the President has just suggested it. For the record, Mr President, I do not think you are well aware of what is technically possible, because we have data at company level. Those data are available, they exist. Whether it's legal to use it is another question. This must then be looked at through legislative work. Those data exist and we can find out from any company, both public and private, what the employment is like. Make use of it, and then those differences will come out. Suppose there is an entire sector where nobody works; frankly, Mr President, I think there are other factors and this is not just a question of discrimination. But it's not a problem for me that the inspection's gonna get off there either. Again, I think the inspection... I am very pleased that some Members have asked the question of efficiency here. Watch what you're doing for your inspection. You're gonna have to make choices. It has already been said, it is not just about ethnicity. Mr De Witte also asked what we are going to do with all these other forms of discrimination. I don't think you'll be able to make it if you pursue your intention to do so, to do it just for ethnicity. I fear that other groups in society will respond to this. So if you bet it, you'll have to bet it wide. Then I do not know if there is sufficient manpower for that. I don't believe that. I would like to formally confirm it here, I would be happy to make the appointment within five years, but I think the results will be modest, I am not going to say inexistant. I do not believe that this will produce much results. You may be able to denounce a case of discrimination here and there. Bon, that can be good for public order and even serve as an example. My main concern is to get more people to work. I haven't heard how we're gonna do that here. I have just indicated how easily this can be avoided in principle. Again, not a single immigrant in service but a correct answer to the questions, and one goes free. When you employ 40 % immigrants and you make a mistake, a professional and moral mistake, you do have a problem. For me, that wrings, I don't know how you see it. I would also like to invite you to contact your international colleagues. You may have international political networks after all. Other countries also have a policy of discrimination. Teach me those examples. Mr President, if we are faced with major problems through data mining, with companies on which we have serious suspicions of discrimination due to the low number of immigrants or other groups employed, then it may be interesting to carry out these practical tests. We can then rely on a specific case. The instrument will then be used very efficiently. In that case, it seems to me that it is worth considering. In combination, I see more possibilities instead of using them very widely. I'm sticking to my prophecy. I would appeal to you in ten years' time, at least I will do so, in whatever position, but I do not think it will produce much results. If I'm wrong, I'll admit it. That must also be a concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u41	The first question was why diversity is important to trade unions. What do the unions do? There was also the remark that we must first sweep at our own door. That is correct, you are right. At an interprofessional level, good work was done on this. It is at sectoral level that we still have a lot to do. Mrs Demir, you say we should work together. We have all said that trade unions and employers also have a responsibility to cooperate with politics. The problem is, of course, in what way and how we begin to do so. I call for a clear overall approach and clear strategic steps. I believe that we can first work together on a different climate, on sensitisation to change the mentality in our society. Unfortunately, the Belgians are not sufficiently aware that we have become a country of migration. Even in Brussels where I live and where it has been changing phenomenally over the last 50 years, this has not yet been understood by all Brussels citizens. In the young, this changes faster than in people my age or older. I therefore believe that the first point of attention is to promote the climate, and we can do so together. A second focus is the success stories. That is what we started, for example, at the Economic and Social Council. We had, for example, got KBC around the table. Work for KBC in Brussels about three thousand people. Last year there was no Brusselser there. Probably they also have very few people of ethnic origin in their midst. However, KBC has sat around the table with us and they are open to change. After the success stories we can work on a collective agreement. In my union, we do not all agree on the content of that collective agreement. In the Brussels-Capital Region, my trade union is in favour of quotas. If it doesn't work on the ground, we want quotas. We are talking about quota temporaires. These quotas can be abolished if things go better. We can perhaps start with job students, interns and so on. I shall now come to my third point. If such a collective agreement does not have sufficient effect, a legislative approach must be taken. ... laws that can be enforced - this is the whole debate that we conducted earlier - with enforcement orders and a sufficient body of inspectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u42	Mr President, in reply to the questions you and Mrs Demir raised about trade unions, I can only speak for our union. However, I suppose the answer for the ACV/CSC will be the same. Diversity is, after all, a common thread through our workings. We have recruited diversity consultants who provide training and develop projects to promote diversity. That is inscribed in our basic principles, in our constitution and in our statutes. In addition, I have just looked at the website of the ABVV. After two mouse clicks I arrive at the hotline. As Mr De Witte said, it is better to work preventively. If there is a problem, it must be reported and then we will investigate it. We will then also take action if it is an effective problem. We are working on the problem, not only within our trade union but also, of course, in the workplace. I now come to the answer for Mrs Kitir. There are several possibilities. At enterprise level, for example, the diversity aspect can be included in the social balance sheet, creating a measurable instrument. Initiatives may also be requested from the National Labour Council. For example, an opinion is currently being requested on the subject of the anonymous curricula vitae and on the obligation to refuse applicants. The collective bargaining agreements can also be further developed and made somewhat more binding. Cao No. 38 on recruitment and selection, for example, can be adapted. If Parliament asks for an opinion or gives an impetus to it, this means that we in the National Labour Council will make serious or even more serious work on the issue. There are many ways in which work on the dossier can be carried out and progress made. At a certain point in time, it was also asked whether we should punish and therefore impose a penalty on those who do not. I'd look at it differently and see the glass always half-full. Let us create a social contribution for those who make special efforts for target groups, for example. It is better to give a positive impetus and to work positively on the problem than to put forward the repressive element. There are several possibilities, as I mentioned in my first speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u43	I thank the panel members for their answers. Are there any explanations or questions? Mrs Demir and Mrs Lanjri would like to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u44	I have two more questions. The representative of the ABVV referred to collective agreement No. 38, which regulates everything regarding recruitment and selection. This collective agreement also contains a whole section on equal treatment for applicants. As far as I know, this collective agreement has been made generally binding to a very limited extent. I think there is already a legal problem there. The competence in this matter lies with the NAR. Why has this collective agreement not been declared generally binding? Of course, that's what it starts with. I have a second comment. We have talked here about discrimination, about more immigrants in the labour market and more workers. I would like to mention last year's figures from the FPS from socio-economic monitoring. A very important observation is that the employment rate of Belgian women is 70%, compared with 30% for women from the candidate countries and the Maghreb countries. That's a stark contrast. It is very important that this has nothing to do with discrimination. Many of these women are not on the labour market, they are not even registered or even looking for work. It cannot therefore be concluded that there is discrimination, since only 30% of immigrant women are employed compared with 70%. No! This also has to do with a living cultural pattern, and that is also the conclusion of socio-economic monitoring. That is why I want to be very careful with figures, especially with regard to the employment rate of women. With Belgian women, we have had a whole emancipation process. A large majority of immigrant women, specifically Turkish women and women from the Maghreb countries, of which only 30% are employed, have not even been notified. We cannot talk about discrimination there if these women are not on the labour market. I would like to make that point or to remind my fellow Members that it is not all about discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u45	Mr Denys, you said that in other countries the practical tests are not used by the government. I just got a report. We started the discussion a long time ago, because these tests were applied in the Netherlands, including in the housing sector. There are reports, such as Proving discrimination cases, the role of situation testing. Many European countries, including the United Kingdom, Slovakia, the Netherlands and France, Finland, Denmark and the Czech Republic, use these practical tests. Meanwhile, new countries have probably joined. In fact, I would like to take a look at the distribution of roles between the government and the sector, because I will not read 93 pages now. I repeat my plea for a conclusion, in addition to prevention and mediation, and in that end the government has a role to play, without prejudice to the fact that employers must be fully involved in dealing with the problem, because we must focus our efforts on the Social Inspectorate. We can tackle the cases of discrimination well, but the sector must certainly have a role to play. That is the direction we must take. I also maintain the principle that the public authorities should set a good example and that the private sector should follow. In this respect, I really want the social partners and the trade unions to be here today calling for diversity to be addressed. Madam, you also give a number of examples, including collective agreement No. 38, that's good. Take initiatives yourself, however. You can also include a diversity chapter in the IPA. What will the trade unions and employers themselves do without the government interfering? We will support the initiatives, but you have to get your own hands on the team. We are talking about discrimination today, but in the case of enlargement we are also talking about how we can ensure that all talents are used and that no talent is thrown overboard, because we need them. These immigrants are here and remain here, some have been here for four or five generations, and we must not throw away that potential. I myself am a representative of De Beweging, I also appeal to the trade unions to take responsibility, because we do not come there with calls and sensitisers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u46	Cao No. 38 has indeed not been declared binding. We have had this discussion here in connection with my legislative proposal on the obligation to reply to applicants. The Minister has also said that he will return the question to you. I therefore hope that we can count on your support. We can indeed continue to discuss figures. Mrs Demir and others, nobody says that discrimination is only a matter of one thing, but if we are discussing older people who are discriminated against, we will never get the story of immigrants and the disabled. However, every time we have the debate on discrimination against ethnic background, we often get the first answer that it has to do not only with that, but also with education and language. That is true, but that does not alter the fact that we must have the debate on that part. I have heard Mr Denys ask whether it is not our objective to get more immigrants to work. Of course, but the story of discrimination is not so much about getting more immigrants to work. For me, it's about ensuring that everyone has equal opportunities in the labour market. If there is discrimination, there are no equal opportunities. As you said, Mrs Demir, someone who does not sign up or is not available for the labour market cannot be led to the labour market either. That is not the objective either. The objective of discrimination for me is to ensure that everyone is given equal opportunities and that one is not excluded for one reason or another. It is true that discrimination has several aspects to do with it, but today we are discussing it on the basis of that point. No one denies that there are other problems, but when it comes to older people's employment, we are having this debate and we are simply quoting the items and themes that go with it. I would like to add that in addition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u47	Mrs Kitir, I have not said at any time that the problem of discrimination is not very important. Why did I bring it in? Because Mr De Witte immediately said in his exposé that there is a big difference in employment between immigrants and Belgians: "That is discrimination." I wanted to sue that one-sided image, no more and no less. I fully agree with you. Even if anti-discrimination policies do not lead to more employment, an anti-discrimination policy is still needed, for moral reasons alone. That's what I wanted to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u48	Mr President, I would like to respond to Mrs Demir's question on the participation of women. Of course there are cultural problems, but time will play itself. One sometimes has problems with the first generation, but the younger women who go to school here quickly understand their chances and score better than their brothers. That is a first point. What can be done in policy terms? I am talking here about Brussels, but probably there is more or less the same problem in Antwerp and in other cities. In some neighbourhoods in Brussels there are too few crèches and even too few primary schools. Parents can't even take place for their children in kindergarten classes. That's the problem. Even if there are women whose culture evolves and who seek work, there are problems. Fortunately, Actiris has been developing a very cool project in Brussels for years, especially a specific crèche. There's three now. Thus a service is provided for parents who are unemployed or who find a job for a short period of time. There's not enough room in the schools. There are too few projects from the two primary schools. This is the responsibility of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u49	Mr President, at the end of my speech, I expressed my concern at the situation of immigrant women. Having a job means self-reliance and strengthening women. Who are we talking about here? Indeed, it is not so much about the second generation. Often it is about women who come here as a bride and therefore do not report to the labour market. I think it is a battle point and our task to sensitise those women, despite the traditional role patterns in those cultures. In the past, it was a progressive position to call on women to participate massively in the labour market. When I talk about it now, it is apparently a taboo and we simply wipe it under the mat, while the figures are dramatic; only 30% of these women are employed. That is a problem for our labour market. I hope that the progressive forces in our country will join me in fighting that battle.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u50	With these wise words and calls, we can conclude today's sitting. I would, of course, like to thank the esteemed panel members. Ladies and gentlemen, we still have a few practical agreements to make. Next week there will be a discussion of the draft law on public sector pensions. That's scheduled for Wednesday morning. In the afternoon, questions will be asked to the Minister of Pensions. I will not be able to attend because I have a duty abroad. A question session is already scheduled with Minister Peeters on Tuesday 17 March. I would suggest that in the agenda he should be able to respond to the debate we have had today so that the debate can move forward. I propose that the exchange of views between the Minister and the members of the committee be placed before the questions in the afternoon. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u51	Yes, a meeting is already scheduled with the Minister on 17 March in the afternoon. He can't be here in the morning. First there will be an exchange of views and the Minister's position on what he has heard. After all, different theories have been formulated here. The man in the inspection service was clear, but Mr De Witte said something else. I've listened very carefully. It's all not that clear. It's time for them to talk to each other. There is still some substance, such as Mr Denys' cooperation agreement, figures and alternative. We look forward to hearing what the Minister will say about this. Maybe he can light a tip of the veil regarding the blueprint that is in preparation according to the inspection service. That will allow us to try to make a first start on a resolution with the various groups after that meeting. After all, we will not stop at the umpteenth hearing on this problem in Parliament's history. We are going to try to find a majority, hopefully as broad as possible, to propose a solution to the government by means of a resolution. There is also the secretary's proposal to schedule a question session with Secretary of State Sleurs on Wednesday 18 March. That's not final.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u52	Mr President, I agree with your approach, but I wonder what we will do with the legislative proposals and resolutions on this issue. Are they discussed in the week after that? I don't want to overload the agenda, but we have to look at them anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u53	A number of legislative proposals have been sent to the National Labour Council. You've received three. That was discussed at the Bureau today, asking for urgent action. A period of two months was foreseen. For a number of legislative proposals, we are waiting for the Minister's figures on the eligibility allowance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u54	I know it was agreed. However, I am talking about the legislative proposals or resolutions which are specifically concerned with this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u55	We shall first have the debate with the Minister. I propose that we put the legislative proposals on the agenda shortly afterwards and then we can check whether we are working with a resolution and with which parties. It is a good proposal that we bring them together. My point was indeed about the other legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u56	Mr President, it is useful to agree practical arrangements in order not to confuse them all. So the Minister of Work is coming. Is it not useful to invite Mrs Sleurs and Mr Tommelein too? He is largely responsible for the inspection services, and Mrs Sleurs is responsible for anti-discrimination. In order to achieve a coherent whole, we can look at who is doing this and who is responsible for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u57	I asked that question to the man responsible for the inspection, who is supposed to know who is responsible for it. He said it was Mr Peeters. I would ask the committee secretary to check whether there is also a shared competence with Mrs Sleurs. I would not be surprised if she was somehow involved through equal opportunities. I do not see Mr Tommelein's competence in this matter immediately. He is responsible for social fraud and for inspection services related to that fraud. We'll look into this. If so, we could ask Mrs Sleurs to be here on Tuesday, together with the Minister, to explain the government's position.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u58	Mr De Witte said that Mrs Sleurs is implementing a number of measures. So it could be useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u59	Mr President, if we want to work on measures to combat discrimination in the labour market, we must invite the Minister responsible, Mr Peeters. If we also want to have a wider debate on the approximation of anti-discrimination legislation, we can also invite the relevant State Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-04-54-commissie-ic106x.u60	I believe that there is a shared competence with Mrs Sleurs on discrimination in the labour market. We'll look into this. I think she has a direct competence in this matter, but I am not sure. We'll figure this out. If it is, it is. Otherwise, we're just gonna invite Mr. Peeters, okay? In any case, I would like to thank you for your presence and for all your questions, my fellow Members. I found this a very useful and interesting exercise. I've learned a lot. There were some contradictions here and there. We felt that. But I hope we can get to work on it now. The report will be ready tomorrow. There's been plenty of reports from Roman times to now. Now it's time for action. We'll do it together. Thank you.
