ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic047x.u1	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, a first step in the recognition of close caregivers was taken with the adoption of the law of 12 May 2014 on the recognition of close caregiver, supporting a person in a situation of great dependence, regardless of his age. This law defines the caregiver as "the person who provides continuous or regular assistance and support to the aided person". The latter is recognized as being in a situation of great dependence. The Act also sets out the conditions that must be met in order to be recognized as a close caregiver. This is obviously a major issue. I believe that we do not measure the number of people involved, those caring, but also those assisted, in situations of disability or illness, and I think especially among seniors. It therefore seems more than necessary to pursue the recognition of close caregivers by introducing a specific thematic leave equivalent to the pension; determining their access to social rights in health care, allowances and unemployment; and improving the consideration of the burden of dependency at the tax level. In relation to this, I have reintroduced a series of texts which I had tabled under the previous legislature, allowing us to move forward and, above all, to propose concrete answers. Recognition is one thing, it is very good, but we must be able to give substance to this recognition in order to bring concrete solutions to the difficulties of the helpers and the helpers. However, at the level of government, under this new legislature, decisions go exactly the opposite. The abolition of the leave without special theme and the division by two, and even by four in the event of cohabitation, of the income guarantee allowance, obviously have a major negative impact on the situation of close caregivers. During the discussion about your general policy note on persons with disabilities, you were questioned by a colleague and replied that the government was going to focus on continuing the recognition of close caregivers. Madam Secretary of State, what exactly is the situation? A few months have passed. I imagine that with your firm and the administrations concerned, you have at least been able to make progress in this area, as it is not a new issue but the continuation of an existing one. How do you intend to realize this recognition of close caregivers with everyday solutions? What's your calendar? Have you taken or intend to make contact with your competent colleagues in the ministers for the various aspects of this recognition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic047x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, the importance of close caregivers should not be underestimated. These people invest free of charge for others. A legal framework has already been created for the recognition of close caregivers, but this issue remains a matter for the Federal Minister for Social Affairs. So it's not my responsibility. In discussions on the guidance notes, I pointed out that community care needs to be supported and that I will take initiatives in this area. This intervention must therefore be understood that, as Secretary of State for Combating Poverty, Equal Opportunities and Persons with Disabilities, I will support any initiative of the competent minister to improve the situation of close caregivers. It's Mrs De Block's jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic047x.u3	Madam Secretary of State, what is the use of having a Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities? If your answer is limited to saying that it is not your competence but that it is those of others, for sure, things will not progress! I believe that your responsibility is to take charge of this matter and bring together the various competent people – and it is not just the Minister of Social Affairs. Your role is to be able to make concrete progress on this issue and not to wait for others to decide one day. Your responsibility, especially in relation to people with disabilities, is indeed to be the pilot, to push each minister into his own skills so that progress can be made. If you just have the title, but you don't have the skills, we won't win anything! I would therefore like to insist with you. Some of the decisions of the government of which you are a member are in exactly the opposite direction to the situation of close caregivers. This is the case with regard to the income guarantee allowance and the elimination of leave without reason, since many close caregivers used non-thematic time credits to help disabled or dependent people. You simply endorse negative decisions for close caregivers made by the government and expect others to move. Madam Secretary of State, I can only encourage you to move forward on this issue rather than to have a passive attitude which, in the end, will bring no convincing result to the situation of the many pocket carers. Since we are talking about a lot of money when it comes to time credits or income guarantee allowances, I would like to encourage you to carefully analyse the savings to the state of the caregivers close to them because of their significant investment. That is why it is still interesting to support them or even to extend their numbers to dependent people rather than to adopt the current attitude of penalizing them, so to disgust all those who would like to invest and help their loved ones. I admit I took advantage of the time we had.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic047x.u4	Indeed, we are starting well this new year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic047x.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I note that the other Members have asked either to postpone their questions or to convert them into written questions. As there are no further speakers, I propose that the sitting be closed.
