ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u1	Minister, it has been a long time since you appeared in this committee, and I would like to welcome you. As you know, we were dealing with Energy, an urgent item that took us a long time. We have a series of questions. Mrs. Lalieux is here, she's going to be able to start hostilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u2	Mr President, Minister, my question was tabled on 12 March. Some elements have been added since then. The press reports that banks will have to pay a further €70 million in 2014 and €100 million in 2015. You know that we support these contributions, just back from the rescue of the financial institutions that, I remind you, played at the casino with the money of the Belgian savers. Only, it would not be acceptable for it to be once again the customers who pay the bill. This fear is relayed by Trends, who is not a left-wing weekly: "Banks will not fail to postpone these costs to customers". This fear is reinforced, Minister, by the fact that the former Governor of the National Bank pleads for an increase in bank rates. Minister, you have the tools to act. Do you intend to update the gentlemen's agreement which provides for a number of free transactions? It is indeed time to see it up again. Will you enter the Price Observatory to analyse the evolution of rates for banking services? Besides, I'm asking you to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u3	Mrs Lalieux, I can give you an explanation of the gentlemen's agreement concluded in 2004. I have instructed the Price Observatory to monitor closely the price developments of certain banking services. I sent a request to clarify the issue you raised. This gentlemen's agreement provides that customers can carry out 24 free transactions. I am convinced that we need to look at this issue in order to be clear and well informed. I asked the Price Observatory to carry out a survey in order to obtain information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u4	Minister, do you have a timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u5	This should be done fairly quickly. The results should be reflected in the Centre's quarterly reports. It's scheduled for September.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u6	Is it my question that prompted you to question the Price Observatory? In any case, you are doing well because you are acting on the questions of parliamentarians. I guess you're not going to go over the gentlemen's agreement until you get the results of the price observatory study.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u7	Exactly. Another problem arises. There is a PSD (Payment Services Directive). This is very important to clarify and determine the possibility of conducting another approach or organizing more free transactions than the current 24. That was your question. That's another part of the file. We will come back to this issue in September and I hope then to have the opportunity to propose very clear and effective actions on the basis of the price observatory report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u8	Minister, thank you. I won't hesitate to come back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u9	Mr President, Minister, on 17 March 2015, the Constitutional Court gave an answer to a preliminary question asked by the Police Court of Liège. According to that Court, where liability cannot be established in an accident involving at least two persons, insurers must compensate both physical and material damage. Otherwise, they violate the constitutional principle of equality and non-discrimination. So far, insurance only compensated for personal damage and property damage (vehicles) was borne by the owners, except in the case of omnium insurance. Mr. Minister, according to your services and information, is this decision likely to significantly increase the disbursements of insurance companies, as lawyers and the Belgian Common Guarantee Fund say? If so, care should be taken to ensure that premiums are not increased unwarrantedly. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that they are already constantly increasing. Do you have any statistics on the number of accidents in which liability cannot be determined? Indeed, the insurances shout at the incitement to fraud. In their view, this decision would encourage accident victims to ensure that they were unable to determine responsibilities so that everyone could benefit from both material and physical compensation. Some lawyers argue for a legislative amendment to limit the scope of the article in question. Do you intend to take an initiative in this area? However, what matters above all is to ensure that insurers only increase their premiums in a justified manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately I have no statistics on the number of accidents for which it has not been possible to determine responsibilities. However, in accordance with my policy note, I have the ambition to amend the law of 21 November 1989 on compulsory insurance of liability for motor vehicles. I hope that discussions can be held on the amendment of that law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u11	Minister, thank you. It is true that this is included in your policy note. So, like you, I hope that in addition to the bill, there will be a real debate. Bills have been on the table for ten years. Car insurance is a compulsory insurance, used by many people, and is the subject of many difficulties. Good if you bring a bill, but I hope you will also let Parliament audition, work and discuss this important issue with you. I am surprised that insurance does not even have figures. They shout at fraud, they scream at danger via the press, while they have no figures to provide. This is a particular way of communicating and acting. I hope that we will have a real debate and that the bill will not be drafted by insurance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u12	Question No 3179 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin and question No 3407 by Mrs Len Dierick are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u13	Mr President, Minister, an investigation published in Le Soir on March 28 shows that in Belgium, BNP Paribas Fortis bank abused its customers regarding the sale of assets related to Greece. Indeed, since mid-November 2009, Greece has officially entered into recession and concerns about the country's insolvency have been confirmed. On 26 November, the Athens stock exchange reeled by more than 6%, while the interest rate differential between Greek and German government bonds increased to 200 points. The Greek crisis is on its way. In Belgium, Fortis, bought a few months earlier by BNP Paribas Fortis, continues to sell Greek bonds to its Belgian customers, as if they were robust German bunds. Thus, on 28 November 2009, the Lambda customer who was connecting to PC Banking could discover, under the bank's "preference bonds" tab, nine proposals that BNP Paribas Fortis considered to be "preferential risk class 1 bonds", thus low-risk investments. And we found Greece there! The bank even displayed the sumptuous rating that this obligation still enjoys: A1/A-. The bank cannot ignore that a risk 1 is exceptional. Minister, in the situation in Greece in November 2009, can not the display of such a level of risk be regarded as deceit? According to the investigation, inside the bank itself, warnings were issued without the bank reacting! It was not until December that the offer was withdrawn from the sale, so more than a month and a half later. The savers who trusted BNP Paribas Fortis were at their expense. In March 2012, the obligation was the subject of an exchange offer which they could not, in practice, refuse: their title was transformed into a basket of 24 bonds, amounting to 310 euros per 1000 euros of the old bond. There is still a good loss, even if we know that the bonds involve risks. Normally, the bank must inform its customers of these risks. Can we consider this to be a simple error of judgment by BNP Paribas Fortis or rather a willingness towards and against everything to release itself at all costs of bonds that have become bulky, even at the cost of a deception of the saver? Minister, have you been aware of this investigation? What would happen today, in the same situation? Would FSMA sufficiently play its role of protecting consumers of financial products? Doubts are allowed as orders on the transparency of financial products are still due to enter into force in June 2015. What is the status of these orders? Are they in force? If so, can we get a copy? The necessary ambition to ban certain products and to put investment banks in the face of their responsibilities is indispensable, and not yet enough!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u14	Mr President, Mrs Lalieux, with regard to the specific case to which you refer, I can state that an analysis is currently being conducted by the FSMA. At this stage, it is not possible to draw any conclusions. As the supervisory authority, FSMA's mission is to ensure that consumers of financial products are treated in a fair and correct manner. In this context, FSMA uses all the competences it has been given in order to protect consumers. However, I must draw your attention to the fact that the public offer of Greek debt securities is not subject to the law of 16 June 2006 on public offers of investment instruments and admissions of investment instruments to trading on regulated markets. This provision is the faithful transposition of the European Prospectus Directive. Furthermore, I recall that the Royal Decree of 25 April 2014, which imposes certain information obligations when marketing financial products to retail customers, will enter into force on 12 June 2014. However, the exclusion measures of the PRIPs (Packaged Retail Investment Products) regulation are still under discussion and the templates of the fact sheets are therefore not yet available. At my request, FSMA has therefore organised a consultation on an amendment to this Royal Decree of 25 April 2014 aimed at aligning itself with the EU rules that are still to come. At the end of the debate, I will draw my conclusions as to the framework for the issuance of public debt securities by countries that are weaker in terms of solvency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u15	Minister, thank you for your answers. In this regard, transparent information is crucial. It is important to inform about the risk and profile the person who wants to buy these types of bonds. This is the responsibility of the banks and it seems that they do not care. I hope that, thanks to the law we passed in 2014 and the mystery shopping, we will be able to denounce banks that do not respect the investor's profile. In view of the model sheets available and the consultations, it is time to take action. The crisis dates back to 2008. Savers have lost a lot of money. This has caused trauma among the population and increased the debt by 20 per cent. We're in a situation where we all have to tighten our belts. However, we do not have the impression that the will of the banks is to evolve and clarify this matter. I believe that we must tighten the screw and continue to tighten it in relation to the banking and financial institutions that are dragging their feet and will play again as before, because as soon as we leave the ballast, the banks find their account there. So, Minister, I ask you to act very quickly with regard to the royal orders.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u16	I understand that very well, Mrs. Lalieux!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u17	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 3662 question has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u18	Mr Minister, SABAM Copyright Association has announced that any person or organisation who embeds or embeds a YouTube video on their own site will have to pay a fee. You responded quickly to this, put the measure on hold and called for consultation, which I think is a good thing. I will therefore update my question, because it had already been tabled. What's the status? SABAM already receives a direct fee from YouTube for every music video that is played. Should they get it twice? I don't think so. There are also judgments of the European Court of Justice. I refer to the Bestwater and Svensson judgments, which state that embeds is not a problem when it comes to content that is already freely available on the bronze site, which is usually the case with YouTube. In the Netherlands, the Brein Foundation collected this until last year, but it stopped doing so because of European case law. SABAM seems to be of a different opinion, hence my questions. What's the status today? What did your meeting result in? What is the position of the FOD's control department in this regard? What other matters can the FOD do today to prevent a further escalation in the file? I would also like to refer to the sector, which has reached out to SABAM in order to establish a dialogue on embedded video cameras. Are you taking part in this consultation with the sector? Do you have any idea what happened in the sector? To what extent can you support that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u19	Mr President, when questions drag on a little longer, because no answer can yet be given because of very important debates on energy, they resolve themselves somewhat. After all, we take the questions that are being asked to heart, so we are trying to find solutions. The current question is one of them. Nevertheless, I would like to retake everything and update it on the basis of your supplementary question. For several years, SABAM has been applying an on-demand streaming rate, allowing it to address users who place embedded links on their website or blog to video footage and protected content that are publicly accessible on the social network platforms, such as YouTube. You were right to note that. I've been consulting with SABAM on the file. Following the dossier, it was agreed to include a period of reflection, which the press has already achieved. During that period, SABAM will no longer ask users to obtain prior consent for the embedded linking of such videos on their blog or website. During that reflection period, SABAM will also consult with stakeholders, such as bloggers. After the reflection period, we will be together again. We are following the file very closely. I will come back to that in a moment. The Audit Service Management Companies of the FPS Economy has the possibility to initiate a warning procedure if the service considers that SABAM's tariff no longer has a legal basis. One of the possible sanctions that may be imposed under that procedure is an action for strike before the President of the Court of First Instance in Brussels. SABAM may be requested to discontinue this rate. In view of the fact that SABAM will for the time being no longer appeal to bloggers who offer an embedded link and thus do not upload directly protected works, there is currently no need to initiate a warning procedure. The audit authority will continue to examine the rate on its legal basis. Mr Dedecker, we are following this dossier very closely. In the meantime, some time has passed and I expect you to be positive about the first consultation in which matters were discussed. Next week there will be a new consultation of my cabinet with SABAM on this issue. You may then be able to ask a new question or we can give you information about the outcome of that consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u20	Mr Minister, as I said, the inclusion of this reflection period is certainly a good thing. It is also important to keep that warning procedure of the FOD as a stick behind the door. Today, that is not really appropriate. There will be consultations next week, and if that does not lead to fruitful results, I think you should be able to use that stick behind the door. I wonder what's gonna get out of the bus next week. I will, as you yourself suggest, immediately submit a new question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u21	Question No 3850 by Mr David Clarinval is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u22	Mr President, Mr Minister, unfortunately my question is from March. I know that, since then, some information has already been published in the press, but I wanted to keep it because I would like to get answers to some questions. Since 1 September 2014, consumers who claim to be injured by a company may in principle appeal to a representative who may bring a collective action on behalf of the group on the basis of the Collective Reparation Act. For example, tariff increases considered illegal, non-compliance with legal bank transfer deadlines, restrictive competition practices, refusal to apply a legal guarantee, unilateral changes to sales conditions or any violation of European or Belgian consumer rules may be prosecuted by a group of consumers through an organisation approved by the Ministry of Economy or serving on the Consumer Council, the best known of which is Test-Achats. This class of action aims, in particular, to prevent every consumer who considers himself injured and who wishes to obtain redress from filing a complaint in his own name, which would lead to an increase in the number of cases and parties to the case. It also intends to limit the costs of justice and procedure and should also reduce the burden on the courts. Minister, in your policy note, it is stated that an implementing order still has to be drawn up to determine the rules for calculating the remuneration of the liquidator responsible for enforcing a certified agreement or a decision of the judge. What is the status of this text? In the absence of this order, can class actions be instituted? If so, could you tell me how many class action actions have been introduced since the Act came into force? What are these remedies for? Have you encountered any difficulties in the application and interpretation of this law? Have you planned an evaluation of this device? If so, what is the agenda? Finally, you have also spoken recently about the creation of a centralized mediation service that brings together the eight services. Will this centralized mediation play a role in the collective redress mechanism?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Winckel. Members are, of course, free to update their questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u24	Mr Minister, Mr Winckel has already given a detailed account of the action for collective recovery. The N-VA has always been in favour of the principle, but we would like to extend the application of the law. In the meantime, an evaluation is planned, as agreed in the coalition agreement. However, before we can proceed with an evaluation, the law must work first, and that does not really appear to be the case today. We note that if, after such a procedure has been completed by the court, a company is ordered to repair the damage, the individual harm sufferer cannot automatically have compensation for the damage. The law entrusts the distribution of damages to a claims settlement agent, who must be appointed by the court. That person shall be elected from a list of potential candidates, which shall be kept by the court. The law has been in force since 1 September 2014, but no collective recovery procedure has been introduced until the time of the submission of my question. The main reason for this lies in the practical framework of the law, more specifically the lack of a list of claims settlement agents. I'll come to my questions. Firstly, what is the state of play regarding the practical framework of the law? Secondly, what steps have you already taken to draw up a list of claims settlement agents? When can we expect that list? Thirdly, what measures do you intend to take to make full use of the possibilities offered by the law?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the first point, only one implementing order must be taken. There is still one implementing act to be adopted. That Royal Decree will lay down the rules for the calculation of the compensation of the claims settlement agent. I want to submit the draft royal decree to the opinion of the Council of State before the parliamentary holidays. I would like to refer the implementing decision to the Council of State before the parliamentary recess. The fact that the decision has not yet been taken does not prevent the action for collective recovery. The fact that this order has not yet been adopted does not in any way preclude the introduction of actions for collective reparation. So far, no action has been brought before the court. Some organisations have announced this publicly. As far as the second question is concerned, the list of claims is not drawn up by me but by the competent court. It is up to consumer organisations and, possibly, consumer mediation services to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the law when they deem it appropriate. It is up to consumer organisations and the Consumer Ombudsman to make use of the possibilities offered by the law and to judge in full independence whether it is appropriate to make use of them. In my view, the possibilities are sufficiently well known to the organisations and do not impose any additional measures for publication. The last question relates to an evaluation. During the adoption of the dossier by the Council of Ministers of 5 July 2013, it was indeed decided to carry out a review of its application three years after the entry into force of the Act. That is also very clear in the coalition agreement, and I will make that evaluation. Three years after 2013 the evaluation report will be available at the end of 2016 or early 2017. That is what we will be able to discuss in committee. If necessary, some adjustments will be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u26	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. I will allow myself to return to ask you about this in 2016-17.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u27	Minister, it was quite a complete answer. We look forward, with some patience of course, to the evaluation. The possibilities are known to the organisations that can make progress towards collective recovery today, but our criticism has always been that the list of possible organisations is quite limited. We need enlargement, of course, after an evaluation. From your previous life, you will remember that many small self-employed people together can also be the victims of a particular problem. They could therefore benefit from an action for collective recovery, examples of which are sufficient. I hope that you will also take the comment to heart afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u28	Definitely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u29	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Mrs Lalieux for reversing the order of questions so that I will be on time for my own committee. I'll be brief and concise. It concerns the Royal Decree of 12 January 2007 which created a regulatory framework for real estate broker mediation agreements, the so-called KB on real estate contracts. Because that name is too long, we often talk about the KB Freya, to Freya Van den Bossche. With the KB, the then government responded to the growing criticism of the abuses in real estate contracts. The fact that the Royal Decree provides more legal protection for the consumer is a fact that no one disputes. However, there are a number of gaps in the KB. For example, it is highly unclear to me what the added value of a mandatory handwritten address is. More fundamental criticism is about matters that divide the doctrine of justice. For example, there is uncertainty as to whether or not a commission is due if the mediation does not lead to a purchase agreement or leads to an agreement under unbinding or suspensive conditions. The exclusivity clause also creates confusion. The sector itself wants to address legal uncertainty and has therefore, through the Confederation of Immobiliers of Belgium, asked for the gaps to be resolved. The CIB also asks to broaden the scope of the ratione personae of the KB. At present not all professionals who can also be entrusted with the sale or rental of a property are covered by the Royal Decree. That creates unfair competition. Mr Minister, first of all, were you aware of the CIB Flanders' request to carry out an update of the KB Freya? Secondly, are you prepared to evaluate and update the RB? Thirdly, can you answer the question of organising a level playing field and thus broadening the scope of the RB? Fourthly, do you believe that the obligation to mention an address handwritten is still of this time?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u30	Mr President, I will be very brief, but hopefully very clear in relation to the KB Freya of 12 January 2007. First, the services of the FPS Economy have confirmed to me that because of the CIB they received a request to update the Royal Decree of 12 January 2007. We are therefore aware of this. Secondly, and more importantly, I am prepared to have an evaluation carried out and update the decision in the light of the new provision of book VI of the Code of Economic Law. I have instructed the FPS Economy to provide me with a detailed analysis so that I can make a decision as soon as possible about any adjustments. I come to my answer to your third and fourth questions. The question about the level playing field will be answered and it will be clear whether a handwritten entry is useful nowadays. You are right to ask for this and it will be investigated whether it is still relevant to ask for a handwritten entry.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your brief but sufficiently clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u32	The KB is named after a celebrity's first name, that's nice, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u33	Mr. Chair, Minister, the Partyka-Lalieux Enforcement Order was scheduled to come into force on January 1, 2015. It must include a standardized medical questionnaire. However, it has not yet been finalized. There are cases in which people are unable to take out any remaining balance insurance due because of a disproportionate surcharge (up to €2,500 per year) because they have been sick in the past. This is unacceptable! We've already discussed it. Moreover, in cases of total remission, it is very shocking and I can only see the chill of banking institutions. The Partika-Lalieux Act does not, in principle, allow such surcharges. In addition, clients still respond to questionnaires prepared by the banks themselves, which are highly intrusive to privacy, as the standard questionnaire is not yet written. Minister, my questions are simple. What about the questionnaire? Has it been finalized? Could you remind us who is in charge of establishing it? Are there any guarantees that it is consistent with the law and the spirit of the law that we have passed - which is more complicated - and with respect for privacy? Do you confirm tensions between consumer and insurer representatives? How many cases have they already been submitted to the Bureau of Fees? Are there any acceptable premium proposals to resolve these cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u34	Mr President, Mrs Lalieux, first of all, I must point out that your law actually came into force on January 1, 2015. The legislator has given the King the opportunity to fix the content of a standardized medical questionnaire. At its meeting on 16 April, the Tariff Monitoring Bureau adopted a standardized questionnaire. According to my information, he obtained the opinion of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy on this text. Insurers may use other questionnaires provided that their formulation is approved by the Pricing Monitoring Office. With one exception, all questionnaires were processed. Between 1 January and 27 May 187 applications were submitted, 80 of which are currently closed. It is not surprising that the views of consumer representatives and insurers diverge. It is important to stress that the rules of procedure stipulate that decisions of the Fees Monitoring Bureau are in principle taken by consensus. I am not aware of the content of the decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u35	Minister, thank you. You know how important it is for people with chronic disease or cancer, for example, to have access to a property. This is important for their future and the future of their families and children. As I understand it, a standardized questionnaire has been validated by the Bureau as a whole. But I did not understand why insurers can still prepare their own questionnaire. I don't think that was really planned. But I didn't understand, it seems a little complicated to me. I'll come back to you or send me an e-mail explanation. There are 80 closed cases. In order to judge the effectiveness of the law and the usefulness of a possible amendment, it would be interesting to know how those 80 cases had ended. It's not betraying professional secrecy. To say that 80 cases were closed while 80 were rejected, this raises questions. I'll come back to ask you about specific answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u36	Mr President, Mrs Lalieux is obviously very familiar with the Partyka Act. Maybe there's a misunderstanding between us. Insurers may ask further questions as long as their wording is approved by the Pricing Monitoring Office. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u37	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u38	Mr Minister, you will see that we have close control over banking institutions! The FSMA monitors the standardised information sheets that credit institutions must make available to consumers when marketing regulated savings accounts. Any other advertising relating to these savings accounts must also be subject to the approval of the FSMA prior to its release. Failure to comply with this obligation may result in sanctions. Minister, can you inform me about the controls carried out by the FSMA regarding compliance with the legislation and, in particular, compliance with the explicit agreement of the saver? If so, how many sanctions have been imposed and in what terms? In the event that no checks have been carried out, can you explain the reasons for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u39	Mr President, Mrs Lalieux, during 2014, 135 regulated savings accounts were marketed in Belgium by 36 credit institutions. During this period, FSMA processed 196 requests from credit institutions for the approval of key information for the saver, as well as 217 advertisements and websites promoting regulated savings accounts. FSMA ensures that any material released during marketing invites the saver to consult the key information document. As such, websites must make the document available to savers before opening the regulated savings account. As part of its monitoring, the FSMA initiated two investigations into facts that could constitute a violation of the provisions of the Royal Decree of 18 June 2013. This led to transactional settlements with the credit institutions concerned. In accordance with FSMA's policy, these transactional regulations are nominative and published on its website. They include findings of the facts and legal qualifications. The choice of settlement in the cases referred to shall be based on the nature of the facts and the procedural economy which the Regulation permits while being nominal and relating to comparable amounts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u40	Minister, thank you for your full answer. I believe that there is still a lot of work to be done on savings accounts and on the transparency and comparability of what banks offer – which is not much. The readability of these accounts still raises many questions, although it must be recognized that work has already been done under the previous legislature. Minister, either you bring us bills or you tell us that we can work on bills because we are voluntary!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u41	The message is clear!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u42	Mr President, there is a worrying increase in the number of defaulting mortgages: almost 6% increase, or 32,984 defaulting mortgages. The amount of these defaulting loans also shows a marked increase in one year: +12.4%, i.e. EUR 1.267 billion. Consumers who are no longer able to repay their mortgage credit have a backlog of 48,723 euros, while in 2008 it amounted to only 25,629 euros, an increase of 90%. As a result, the situation is becoming increasingly complicated for those with mortgage credit. Minister, I wonder about the consequences of these failures for the consumer. Could you inform us about the number of consumers who are ultimately obliged to sell their property? Can you also inform us about the number of seizures and thus forced sales that took place as a result of these failures? I think it's important. You know we need to work on this mortgage bill again, you know there are bills on the table. When we have finished the energy debate, I really expect us to work on all these consumer issues. There are a lot of them that are pending and that are of interest to all citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u43	Mr President, Mrs Lalieux, I do not know what source you have based yourself on or what period your figures refer to.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u44	The figures, since they are also accurate, come from the SPF Economy or Test-Achats. I didn't make them up, all the more so since the commas, it's not my fort. I can provide you with the source. This question was tabled a long time ago. Do you have any other figures?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u45	The National Bank of Belgium regularly publishes statistics on credit defaults by type of credit on its website. According to the latest statistics published at the end of April 2015, the number of people with mortgage credit at least one defaulting contract is estimated to have increased by 5.9% compared to last year, while the number of contracts has only increased by 1.8%. A total of 34,803 persons would be affected. I am unable to confirm to you the exact number of consumers who are ultimately obliged to sell their property and how many seizures have resulted in a forced sale following a mortgage default. Based on the estimates we received from Febelfin, between 500 and 1,000 debtors would be impacted by forced sales. But I am going to check the figures because the number of people in this situation is not clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u46	An increase of 5.9% or 6% suggests that the figures have to come more or less from the same source, minister. But it is important to look again at this mortgage law, even if there is a European directive, because there is clearly a problem in this area. I asked you for the figures earlier with regard to the Bureau of Fees, etc. In order to work properly and to enable legislators to respond effectively to problems, it is important to have data. Indeed, Febelfin, Assuralia, etc. should be able to collect all this information from banking institutions. They are important to enable us to legislate in this area. They are also important for knowing the number of people who have been on the street because their property has been seized or forcibly resold. This demonstrates the need to work on the issue and that there is a protection issue with respect to the accessibility of mortgages.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u47	Mr President, I would ask you to postpone my other questions, because I have to leave you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u48	Questions Nos 4053, 4370, 4633 and 4634 by Mrs Lalieux were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u49	Mr President, Minister, at the Committee on the Economy on 3 February 2015, I asked you about micro-enterprises. I had insisted on the administrative simplification that needs to be implemented properly in order to lighten these small entities. This simplification should, in my view, make it possible to record a minimum of results. On that occasion, I asked you several questions about the criteria to be met by micro-enterprises, the conditions to be met in order to benefit from this reduction, the number of enterprises covered by this system, etc. Following my question in committee, you replied that you had asked for the opinion of the Central Economic Council, which brings together representatives of employers and trade unions on the transposition of the directive. In particular, the Central Economic Council must decide whether or not to take over the new category of micro-enterprise in Belgium, on the thresholds to be applied to small companies and on administrative simplification for small companies. This notice was due for you on March 18, 2015, which is why I am coming back to you today. Minister, have you received the opinion of the Central Economic Council? If so, what does it show? Are you now able to answer my initial questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u50	Mr. Chair, dear colleague, a draft bill has been prepared. It will be the subject of an inter-cabinet meeting this week and will be submitted to the government before the parliamentary holidays. This draft takes into account the opinion of the Central Economic Council. As far as your second question is concerned, about 320,000 companies will become micro-enterprises according to the defined criteria. Finally, I share the view of the Central Economic Council, which advocates the maintenance of publication obligations. You know all these things. In any case, I can assure you that I will ensure that the government makes a decision before the parliamentary holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u51	Minister, thank you for your answer. I'm sure you're doing the best you can to get the case moving. When we ask the Central Economic Council for an opinion, it is obviously in order to take this into account and, possibly, to draw up a counter-argument. In any case, I am pleased that this issue can progress. You're talking about 320,000 companies, Minister. It's not nothing. This is a famous change. I consider administrative simplification to be a criterion. Our SMEs really need it, but they don't need it. We will go into detail when you come to introduce your bill, but I believe that the publication of certain figures is essential, if only for us to find out, wherever we are. It is important, on the basis of a balance sheet, to know who is involved in establishing cooperation between SMEs. Thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer and wish you well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u52	Mr President, Minister, as you know, there is a two-year legal guarantee on consumer goods. This guarantee applies to all tangible property. This is the case, for example, when you buy a household appliance or an electronic device. A legal guarantee, provided for by law, as its name indicates, is automatically included in the purchase. It is therefore not possible to derogate from it (except in the case of sales of second-hand goods between a trader and a consumer). However, in recent years, many brands have offered a so-called "extra" guarantee, understand: a commercial guarantee. This phenomenon continues to grow since, according to some sources, 56% of the consumers interviewed have subscribed to a commercial guarantee. According to the European Consumer Centre (ECC), the commercial guarantee is a marketing tool, a sales argument. If it is free of charge in several European countries, this is not the case in Belgium. Indeed, following a survey carried out by the CEC, it is noted that the commercial guarantees are twelve months or two years and that their price can rise to 130 euros! It should also be borne in mind that, at times, the guarantees do not cover the cost of moving the convenience store which is borne by the consumer. A 12-month or two-year commercial guarantee for an additional fee, Minister, is totally inadequate since the free legal guarantee is already two years. It therefore brings nothing more to the consumer, other than additional costs. One can imagine that some unscrupulous professionals use this questionable selling technique and do not inform the consumer of the existence of the legal guarantee, which is more advantageous. Mr Minister, from this point of view, can you give me your position in this respect? Are there any controls in this area? If not, would it not be wise to introduce them in the interests and for the protection of the consumer? If checks are carried out, what have been the results achieved in recent years? What tools are available today to inform the consumer of the existence of the legal guarantee? Are targeted campaigns planned in the short and/or medium term to raise consumer awareness?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u53	Mr President, Mrs Cassart, the legislation on consumer goods guarantees is clear. The legal guarantee covers the period of two years from the delivery of the property. A commercial guarantee, whether paid or free, cannot reduce the rights that the legal guarantee offers the consumer. The commercial guarantee must offer the consumer a surplus over the legal guarantee. Otherwise, it could be considered misleading. This does not mean that the duration of the commercial guarantee must necessarily be longer than that of the legal guarantee. For example, the commercial warranty provides for the automatic replacement of defective property for the entire two-year period or home repair within 48 hours. The Economic Inspectorate conducted a general survey. Control operations took place between 1 October 2014 and 31 March 2015. The report of this investigation has not yet been finalized. The Inspectorate also participated in the European Sweep Day in terms of warranty: 45% of the websites checked had defects with respect to the guarantee. More detailed figures will be included in the general survey report. The SPF Economy website informs consumers about their rights in several ways. There is a teaching brochure, as well as Frequently Asked Questions and standard letters that can be used in the event of a dispute. On request, the FPS Economy services provide written and telephone responses to related questions. No information campaigns are currently planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u54	Minister, thank you for your full answer. The legal guarantee is clear and applicable. As you said, this commercial guarantee must be complementary and bring a surplus. But I'm sure there are abuses. We will await the report that will be prepared following the controls that have been carried out. I am curious to know the results because I think we have to lock, we have to protect the consumer because there is a lack of knowledge in his head. Minister, of course, a didactic brochure is available on the SPF Economy website, but the consumer does not always think about visiting this site. Depending on the information that the report will provide, we must ask ourselves whether a key message cannot be given to the consumer so that he will not be caught by this guarantee which would bring nothing more than the legal guarantee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u55	Mr President, Minister, the European Commission has just authorised the import and marketing of 17 GMOs for human or animal feed and two genetically modified flowers. Eleven of these 19 GMOs are produced by the US multinational Monsanto, the remaining eight come from the US firm Dupont and German groups Bayer and BASF. Officially, Member States have the right to refuse them. In practice, however, a national ban seems to be very difficult to implement. Indeed, it would be difficult to ensure that all consumer products are GMO-free because the current labelling regulations do not require an indication of whether or not they come from animals raised with GMOs. Moreover, bees and wind could not be prevented from spreading GMOs to a healthy field. Beyond this worrying decision, in the face of the necessary precautionary principle which is dear to us in Europe, my group sees a risk of imposing a widespread presence of GMOs in food on a part of the population which is totally opposed to it. Mr Minister, in terms of consumer protection, and given the reluctance of a majority of citizens, will you use the possibility left to the Member States to refuse the import and marketing of these 19 GMOs on Belgian territory, including processed or raised products with these GMOs, even if they come from the intra-European market? As regards consumer information, will you, if necessary, activate strict labelling legislation on the presence of GMOs for products such as milk, eggs or meat? Thirdly, are you going to argue for stronger controls on food traceability for humans and animals? Finally, in the context of the Transatlantic Treaty negotiations (the famous TTIP), what position do you hold on the highly controversial issue of GMOs? In the negotiating mandate, what about it? Do you find that this mandate contains sufficient agri-food safeguards for consumer protection, whether in terms of product composition or origin, but also for the protection of our producers against multinationals such as Monsanto?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u56	Mr President, Mrs Grovonius, ladies and gentlemen, the legislation on GMOs is the responsibility of the FPS Public Health and Food Chain Safety and Environment and not the FPS Economy. Therefore, it is up to my colleague, the Minister of Public Health, to provide an answer as to a possible refusal and labelling. GMO controls are carried out by the Federal Food Chain Safety Agency. Minister Willy Borsus has jurisdiction in this area. As you know, the TTIP negotiations are conducted by the Commission on the basis of a mandate given by the Council. Member States do not negotiate individually. European Commissioner Malmström, well known in Belgium, addressed this Parliament on 12 May 2015. In answer to your question, I would like to quote: "I'm making sure that nothing we negotiate will water down existing European rules. TTIP will not change our European laws on hormone treated beef or GMO的s." And it would be inappropriate to question her intentions, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u57	Minister, I do not hide from you that I am a little disappointed by your answer, which is not one, indeed! I understand that I must turn to other ministers for a series of information. I thought you were the minister who was in charge of consumer protection. And I'm a little disappointed to hear that you don't care more about it in the face of such threats.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u58	Minister, we have heard from the press that you want to have review websites, websites on which consumers can leave an assessment of a product, a service or an experience, analysed by the FPS Economy. The perception is at least that these websites are not neutral and are sent by those who are assessed. In this way, information is withheld from consumers who consult these websites, which may mislead them in their decision to purchase. I would have liked to have received an answer to the following questions pending the outcome of the screening. In the press you say that the FPS Economy can act in the case of Belgian sites or if the company is located in Belgium. Is there also a possibility to protect the Belgian consumer from international review websites that disseminate misleading information? Is the current legislation sufficiently adapted to resolve the problems with these websites or is new legislation necessary? Does this problem also arise in other European countries? How does legislation in other countries protect consumers from these practices? In addition to misleading practices, is there unfair competition in this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u59	European legislation lays down the country of origin principle for information society services. For example, the Economic Inspectorate has no jurisdiction for companies abroad that operate a website that is also accessible and usable in Belgium. The inspection can only take place if the website carries out its economic activities in Belgium. In the event of infringements of the rules of the consumer acquis, our country may request assistance from other EU Member States to act against companies operating on their territory. The Directive 2005/29 on unfair commercial practices is part of the consumer acquis. So we have that possibility. Secondly, book VI of the Code of Economic Law, which, among other things, includes the directive on turnover into Belgian law, generally prohibits unfair commercial practices. False testimonies, posted on a review website, are subject to two specific articles appearing on the blacklist. The editorial content paid by the company which is actually advertising, but which is not clearly identifiable as such to the consumer, is prohibited under Article VI.100, 11°. Companies should not be fraudulently pretending to be consumers; this is prohibited under Article VI.100, 22°. The problem does indeed arise in other Member States. These are information society services which are also cross-border. Within the consumer protection network, the issue of review and comparison websites has already been addressed. There may also be unfair market practices that could harm the interests of companies. The research on review sites that I have asked the Economic Inspectorate will provide insight into this. If we have these results, I hope that we will be able to return to that in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u60	It is indeed not an easy problem. Websites on which things are sold are very regulated and have a clear link between website and transaction, something one often does not have at review websites. If people compare hotels or restaurants and do or do not go there afterwards, one cannot attribute this to such a site with 100% certainty. The control of that is difficult and we still have some work to do to settle it. First of all, this must be done for Belgian websites, for which we must take steps. The problem is that many of these websites come from abroad. They are clearly recognizable by the funny translations generated by Google, which proves that real translators and interpreters still occupy an important place in our society. Certainly at European level, we must ensure that controls are as unambiguous as possible and that consumers are not misled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u61	Mr. Gilkinet is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u62	Minister, as from 12 June 2015, consumers should normally be able to compare all financial products better and assess the risk better. In any case, that was the intention of the previous government with the legislation on the risk label and the information sheet. However, the current government decided to postpone the introduction of the label and the chip for savings and investment products. It does so at a time when savings books are barely producing anything and consumers are seeking refuge in other investment products. Even the Flemish Federation of Investors warns that many consumers have no knowledge and that some of these products are not transparent enough. The government's argument to postpone the introduction of the label is that the so-called PRIIPs Regulation is coming. However, it will only enter into force at the end of 2016 and its focus is wider. Certain products will not be included, so the problem remains that consumers will not be sufficiently informed. Moreover, the Royal Decree also regulates the information sheet for the main non-life insurance companies, the so-called non-life insurance. Minister, what is the FSMA's opinion on this? What happens to the investment products not covered by the PRIIPs Regulation? Will they be governed by the royal decree? Will that enter into force on 12 June 2015 for those specific products, or not? Do you intend to retain the scope of the information sheet of the current Royal Decree for the products for which the label is deferred and not to exclude products from the information sheet? How do you expect to protect the consumer? How do you expect to inform him in uniform? Will you fully allow the banks the freedom to inform individually? Or will you streamline that? After all, we fear that there will be discrepancies. We already have proof that the same product is characterised by two different banks with two different risk labels.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u63	Not seeing Mr. Gilkinet arrive, his question becomes moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u64	Mrs Temmerman, the Royal Decree of 25 April 2014 on certain information obligations in relation to the commercialisation of financial products by non-professional clients, the Transversal Royal Decree, indeed provides for the obligation to draw up an information sheet for certain types of financial products and to include a risk label in the information sheet and in advertising. It is stipulated that the cross-sectional Royal Decree, including the obligation to state a risk label, would enter into force one year after its publication, i.e. on 12 June 2015. According to the King's report, the transitional period of one year is intended to take into account European developments in this area and in particular the PRIIPs Regulation, which will apply from 21 December 2016. However, the implementation of the Regulation requires the adoption of a number of regulatory technical standards, mainly with regard to the content of the information sheets and the methodology for and performance of the risk indicator. The European Supervisory Authorities shall be responsible for the establishment of draft standards. Those standards are currently being drawn up, to be delivered to the European Commission by 31 March 2016. They should have been approved by the European Commission by 30 June 2016. The objective is to build on the European schemes, including those which do not fall within the scope of the PRIIPs Regulation, in order to increase the legibility and comprehensibility of the information sheets for consumers. This will make it possible to optimise the efficiency of consumer protection information sheets. It is important to avoid that, in the relatively short term, both non-professional clients and those commercialising financial products face successive models of information sheets and risk indicators, the performance of which could vary and which could be based on different methodologies. That could lead to confusion. In the meantime, the existing rules of transformation and rules of conduct should provide adequate protection for consumers. Moreover, the provisions of Title 3 of the Transversal Royal Decree on advertising distributed to non-professional customers during the commercialisation of financial products will enter into force on 12 June, which should enable even better information to be provided to non-professional customers. Mrs Temmerman, if there is clarity at European level about the chips, then we can continue to work. You are suggesting that I would wait until all this is completed at European level. You don't want me to do that, and I understand that. From the moment when there is clarity, even if the text has not been finally adopted, we can take further action. In other words, I do not want to wait until the dossier is fully Europeanised in order to take action. However, I hope you will understand that I am waiting for some clarity on how these chips will be put together in order to take further steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I believe that we agree on the principle. We must do so as soon as possible, because it is very important for the consumer. I have just said in my introduction that I have found different own quotes from different banks for the same product, one with a quoting 2 and one with a 6. That's a huge difference. We know which risk derivatives are involved. I don't have to remind you of 2008. Today, the savings book is under pressure, because it is almost a negative interest. Consumers are looking and could be tempted by false or misleading information to invest in high-risk products. I understand from you that you will as soon as possible impose a uniformation of the chips on the banks. You will not wait for the adoption of the PRIIPs agreements and the European directive. On the other hand, you will wait until there is some clarity on the matter. Do you have any idea of the timing? Do you have eyes on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u66	I just mentioned March 31st.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u67	If I understood correctly, this is 2016. That's another year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u68	As soon as possible. I will not wait for the entry into force of the European directive to take initiatives here. I hope you understand that we want to have some insight into what it will eventually become. I will try to settle it earlier than the entry into force, which is being established at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u69	I fear that we will still be gone for a year and a great deal can happen for the consumer in one year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u70	That's right, in a positive and negative sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u71	Questions No 4002 by Mr Richard Miller and No 4037 by Mrs Muriel Gerkens were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u72	Mr President, Mr Minister, in early May you were with the Prime Minister in Japan to strengthen diplomatic and economic contacts with that country. You said that he was an old friend of Belgium and that an old friend, it would be visited from time to time. This visit has been extensively reported in the press. The aim is to attract new Japanese investment to Belgium. Japan is the second largest investor in Belgium, after the United States, outside the European Union, and is Belgium's nineteenth customer and twelfth largest supplier in international trade. Belgium exports a large part of the chemicals and imports mainly machinery and transport equipment from Japan. Japan has about 300 subsidiaries of companies located in our territory, which occupies 30,000 jobs, and almost 80 subsidiaries of Belgian companies are present in Japan. Mr Minister, following the various meetings with political and economic actors on the spot, on what new lines will bilateral trade between our two countries develop over the next few years? Have you discussed the progress of the negotiations on the free trade agreement between the European Union and Japan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u73	Mr President, Minister, during your visit to Japan, together with Prime Minister Michel, you mentioned the free trade agreement currently negotiated between the EU and Japan. The talks on this agreement are at a decisive stage, as Europe and Japan want to conclude the talks by the end of 2015. For Europe, it is important for Japan to remove sufficient non-tariff barriers to trade which make access to the country more difficult for European companies. According to your estimate, this free trade agreement could have a positive effect of 23% on European exports to Japan. This, of course, also opens up prospects for our sectors and the entire Belgian economy. For Japan, too, this agreement will open a number of doors to the European market. It is up to our government to attract as many of these companies as possible who wish to establish themselves in Europe to our country. Since Limburg was recognized as a dislocated zone, our province is certainly asking for new investments that ensure direct, sustainable employment. After the closure of Ford Genk and the impact on employment in other sectors, this could certainly create many opportunities. Can you give an estimate of the positive effect this free trade agreement can have on Belgian exports as a percentage? Which sectors in our country will or will benefit most from this free trade agreement? Following the adoption of this free trade agreement between Europe and Japan at Belgian level, will you draw up a plan of action so that our companies can make maximum use of export opportunities to Japan and how do you intend to proceed? Are you planning a plan of action at Belgian level to encourage companies from Japan to settle in our country and how do you intend to proceed? During the talks did you also play out the assets of Limburg with regard to the recognition of Limburg as a dislocated zone? If so, what were the reactions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u74	Mr President, Mr Friart and Mr Janssen, the first point concerns bilateral trade. You stressed the importance of Japan, which remains Belgium's fourth largest trading partner outside the European Union. Our exports have continued to grow to a historic level, as they are 30 per cent higher than their 2010 level. It is very positive to note that our exports have increased significantly and have been very differentiated. It therefore concerns a large number of sectors of the economy. The pharmaceutical sector has been supplying the most important export products for several years. Japan is also the second destination market outside the European Union, after the United States and far ahead of China, with regard to Belgian exports of prepared food and beverages. You are right, Mr Friart: Japan is very important to us, even more so than China. That is why I and the Prime Minister have visited this country. Conversely, a single category of products, in particular motor vehicles, largely dominates imports from Japan. In addition to the discussions on the Free Trade Agreement, the FTA, and the problems relating to non-tariff barriers to trade, including with regard to Belgian beer, I will come back to this later on. I also discussed the MYRRHA project together with the Prime Minister and my Japanese fellow Members. I think this is very important. I would also like to inform you that it was decided to create a task force to study their participation in the project. In early June, Japanese scientists will come to Belgium for this. You know that the MYRRHA project is very important to the federal government. We hope that the experts and the Japanese departments will take a decision very quickly on their involvement in this very important project for all of us. Together with the Prime Minister, we also visited the headquarters of All Nippon Airways. That's what made all the news yesterday. The absence of a direct air link is an important handicap for our bilateral relations, especially in terms of attractiveness of Belgium for Japanese investment. Until now, ANA had not taken a decision on this, but yesterday the airline announced that it would launch a direct line flight between Brussels and Tokyo. The second point concerns the Free Trade Agreement. We have had contacts with Prime Minister Abe, the Minister of Economy, Japanese investors and the Belgian-Luxembourg Chamber of Commerce in Japan, and discussed the state of play on the EU-Japan Free Trade Agreement. On behalf of his government, Prime Minister Abe referred to the objective of reaching a Princess Agreement by the end of 2015. Prime Minister Abe highlighted the importance of reaching an agreement in principle by the end of 2015. This is a very clear and important message. All partners have fully supported the objective of achieving this and stress that the conclusion of such an agreement will increase the quality and intensity of EU-Japan relations. The partners also referred to the importance of the negotiations with the US in the light of the Transpacific Partnership (TPP). Everyone generally agrees with the analysis that only the Transpacific Partnership has the necessary political pull to get Japan to cross the red lines in the field of agriculture. There too, it is important to see how Europe-US and Europe-Japan are developing. The government agreement stipulates that negotiations under the EU-Japan Free Trade Agreement should be encouraged. For Japan, it is mainly about abolishing European customs tariffs which still weigh heavily on certain categories of industrial products, particularly in the automotive and electronic sectors. Negotiations on access to the ambitious market and the resolution of non-tariff barriers in the agri-food, chemical and pharmaceutical sectors, as well as strong provisions on sustainable development, are particularly important, including for Belgium, given our important role and our companies in this sector. You ask what this can mean, Mr Janssen. According to simulations made in preparation for the start of negotiations, a free trade agreement between the EU and Japan could increase European exports by 23%. An increase in the order of magnitude for Belgian agri-food exports seems real. It is therefore an increase of 23% for the whole of Europe. The question is to what extent Belgium will enjoy it, but since agri-food exports are so important, we assume that we can get an important share of that 23%. Today, these exports are often hampered by very high tariffs and a lot of embargoes. You also referred to Limburg: that is where the majority is about fresh fruit that is affected by it. If that fails or is otherwise regulated in a positive sense, this can also have a positive effect that everyone can enjoy, both Belgium and the companies close to you, the Limburg companies. Overall, the other export industries do not have to deal with high customs tariffs, but are equally likely to encounter regulatory difficulties which hamper their progress on the Japanese market. Pharmaceutical products, for example, should undergo a full second test and accreditation procedure before being allowed on the market. It goes without saying that, following the adoption of that free trade agreement, the Belgian authorities at federal and federated level, in the light of their respective powers, which we want to respect very carefully, will make every effort to assist our companies to further support and stimulate exports to Japan. On the subject of attracting Japanese investment, I would like once again to point out the following after the bilateral work visit. With the investment seminar we saw about two hundred representatives and CEOs at the highest level. The investment aspects, especially with regard to federal matters of taxation, social legislation and federal economic regulation, were underlined. It is also very important that we do so in cooperation and in full agreement with the regional authorities, which have important powers and have already taken initiatives. I am convinced of the importance of relations between Japan and Belgium. Our mission has proved to be very important to all of us, not only in diplomatic or political terms, but also in economic terms. I stress that we have respected the federal and regional competences: we have talked about the MYRRHA project; we have discussed with the ANA airline a project for a Brussels-Tokyo direct airline. We also talked about the Free Trade Agreement (FTA) which concerns the negotiations between Europe and Japan. We stressed the importance of the Japanese economy and the Belgian economy and tried to convince Japanese entrepreneurs to invest in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u75	Minister, thank you for your explanation. Indeed, I believe it is important for our country to plan missions focusing on meeting other partners in other countries. This makes it possible to better position Belgium in all major markets. It also supports our industries in all these countries. This is an important step. We will pay attention to the MYRRHA file because it is important. We are pleased that an agreement with the ANA can be reached quickly. It will be easier for businessmen on the move. At European level, it is important to create links between Europe and Japan. Europe must be able to build itself in partnership with Japan, which is courted by the great powers. Europe must also be able to find its place.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u76	Mr President, Minister, I believe that the free trade agreement will be a positive story, both for Europe and Japan and for Belgium and Japan, both in terms of exports and imports. I also hope that it will be possible to create jobs, especially in the export-oriented sectors. I also hope that the new companies that are coming here will create jobs. One of the objectives of the current government was to create jobs. The Convention may provide for this. Finally, I would like to say that I would like to put my next question. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u77	Mr Janssen, your question No. 4349 is indeed converted into a written question. It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u78	Mr President, Minister, the 2013/34/EU Accounting Directive must be transposed into Belgian law by 15 July at the latest. In particular, this Directive provides for an increase in the turnover threshold and the balance sheet beyond which an undertaking is no longer considered to be small within the meaning of accounting law and company law. Large companies must have a corporate reviewer and be subject to legal audit. An increase in the threshold above which a company is no longer considered small will also result in an increase in the number of companies that are not subject to legal audit and that do not need a corporate reviewer, which, however, ensures the reliability of the figures and improves transparency. I asked you about this on March 10, but you did not yet have the opinion of the Central Economic Council, which you were to receive on March 18. You also did not have the comments of the working group led by the Conseil Supérieur des Professions Economiques. Minister, do you have the opinion of the Central Economic Council today? Can you communicate it to me? Do you have an agenda for transposing the aforementioned accounting directive into Belgian law? What does the sector say? Have you ever received any comments from the working group? What is your position with respect to the increase in the above-mentioned accounting threshold?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u79	Mr President, dear colleague, the opinion of the Central Economic Council was approved at its plenary meeting on 18 March 2015. This opinion is available on the above-mentioned Council website, but I will be happy to send it to you. In addition, the working group chaired by the Higher Council of Economic Professions to which you referred is responsible for deciding on all issues that arise in the context of the transposition of the Audit Directive and not on the transposition of the Accounting Directive 2014/34/EU. In my view, the connection between the audit threshold and the accounting threshold must be maintained. The Central Economic Council also shares my view. Article 141.2 of the Company Code will be maintained. According to this article, a commissioner must be appointed to small companies that are part of a group that is required to prepare and publish consolidated annual accounts. Monitoring of the criteria of Article 15 of the Company Code must continue to be carried out at the group level for those companies which, taken separately, are small.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u80	Minister, thank you. Opinions are given and a position is taken. I assume that the transposition will take place soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u81	Question No 4053 by Mrs Karine Lalieux is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u82	Minister, recently a press release was published stating that mobile banking is not safe. An American security specialist and his students investigated the response of app builders to a leak in the software of more than twenty thousand applications in September of last year. The research, although small-scale, shows that all fifteen apps examined still contain the software that makes them vulnerable. The apps accept forged safety certificates, allowing hackers to easily obtain sensitive data. Unthank you for the small scale of this research, the chances are that many of the apps that turned out to be vulnerable last year have still not been modified. The evidence that this is not a minor problem is the fact that the State Bank of India's mobile banking app was also in the investigation, not a small bank. So the question arises as to what the situation is with us. Is mobile banking safe in Belgium via apps? What are the agreements with the sector to ensure safety? Is there a need for additional measures? If so, what could they be? Do you know of any financial damage to Belgian banks due to a lack of security in mobile banking apps?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u83	Mr President, Mr Klaps, firstly, according to the figures of the National Bank of Belgium, there are more than 2 million subscriptions to mobile banking and 17 million domestic subscriptions were made in 2014 through mobile banking. Despite the huge success of online banking, only 14 fraudulent transactions, of which we know, took place in the first quarter of 2015. Moreover, this fraud or deception was not due to vulnerabilities in mobile banking apps but to the deception of the user in whom the secret code was obtained by fraudsters for fraudulent transactions. From this it can be deduced that mobile banking via apps in our country is safe. In view of the number of subscriptions and the domestic bids, the problem has to be considered in its proper proportions. Secondly, the National Bank of Belgium monitors the safety of mobile banking in Belgium as a prudential supervisor of the banks. In consultation with the National Bank of Belgium, Febelfin has also drawn up additional guidelines for the security of mobile banking. At European level, secure Internet payments are one of the priorities. In this context, reference can be made to the European Banking Authority's Directives of 19 December 2014 on the security of payments via the Internet. They shall enter into force on 1 August 2015. The National Bank of Belgium will monitor compliance with these directives. Furthermore, the revision of the European Payment Services Directive, which is at a final stage, provides that the European Banking Authority will be given a mandate to develop technical security standards for, inter alia, remote electronic payments, including mobile payments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u84	Minister, that is good news. The introduction of mobile apps a few years ago has led to a huge increase in online banking. The ease of use is many times greater than in traditional home banking. However, the Achilles heel of each system remains the reliability and safety. I believe that this is a legitimate and constant concern in the sector. I am therefore pleased that this is being followed up closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u85	Minister, more and more pop-up stores called ephemeral shops are flourishing all over the country's cities and municipalities. This type of trade, as its name suggests, has a relatively short lifespan and is expected to appear and disappear after a few days, weeks or even months. It is a concept born in the United States in the 2000s that has grown in recent years with the development of e-commerce and also due to the high availability of commercial areas that remain vacant due to the economic crisis. This type of initiative seems to be used by several categories of traders, including starters who want to launch their commercial or craft activities but do not have the means to have their own store, or designers, stylists, artists of all kinds who want to make their creations known and showcase by creating buzz and awakening the curiosity of consumers. Some also take this opportunity to test the market at lower risk before embarking on it in the long term. Minister, do you have any idea the extent of this phenomenon? Is it limited to the country's major cities? Are there data on this type of trade? Do these ephemeral shops need to be identified annually? What are the main sectors of activity involved in these ephemeral stores? Is there any idea of the profile of these traders who engage in this type of activity? In the absence of figures, have you planned to carry out such a census? How can we ensure that consumer protection legislation is respected in a trade which, by its very nature, will soon disappear?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u86	Mrs Winckel, unfortunately I have no indication of the extent of the pop-up blind phenomenon. The Economic Inspectorate rarely receives reports of ephemeral stores. These are the following businesses: furniture and mattresses, clothing, footwear and end products of all kinds (kitchenware, suitcases, toys, etc.).). There is no indication of the profile of the traders. The operation of a trade in the form of a pop-up store does not exempt the company from complying with consumer protection regulations. The Economic Inspectorate therefore has all the powers to control them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u87	Minister, thank you. It is true that this phenomenon is becoming more and more widespread. It would be interesting to have figures to see if proposals were to be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u88	Mr President, Minister, at the committee on 28 April last I asked you once again about the situation in CRIOC and I asked you to do everything possible to find a solution that would be acceptable to the various parties. In your reply, you indicated that you were also registering for a structural solution and that you were looking for the most appropriate forum to fulfil the tasks currently assigned to the CRIOC. You also wanted to consider with this new structure the issue of taking over the current staff of the CRIOC so as not to lose the accumulated expertise. You hoped to find a solution quickly by evoking "the next days or weeks". Since your statements, a month has passed. Given the urgency and seriousness of the situation, since workers are on notice, I would like to ask you again. What's the status? What's the status of your contacts? What track have you explored since April 28th? What proposal has CRIOC made, if any? What are the suggestions put forward by other stakeholders in the file? When will a solution be found?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u89	Mr President, Mr Nollet, as I pointed out in my previous reply, CRIOC is an autonomous legal person. Therefore, I am obliged to accept the decisions. Since our debate on 28 April 2015 in this committee, I have been confirmed that the members of the CRIOC Board of Directors are considering the creation of a new foundation of public utility. Such a foundation must be approved by the Minister of Justice. The analysis of the conditions provided for in the Act of 27 June 1921 led my firm to formulate reservations. Indeed, this law requires that a heritage be assigned to the objectives of the foundation. As always, Mr. Nollet, you are well informed. CRIOC held a board of directors on 8 May. The consumer organizations present stated that they wanted to form a non-profit association, which would enter into a new management contract with the SPF Économie. They also met on 21 and 27 May 2015. We are taking a more positive direction and we are not running for disaster. As a result, last Friday my firm received a draft statute for this new association. All consumer organisations on the Consumer Council will participate. This draft statute and a draft management contract were discussed with a delegation of consumer organisations on the same day. There are no more fundamental points of divergence. Now, the file should be able to be finalized very quickly. As you know, the draft management contract covers certain elements. I would stress once again that we have a budget of EUR 500 000 freed up during the budgetary control. Mr Nollet, to be very clear, we, together with my advisers, have made a great deal of efforts to find a solution as quickly as possible. It was not obvious and it required discussion. If I'm positive, I'm realistic. The draft statutes of a new association are now approved. It is important to stress that all consumer organisations are around the table, especially Test-Achats, whose position in this debate matters a lot to me. On the basis of very concrete elements, I am currently very positive but also realistic. I'll be happy when the deal is signed. The statutes are now being drafted. There are no issues or fundamental differences in this case. I hope you are also very positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u90	Minister, I'll take your remarks back. I am like you, positive and realistic. I'm positive because your advisors have been heavily involved in the case. Unlike what was initially attempted, a little by force, you started from the proposals they had made. You first refused a first proposal from the foundation. They then came back with another proposal on the ASBL and you worked constructively following this lead. So I'm positive about how you work. I am also positive because all associations participate. You're talking about Test-Achats, but there are others too that fit into this perspective. It is therefore positive for the future. However, I am realistic. From €1,250,000 in grants to €500,000 will result in redundancies of staff. The new ASBL will have to take over only part of the staff; I suppose that will happen in this way. This will not be obvious in the light of the tasks assigned. I will certainly come back to you with other questions about a few points of analysis of the management contract, once it is finally approved. Consideration should be given to the possibility of resuming, in the years to come, a cruise speed better adapted to the importance of the missions. I'm realistic too, because I know that until everything is done, you have to be careful. I do not know what the next step is. I assume this is the signature.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u91	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u92	I wanted to conclude on the positive side, beyond realism, and thank you, quite simply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u93	That's a good conclusion!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u94	Mr Minister, I would like to ask the final question of this sitting, in the hope of seeing you again soon for the continuation of our many work in this committee. It should not always be about energy, but that is a personal opinion. My question concerns the charging agencies. If, due to certain circumstances, a person is unable to obtain insurance on the market or has to pay insanely high premiums for it, a so-called charging agency may be called upon. This then determines the contributions and the conditions of the insurance so that the person concerned can still receive an affordable insurance. In an open letter to the government, Test-Achats asks for an evaluation and a possible reform of the charging agencies. As a result, it calls for inequality in expertise and resources between the representatives of the insurance sector and the representatives of consumers. As a result, at least according to Test-Achats, consumers cannot be properly defended and the charging agencies risk losing their purpose. I have a series of questions for you. Have you had discussions with the sector on this issue? Do you intend to evaluate the operation of the charging agencies? If so, what is your timetable? Do you think there is a need for reform? What exactly do you think should change? On the basis of the figures available to you, can you indicate whether more or less charging agencies are being used? What's the possible cause of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u95	Mr Klaps, there are officials of my administration in the various charging offices, the FPS Economy. I asked them to draw up a detailed report on the operation of these agencies and to draw up an analysis of any problems. On the basis of that report, I can take targeted action. As far as the Auto charging agency is concerned, I am looking at ways of optimizing its operation. As regards the use of charging agencies, a distinction should be made between the agencies. For example, in 2014 no less than 27.5% more requests for charging were received at the Auto charging agency than in 2013. This means that the car charging agency is getting more and more familiar. On the other hand, there is a constant reduction in the number of files submitted for the Natural disaster charging agency because the vast majority of insured persons are covered by natural disasters under market conditions. As regards the debt balance insurance charging agency, it should be noted that the agency has been established since 30 December 2014. It is therefore too early to give concrete figures on this. On 15 June 2015 we also planned a meeting with the president of the charging agencies Auto en Natuurschampen. So we'll continue with the file. Mr Klaps, I assume you will follow it closely. Once we have received the reports, and I know how to deal with them, you will certainly ask questions about them or at least you will be interested in the progress of the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u96	Minister, I will not disappoint you in continuing to ask questions about this issue. You can rest assured of that. It is indeed useful to look at these matters. It's two different things for me, too. The charging agency Debt balance is about people with any medical problem to which they have no debt. That's what I'm assuming. In this respect, it is very important that we can provide a correct service. The charging agency for natural disasters shows that, when we get the sector along, the charging agency becomes less and less necessary. We can only welcome the fact that this insurance is included in the standard coverage of most insurance companies. As far as the car is concerned, we need to take an effective look at what we're doing, because there's a huge increase. I can testify from experience that a number of years ago many drivers, who may have been eligible for this, were not aware of the existence of that agency and that the sector was not actively referring to it either. The question is whether the increase is caused by an intertwined acceptance problem in the sector or by greater name awareness. We will have to look at how we can optimise the functioning of the Agency. Minister, I look forward to the report on your consultation and your next steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-02-54-commissie-ic184x.u97	Colleagues, as agreed, we will close our work for this morning.
