ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u1	Mr President, Minister, following the foiled attack on the Thalys on 21 August, part of the international press has severely criticized Belgian legislation, which is considered too permissive in terms of the sale of arms, to the point of calling Belgium a hub of arms trafficking, to mention but the very prestigious New York Times. Of course, all this is seen from afar and the analysis certainly lacks precision, but the subject has been debated for a long time in parliament and in specialised circles. You then announced four measures to combat arms trafficking more effectively: better European collaboration – I can only give you reason – the assessment of the degree of application of the circular of the Attorneys General of 22 October 2012 which had been adopted following the shooting of Place Saint-Lambert in Liège – we know what the arsenal discovered in the author of the facts was – the reactivation of the Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee for Combating Illegal Arms Transfers (CITI) and the tabling of a draft law allowing the implementation of telephone listening and specific research methods in relation to investigations into the trafficking of firearms. These measures were more than expected. They also respond to the European will behind Directive 91/477, which states that it does not in any way affect the power of EU countries to take measures to prevent illegal arms trafficking. Indeed, we must make every effort upstream to avoid having to legislate downstream, urgently, in the wake of tragedies. Legislation under the spotlight is generally the least well-inspired, but the subject is a little tricky to talk about the fire of the news. It is also clear that, without the clear directive of the Minister of Justice to the Public Prosecutor's Office, an effective and coordinated policy to combat arms trafficking will remain a pious wish. I must, however, draw your attention, for example, to the recent reports by Vlaams Vredesinstituut, which believe that, in addition to legislative and prosecutorial shortcomings, there are also shortcomings in the registration of seized weapons and the monitoring of weapons sold on the Internet. The latter, which are a well-known problem for the Federal Police, have been pointed out by the European Commission in its assessment of the implementation of the aforementioned European arms directive in our country, noting that Belgium lacks human and administrative resources to prevent it. How often does the Interdepartmental Committee to Combat Illegal Arms Transfers meet? What has happened in the last three years, from 2013 to 2015? What are the results of the evaluation of the application of the circular of the prosecutors general of 22 October 2012 which established, inter alia, a reference magistrate responsible for combating arms trafficking? You announced in committee on 31 August that you would have a full report on the state of their work for 23 September. Does this report provide you with new or more specific guidance on the initiatives to be taken? Does the best European collaboration that you wanted and that requires better exchange of information via Europol also concern weapons for sale on the Internet that by definition go beyond our borders? Are awareness-raising operations on the potential dangers posed by the possession and handling of a weapon envisaged by the FPS Justice? When the arms possession law was modernized, under previous governments, there was a campaign of information that might need to be revived. Following the Thalys case, has the Consultative Council on Arms issued an opinion to you setting out new proposals for orders and measures to be taken under the Arms Act?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u2	Mr President, Mr Maingain, the royal decree setting up an inter-federal consultation committee for the fight against the illegal production of and trade in arms has been finalised. It is currently subject to the signature of the Minister of Security and Home Affairs. The committee shall meet at least four times a year. I now come to the evaluation of Circular COL 14/2012, on the judicial approach to arms trafficking, which I have requested from the College of Attorneys General. It was indeed discussed at the College of Public Prosecutions on September 10, 2015. It was decided that the five prosecutors general would ask each of the king's prosecutors within their jurisdiction to assess the police organization and the division of labour of the police and their prosecutors, as well as the identification and registration of cases. A draft comprehensive evaluation is expected to be discussed at a meeting of prosecutors general in November. My efforts to improve European cooperation have two aspects that must necessarily go hand in hand. The first is the harmonisation of European arms legislation; I met with the Internal Market Commissioner on 2 October to discuss it. The Commission has recognized the urgency of legislative intervention and is preparing binding rules on the criteria for the neutralisation of firearms, in order to avoid, for example, the possibility of reforming an operational weapon from two neutralised weapons in two different States or from alarm weapons. I stressed the importance of speeding up the work and the Commissioner confirmed that she had received the message. It asked its services to quickly finalize the proposals which will then be discussed by the Council and the European Parliament. Belgium is very active in the preparatory work carried out by the Commission. The expert group was scheduled to meet on 15 October and 3 November. The other aspect is police and judicial cooperation to combat arms trafficking. Here too, the Belgian services are very active in stimulating this cooperation, on the one hand, in the exchange and sharing of information via the Schengen SIS information system and that of Interpol, as well as the transmission of Europol information for strategic operational analysis and, on the other hand, in the field, in particular through joint operations to control certain means of transport and through cooperation with third countries, in particular those of the Balkans. This work received new impetus with the adoption by the JHA Council of conclusions in Luxembourg on 8 October, which address these various aspects. So far, we have focused on the issue of international arms trafficking. As you rightly point out, this does not prevent us from preparing a public information campaign in consultation with the police, which is the best channel for disseminating this information. The Advisory Board did not meet specifically following the Thalys attack. It is planned to meet shortly, particularly in the context of the implementation of the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u3	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for all this factual information which probably gives a new direction to the fight against arms trafficking. We'll check the results in the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u4	Mr President, Minister, today the clerks of the French-speaking youth court in Brussels find themselves in a precarious situation. There are thirteen offices of youth judges. As with investigating judges, in terms of terms of office, each judge is expected to have the assistance of a clerk and an employee. However, for these offices, in addition to the lack of a clerk, only seven employees work out of the thirteen who should be there. In addition to this system, the central transplant, normally composed of twelve full-time equivalents, has only ten persons, seven of whom are part-time. The cause of this shortage is the non-renewal of the clerks who left. However, the Registrar plays an essential role at all stages of the proceedings. Not only does he hold the pen but he is also independent of the magistrate, despite what some may think and he is there to record everything that happens during the hearing. He opens and monitors the files, verifies the documents required by law, maintains the scheduling of the hearings and finalizes the final version of the judgements. In addition, they are required to be present at the hearings in which they hold the minutes. Moreover, in a juvenile court, action must be taken quickly to protect the minor. When the latter commits a serious act, he must be taken over without delay. The youth judge must therefore intervene quickly. The Registrars are also responsible for this part of the work. The lack of staff seriously hampers the proper functioning of the Brussels Youth Court and also causes understandable stress for the clerks who fear that they will not be able to perform their many tasks properly. In some cases, therefore, burnout is a risk. These infernal working conditions have recently led the Brussels youth judges to threaten to release the detained minors before them. Mr Minister, on 14 October, you would have met with a delegation of youth judges from the French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels. You told them that there would soon be a publication of additional places. Other solutions have been put forward. However, hiring new clerks may take time and working conditions will continue to be difficult. Therefore, the judges remain vigilant and the repelled threat of releasing these young people could quickly come back if by 15 December nothing has changed. Therefore, minister, could you explain the various solutions that will be taken to deal with the lack of clerks? What will be the deadline for your project to be implemented? What do you intend to do today, so that the working conditions of registrars and registry employees are less difficult until additional jobs can address this problem? How many people will be hired in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u5	Minister, the players in the judiciary, and particularly those in Brussels Justice, regularly denounce the shortage of staff in the registry. Admittedly, the process of engagement is not simple and, contrary to what may be thought, it does not succeed in deciding to fill the framework so that it can be completed as quickly as possible. Moreover, despite the commitment of staff, it would appear that employees of the Brussels grafts regularly request a transfer. It therefore seems necessary to work not only in filling staff cadres, but also in retaining staff in the posts to be filled. Minister, since you took office, how has the filling of the staff of the French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels evolved? What means have been put in place to fill the personnel cadre? How many selection procedures have been initiated? New staff members were announced for October and November. What are the deadlines in this regard? When can we hope to fill the frame as announced by you a few months ago? Is it true that there are more requests for the transfer of staff from Brussels courts than elsewhere?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u6	Mr President, Mr Massin, the evolution of the filling of the registry of the French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels gives us the following evolution. For the Registrars, including delegations, prior to the reform, there were 63.8 Registrars. In November, there were 103. By July, there were 100. In October 2015, there were 102. As for the other staff, before the reform there were 142, in November there were 180, in July 2015 there were 175, and at present there are 161. There is therefore a decrease, particularly for the other staff members, between July and October, of 14 units for the Registry staff. Currently, the Registry of the French-speaking Court of First Instance has 264 staff members, 103 of whom (out of 125 staff) are clerks. In addition, the first president of the Court of Appeal delegated 7 staff members for 6 full-time equivalents from the Dutch-speaking court of first instance to the French-speaking registry. As far as the Dutch-speaking court of first instance is concerned, 35 clerks are appointed and 14 delegations of clerks are allocated out of a total (framework) of 49 clerks. The first president temporarily delegated 5 clerks to the French-speaking tribunal. Recently, I have responded to a request from six additional delegations of Registrars. 18 vacant places of clerk at the French-speaking court and 10 vacant places of assistant were published at the Moniteur belge on 28 July 2015. Given the number of candidates (39 for clerk seats and 34 for assistant seats), it can be expected that the first clerk appointments will take place in the course of November and the first assistant appointments will take place by the end of this year. A new publication of vacant posts is being prepared. In concrete terms, eight clerks and eighteen assistant posts are planned. In the meantime, I have obtained the agreement of the Finance Inspectorate, so that this publication could already take place in the next few days. At the same time, I will reissue six vacant posts of Registrar-Chief of Service, namely promotion at the A2 level. Selection for clerks' jobs has started. Candidates for the new positions will be included in this selection process so that it can be expected that all selections will be completed within nine years. The selection process for assistants will take a little longer. The first appointments are expected to take place by the end of the year and the remainder will end in January of next year. As for a change, providing for all jobs is obviously the President's wish, but we must take into account the many factors that make it difficult to achieve this objective. The number of candidates is still insufficient, the current staff are looking for other horizons, whether they can get a promotion elsewhere or retire. That's why I told you this decrease, between July and October 2015, of 14 units for the other members of the Registry staff. Due to the relocation of the home to the workplace and mobility problems in large cities, Brussels staff are trying to find a job closer to their home. This phenomenon is not new. At present, we find that one third of the applications for transfer registered – 50 out of a total of 151 French-speaking staff – concern Brussels staff. It would be useful to introduce certain restrictions with regard to such requests. I have already had a draft royal decree prepared which provides that staff members can only obtain a transfer after three years. Trade union consultation will take place again on 9 November.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u7	Mr President, Minister, in mid-March you presented your action plan against radicalization in prisons. The plan contains ten measures, ranging from the best living conditions in prisons to the creation of specialized wings for persons identified as radicalized, including training by the State Security of Prison Staff and systematic involvement of religious representatives. These initiatives, while interesting, raise questions in their practical implementation. I fully agree with you that prisoners are a particularly vulnerable group that deserves more attention and follow-up, which requires better living conditions in prisons. I therefore wonder about the Government's willingness to review the Law of Principles of 12 January 2005 concerning the prison administration and the legal status of prisoners, when you have the opportunity to issue a royal decree implementing the chapters of this law which are aimed precisely at promoting the reintegration of prisoners and therefore at combating their radicalization. I also note that your plan mainly concerns prisoners whose radicalization is proven, either by obvious signs of radicalization or by a conviction related to their convictional behaviour. However, radicalization in prisons should be prevented upstream. Moral support for Muslim detainees is thus claimed by the voluntary sector and also by several actors in the world of justice. In 2011, for example, the Arlon Muslim Association approached the Arlon prison management in order to obtain permission to organize visits as regularly as possible to Muslim prisoners. The stated aim is to support them morally during their sentence and to prepare for their social integration after their release from prison and with a view to ensuring the recognition of the democratic values of our rule of law and respect for the law. It seems that this letter would never have received a reply from the management of Arlon Prison. I do not want to judge here the particular case of Arlon prison, but rereading an answer to one of our colleague Özen's questions in committee, you replied very explicitly that you want to encourage specific initiatives towards radicalised prisoners in which prison visitors would be involved. I agree with the idea that, I quote: "The prison visitors can, by breaking the isolation of some, counter certain phenomena of radicalization. In this way, I want to thank them for their daily work." This initiative, which was in the sense that you wanted, was not, however, welcomed. Minister, could you give me a few more details? How many Islamic counselors do they work in our prisons? In the Justice Committee on 20 May, the number of 18 councillors and 9 future councillors was advanced. I do not know whether more Muslim religious advisers have been appointed to prisons. When will special neighbourhoods for radicalised or convicted persons be set up in Bruges and Ittre? What do you propose for prisoners of other obedience than Muslim and who do not have moral or philosophical assistance? Under what conditions can prison visit projects supported by the voluntary sector, such as the above-mentioned Arlonese ASBL, be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u8	Mr President, Mr Maingain, as you rightly point out, the fight against radicalisation in prisons is the subject of particular attention both at the level of my administration and at the level of my strategic cell. I have indeed put in place an action plan whose achievements are about to be achieved. The framework of Islamic Councillors currently includes 18 full-time equivalents of which 16.7 full-time equivalents are currently working. I would point out, however, that these are the appointed advisers. Voluntary Islamic advisers are not included in this framework. I asked for an extension of the framework of 9 additional full-time equivalents, specifically for Islamic advisers, and 4.5 full-time equivalents for other cults and philosophies. I look forward to a green light from my Budget colleague in the coming weeks. I therefore confirm the figures as quoted in May. The opening of the specialized sections, including the reception sections for radicalized prisoners who request specific care, remains planned for the end of the year as announced earlier. These sections will be installed in Ittre and Hasselt, replacing the initial Bruges selection, following the ongoing rationalization exercise. The efforts made are part of the fight against radicalism and radicalization in prisons. The emphasis is on Islamist radicalization, simply because it is reality on the ground. It is at this level that the problem currently arises. It goes without saying that if this proves necessary, a reorientation towards other forms of radicalism and radicalization would be possible. As far as the voluntary sector is concerned, I am certainly not opposed to it playing a role in action against radicalism and radicalisation in prisons. Rather, it is a Community competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u9	The latest information is obviously interesting. You therefore believe that your fellow members of the Community governments can invite prison managements to accept proposals for collaboration such as those I have mentioned. You'll have no objection. Thank you for your guidance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u10	Question No 6823 by Mrs Matz is transformed into a written question. Question No 6838 is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u11	Minister, according to the press, on January 1, 2016, the FPS Justice would terminate all paper subscriptions and journals used by magistrates. It will also do so with the Jura and Stradalex electronic documentation subscriptions by May at the latest. The Documentation Commission, which is expected to be dissolved in December, has confirmed these elements. From 1 January 2016, this should fall within the jurisdiction of the self-governing courts. It will therefore be up to the collèges of the headquarters and the public prosecutor's office to conclude new subscriptions. In addition, a 20 per cent reduction in the budget is announced. As a result, the Association of Magistrates' Unions (ASM) has been concerned about these elements and is not at all certain that there will be enough money to subscribe to new subscriptions. On the other hand, there is a series of specific subscriptions that are supported according to the specialization of magistrates and the law is becoming increasingly difficult and specialized. The Chair of the ASM said it was sad that judges did not have access to all the documentation, as lawyers in the private sector could have. When a magistrate is confronted with the use by a lawyer of final court decisions or doctrines that are not available to him, this may affect the quality of the judgements and the answers and even the imagination of the magistrate when it comes to making decisions in particularly difficult and sensitive trials. It would appear that no transitional period is foreseen. From then on, everything will be cut off from 1 January 2016. We can ask ourselves the question. Depending on the different public contracts they should be awarded, will the various colleges at the head office and the public prosecutor's office have the time to ensure the transmission, or in any case the acquisition of these banks of legal data or legal works for the magistrates, so that they can make use of them from 1 January? As you know, judges, in order to avoid paper, have been encouraged to switch to 100% in the consultation of case law on computer media; I myself am also using it as a lawyer. They were also provided with a nice computer, which allows them to go to the data banks. Today, unfortunately, we seem to be moving towards a cut-off of this access, unless the procedures are set in motion for things to work. It's a lot of money, so publishers are obviously worried. The FPS Justice is talking about bidding. The problem of terms and deadlines arises. Minister, these are my questions. Do you confirm to me that it is the colleges of the seat of the Public Prosecutor's Office that will conclude the new subscriptions for magistrates, even if the budget is reduced by 20%? Imagine that the budget is falling and that it cannot be faced with the cost of these subscriptions, how will we do it? Beyond this, despite the autonomy of management, do you not believe that access to legal journals for magistrates must be guaranteed, and that it is your responsibility to ensure access to them? If the government confirms its willingness to get rid of its responsibilities, why not consider a transitional period so that magistrates can still consult the materials pending the completion of the proceedings? Why do you decide to open a public procurement and launch a tender? The whole will increase the deadlines. It is also known that some journals only exist in a specific publisher. In this context, apart from a possible discussion of price according to quantity, what is the point? Only they can provide them. Procedures exist. We are not obliged to make an invitation to tender or an invitation to tender. I'm waiting to hear you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u12	Mr President, the problem has already been outlined by my colleague. It's about the notice that the subscriptions were due to expire on January 1, 2016. I suppose this is done to review the system of collecting, processing and offering legal information and not to abolish it, because that would not, of course, be a smart move. Let us also look across the border to the Netherlands. We have the habit of having our case law published by private publishers so that judges should actually subscribe if they want to read the judgments of fellow publishers. Of course, that's a bit of the world upside down. In the Netherlands they are a bit further away. I have just looked at the website case law.nl. There is a great deal of progress in the public offering of case-law handed down by courts. I also heard that there is a pilot project in Belgium to build a similar website. However, the development would not yet be fully on track. I have a few very specific questions, Minister. First of all, is it true that the legal subscriptions to the current publishers are being discontinued? If so, why was this decided? Secondly, will there be a new cooperation through public procurement from January 2016 or will transitional measures be needed? In the case of transitional measures, I would have liked to know what they will mean in concrete terms. Thirdly, where is the development of a website of the courts where all useful information from courts can be found, but also all useful case law can be consulted? What will this website contain in concrete terms? When do you expect this website to be operational? Finally, is it still acceptable that courts in the 21st century still do not have a well-built website with all relevant information and justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, the current subscriptions have indeed been terminated; however, there is no reason to be alarmed. In fact, termination was necessary to the extent that it was part of a new system to be introduced from next year. From 2016, the judicial services will be able to decide for themselves, via the colleges, which publications they want to order on the basis of the new catalogue. This will result in a more efficient allocation of resources. It was in this context that the current market notice period had to be respected. All decisions will be made jointly with the colleges. There is a working group on legal documentation in which representatives of both colleges sit. A communication on the subject had also been sent to all judges. This does not mean that the magistrates will no longer have the necessary working tools. On the contrary, the majority of magistrates are pleased to be able to take the decision of what they need or do not need. Not every magistrate uses the same type of legal documentation. As this case concerns more than EUR 10 million, I can understand that the companies concerned are concerned. But it is our task to manage public funds efficiently, so to re-examine these contracts and to adopt a sound negotiating position vis-à-vis the suppliers with whom the services and my firm have contacts, in order to best accompany this evolution. Even yesterday, a meeting was held at my office on this subject. Be aware that in the meantime I am ensuring the continuity of the public service that is Justice. There's nothing to worry about. As regards the question about the pilot project, Mr Van Hecke, I think there is confusion between two different dossiers. We did not receive your question until this afternoon, at 1 p.m. We'll do our best. You are probably talking about the Vaja project, which is separate from subscriptions to legal documentation. It is a project that aims to create a database of all judgments and judgments. This is an operational database, with the following functionalities: building an electronic archive, making copies and expeditions of the judgments and sending them electronically to whom it belongs. This database is not conceived as a database for case law. This requires a completely different approach, such as anonymisation, keyword analysis, classification according to a thesaurus, selection based on legal criteria, addition of legal analyses, etc. From the outset, I dare say that a more complete entry into service of Vaja should be possible by the end of next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u14	Minister, I am impressed by your optimism. I am also surprised at your assertion that all judges rejoice. It is not at all this information that brings me back from the magistrates on the ground. You're saying a communication...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u15	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u16	Even most of them! Beyond being political, I still have the chance to have a law firm. So I'm meeting magistrates. That's not their feeling at all. You say a communication was sent to them all. That's not what happened to me either. I therefore invite you to have this verified by the Justice FPS. I don't really have the impression that all the magistrates have had this information, or even the good information that they could go to a catalogue of centralized publications from 1 January 2016. Today, the concern in the judiciary is that they do not know whether they will still be able to access their databases - brochures and publications that they usually centralize in the court in a library. If you are so sure of yourself, minister, you better reassure them because today they are not at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u17	Mr Minister, a signal from the magistrate came mainly because people were worried when they heard that the subscriptions had been cancelled. A letter was also sent afterwards, which I have seen, explaining what the intention is. I hope that this will be enough to alleviate the concern. There will of course be a completely new procedure. The question is whether the magazines and the legal database used today will still be available for consultation. This will depend on a number of internal procedures. I hope that the pushed-through savings exercises do not put a brake on the unlocking of the information. As far as the database is concerned, my question was rather that we should work on a system through which the judgments should be made available to those who are entitled to them and through which they should also be monitored. It is a system in which case law is made public with indeed keywords and so on. As I said earlier, it is hallucinating that a great deal of money has to be spent on the purchase of legal journals and subscriptions, while the justice of the magistrates themselves comes. With a good access system one can increase accessibility and at the same time save as all these expensive subscriptions may not be needed anymore. It is reported that this is being worked on, but perhaps that information is not correct. I will inform you more about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u18	Mr President, Minister, on November 29, 2013, the prison in Verviers was permanently closed due to its disrepair. It held 50 defendants in the prison and up to 240 convicted in the prison, mostly from the Verviers and Eupen regions. The prison was also characterized by the existence of a psychosocial service and a medical-infirmary service, as well as by an important associative activity, in short, by the intervention of an entire panel of actors promoting a vision of reintegration which was also highlighted by the general administration of the prisons. Following the closure, the detainees were transferred to Lantin and Andenne. They are thus deprived of the visits of their families and friends. Verviers – Lantin, by bus, it's a two-hour-thirty trip. This is obviously impossible for many families. For the past two years, nothing has moved about the reconstruction of this prison, which is nevertheless inscribed in Masterplan 3 as a prison house and in which, although of smaller size, it retains the function of personal accompaniment of prisoners. Moreover, in its 2013 report, the General Directorate of Prisons said that a new facility would be built on the site and that the old infrastructure would have to be demolished in the second half of 2014. Apparently, parts of the old buildings have been retained and the cost of the new construction is likely to be lower than the original estimates. Is the reconstruction of Verviers Prison still a priority for you? What is the timetable for the work to be carried out? The Minister of the Régie des Bâtiments recently replied in committee that once the Minister of Justice confirmed that it was a priority, he would make every effort to get the work started as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u19	Mr President, Minister, in February 2014, Minister Turtelboom announced the decision of the Council of Ministers to rebuild the prison in Verviers. This was good news since the prison has been closed since 2012. Since then, we have been waiting for the building to be razed and rebuilt according to the plans established by Masterplan 3, prisons. In the province of Liège, only the prisons of Huy and Lantin are still open. This situation generates long journeys both for the hearings and for the families of the detainees. The reasons for this were explained in the previous question. You have just confirmed in an oral question the principle of the renovation of the Verviers courthouse. It therefore seems logical that the Verviers prison should also be rebuilt in accordance with the expectations of the families of detainees and the judicial world of the Verviers region. Minister, can you tell me when the reconstruction of Verviers prison will be implemented? Is this a priority for you? What will be the type of construction and operation of this prison? To which public will it be dedicated?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am aware of the problems, in particular the impact of the closure of the Verviers prison on the distances to be covered. However, this closure was not a choice but a necessity dictated by infrastructure problems. As far as the new project is concerned, I think I can briefly repeat here what has already been said several times about the projects of the new Masterplan 3. At present, this adapted plan is being finalized. The subject matter of this question is an integral part of it. This plan was drawn up in full cooperation with my colleague Minister Jambon, responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments. The existing masterplan is adapted in order to submit the new masterplan 3 to the forthcoming approval of the Council of Ministers. Details of possible projects under this plan can only be communicated after approval. The Justice Plan already gives considerable impetus to the projects and principles that will be incorporated into it. The Verviers reconstruction project is indeed one of the proposals included in this plan. Its exact shape still needs to be specified.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u21	Minister, I'm asking you a week too soon. Are you talking about Friday's Council of Ministers or a forthcoming Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u22	Both.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u23	It's not right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u24	I am optimistic, as Mr Massin has just pointed out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u25	Maybe a little too much sometimes. We have been waiting for a long time and I hope that this will really be the next Council of Ministers, and not a Council that will take place in several weeks. You say that the reconstruction of Verviers prison is included in the plan that will be presented. That's good news. But it only makes sense if we have a timetable, and the guarantee of the liquidation of the money so that we can do it. We'll watch.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u26	This is the next step.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u27	But if it doesn't exist, the first step is useless.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u28	I'm always early, minister. A Council of Ministers is in the process of deciding; I have heard that you were moderately optimistic. You said you shouldn't worry about Verviers prison at all. What is important to me is that from the moment the reconstruction of the courthouse is set in motion, the accessory follows the main, in good lawyers as we are. I therefore hope that the Council of Ministers this week or next week, not to push you too hard, will take care of this. The expectation becomes difficult for us, for the people in need, for the region and the city of Verviers. We are obviously attentive to what will happen. We hope that, in practice, things will take place normally with the Régie des Bâtiments, and that the work will be started, with a sustainable timetable for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u29	Minister, this question concerns the follow-up to the CAB funding file, a support and follow-up centre for sex offenders. On June 25, 2015, you answered questions about this lack of funding. You had met with them and the balance of 2014 was paid to them on 17 June. With respect to the following budgets, you said that there would be no cash flow problems until October 2015, as the balance 2014 was paid out. You also said that you were going to try to present their funding in the budget discussions to meet their needs. Minister, it is late October. I would therefore like to know what is apparent from your fighting within the government to secure this necessary funding from the CAB.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u30	Mrs Gerkens, I would like to point out that my services have, in the meantime, already made available most of the resources initially planned for the CAB for the 2015 operating year, as previously announced. In the meantime, my services have also prepared proposals that will help the CAB to ensure the continuity of its missions and its functioning. Of course, these proposals will have to be discussed first with the representatives of the CAB. To this end, a meeting at my office is already scheduled for the next few weeks. I'll be able to give you more information later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u31	Minister, thank you and I will ask you again later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u32	Minister, at least your cabinet will have previously been brought to the attention of some peace judges who are concerned about the transitional measures of the Law of 17 March 2013 on reform of the incompetence arrangements and the creation of a new protection status consistent with human dignity. The new law was based on the basic competence of all. The date of entry into force of this Act was 1 September 2014. In addition, a further phase was built-in at the explicit request of the peace judges. As of 1 September 2014, only the new files would in principle be covered by the new law. As of 1 September 2016, the provisional regimes already prior to 1 September 2014 would automatically be subject to the new rules, but limited to the goods aspect. From 1 September 2019 this would also automatically be the case for the other statutes, but for them logically both for their goods and for their person. At these times, all protection status automatically tilts into the new law. Let me get this straight. There is the issue of the Law of 10 August 2015 which amended the transitional measures of the Law of 17 March 2013 in certain areas. This law provides, inter alia, for the replacement of the words "for two years' by "for five years'. Now there are voices saying that there is a problem in this, in that it does not take the evaluation period from two years to five years, but the automatic roll-over date itself, i.e. the starting date of the new law. In summary, the date of 1 September 2016, two years after 1 September 2014, becomes 1 September 2019, while the evaluation period would remain unchanged at two years according to that reading, but would logically now run from 1 September 2019 to 1 September 2021. According to the Law of 10 August 2015, the periods for the amendments to the Law now coincide with the review of the Law for all articles of association in the period from 1 September 2019 to 1 September 2021. According to some, this will significantly increase the workload of the peace judges and create a legal knack. This is because the co-existence of both systems, the old and the new legislation, drags on longer than originally foreseen. Another aspect is the transitional measures for extended minors as set out in Article 229 of the Law of 17 March 2013. An advance of the automatic entry date for those extended minors from 1 September 2019 to 1 September 2016 would have the positive effect, among other things, that more parents or close relatives as guardian in 2016 would already have the possibility to anchor the family succession of the regime for the next generation. Minister, it is a rather technical matter that I bring you here, but I would like to hear your views on this concern. Is it a correction in the sense that the law would enter into force on 1 September 2016, as originally foreseen, but that the evaluation period would be increased from two years to five years? Is that desirable or is that not necessary? Should a new legislative initiative be taken to bring that deadline back to two years? What is the difference between the two options in terms of impact? What is your view on the idea of bringing forward the originally foreseen tilt date for extended minors from 1 September 2019 to 1 September 2016? Are you planning any initiative to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u33	Mr Lachaert, the basis of the Law of 10 August 2015 was a legislative proposal aimed at remedying some of the bottlenecks that had arisen in practice following the entry into force of the new law on incompetence. The Justice Committee considered that this was a purely technical proposal, which met an urgent question from practice and did not affect the spirit of the law. The advice of the Royal Covenant of the Peace and Police Judges was also sought and confirmed the need for legislative action in this respect. As regards the amendment of the transitional provisions of the Law of 17 March 2013, the proposal aimed at achieving a qualitative transition to the new protection status rather than merely a quantitative transition. To this end, automatic conversion was postponed. In this way, the peace judges have more time to convert the old administration files and this according to the spirit of the new law. In practice, there were concerns about the workload. As far as the latter is concerned, I would like to point out that, in particular, the evaluation of the dossiers within two years of the transition to the new Staff Regulations creates additional workload. However, postponing the automatic transposition until 1 September 2019 does not mean that peace judges must effectively wait for the transposition until then. It is appropriate that the justices of the peace are already starting to transpose, so that the workload is spread more evenly. In this respect, the law provides for the possibility of automatic transposition, for example when the annual report is filed, or of transposition at the request of an interested party without an obligation to do so. It is therefore not really relevant whether the evaluation of the files is carried out in the case of the transposition itself or only after the automatic transposition. Relevant is that it happens in a qualitative way. For this purpose, the deadline has always remained 1 September 2021, whether it is an automatic transposition or whether the period for the subsequent evaluation of the dossiers is extended. It cannot, of course, be denied that an extension of the evaluation period would have resulted in a much faster transition from the provisional regime to the new statute, but until the evaluation has taken place, it will have an impact on the director, not on the protected person, whose ability to act remains the same. Finally, I am not unneged about the idea of bringing forward the automatic transposition of the extended minor and the incompetent. It is important that these statutes are rapidly transposed, given their outdated nature and the absence of any customization in the organisation. It is very important that parents are properly informed about the benefits of the new statute.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hope that the peace judges who may still be concerned will have a satisfactory answer, but I know that they can also count on your cabinet for a direct response.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u35	Minister, a circular on the exchange of information and follow-up of foreign terror fighters (FTF) from Belgium was issued on 21 August 2015 by the Ministers of the Interior and Justice. While I obviously agree on the objective of better combating terrorism and radicalism, because the time is not lax or half-measures, I wonder about the legal soundness of your circular. This raises the following legal questions. First, with regard to the legal basis of the circular, article 62 of the Integrated Police Act sets out a limited list of missions of federal interest that may be subject to binding directives by the Ministers of the Interior or Justice. Is the exchange of information and follow-up of these combatants the responsibility of these missions? If so, why did you draw up a circular and not a binding directive? If not, what about the authorization of the Ministers of the Interior and Justice to organise such information gathering and monitoring of FTFs? Secondly, with regard to the composition of the local integrated security unit which the mayors must take the initiative to create to ensure the exchange of information, are social services and prevention services well concerned under the circular, as well as local non-police services? Indeed, this is a potentially infinite field: a CPAS, the organizing power of a school, a sports club, a paracommunal ASBL, a library, etc. Can you clarify this point? Finally, thirdly, how can a mayor be considered, on the basis of this circular, to be entitled to give general and specific information about individuals to non-police services? And, in return, how can a mayor be considered, on the basis of the circular, to be entitled to compel non-police services to give general and particular information about persons? I recall that not all police officers currently have access to the names of the jihadists. Here, it is a question of opening this information to an indefinite, if not infinite, field of people. In practice, does a mayor have the right to disseminate the list in question within the local integrated security cell? Have the consequences of this dissemination been well measured? Furthermore, we know that certain types of services have, in their legal obligations in terms of how to serve, professional secrecy. Trust and sincerity are cardinal values of effectiveness on the ground. This is one of the principles behind which these workers are likely to fall. In my view, since your circular does not have normative content, could it be invoked as a legislative authority allowing the communication of data covered by professional secrecy? So what is the line to take if a service or person refuses to collaborate? Does a mayor have a power of constraint and, if so, under what regulatory provision? Minister, it is necessary to be careful about this, because social workers, as well as anyone authorized to deal with information about suspected offences (in this case, the police and intelligence services), may face penalties for breach of professional secrecy. Finally, what about the personal, criminal and civil liability of the mayors if they go too far in the implementation of the recommendation or if they do not impose the required acts?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u36	Mr President, Mr Demeyer, in accordance with the Government Agreement, the circular regulates the management of information relating to foreign terrorism fighters, cooperation between the services and the various authorities and the arrangements for follow-up. In other words, it is addressed to all partners in the security chain and not just to integrated police missions. The Ministers of Justice and the Interior supervise the various departments involved in the collection of information and the monitoring of foreign terror fighters. A joint ministerial circular was the appropriate instrument to address the relationship between each department. The purpose of the circular is to create a climate of constructive cooperation among all actors. It therefore encourages the mayors to create a local integrated security unit in which local authorities, police, social services and prevention services refine the personalized monitoring of foreign terror fighters who have returned. However, this is not an obligation, but my colleague Jan Jambon and I are convinced that this is a necessity. In our view, the local integrated security cell is a forum for coordination, discussion and exchange of information. Neither the circular nor the creation of the local integrated security unit is intended to oblige social services to transmit information. The exchange of information will take place in accordance with the tasks and legal framework of each of the actors. The composition of the local integrated security cell can be very diverse, with various prevention partners. It will be up to the mayor to judge. As an administrative police authority, the mayor will receive the information he needs to carry out his mission effectively. A standardized fact sheet will be drawn up for each foreign terrorist fighter for administrative authorities. These fact sheets will serve as a basis for discussion within the local integrated security cell and also outside on the basis of the need for knowledge. It is therefore not a question of the provision of lists. The information will allow not only the mayor but also, for example, the prevention services to have a wider view of the situation of foreign terrorist fighters in order to ensure the best possible follow-up. The purpose is to provide sufficient information so that each department and organization can contribute as part of the normal task schedule.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u37	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his answer. I will allow myself to go through it carefully and to come back to the subject in a more precise way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u38	Minister, it has been several months since detainees at Saint-Gilles Prison would no longer have access to collective activities organized internally or by outside associations. These include courses, trainings, access to the library, sports activities and even the services of the cult This would be a forced choice of management, given the staff cuts experienced at Saint-Gilles prison. The impact of such restrictions is obviously not without psychosocial consequences for inmates and security for guards and society in general. Should I recall that these occupations contribute to the reduction of violence and tensions within the prison and promote the reintegration of prisoners? The testimony we receive from the prison indicates a deep-seated climate of despair, both among the prisoners and among the staff. Whatever medium- or long-term projects you have for our prisons, the urgency of the situation requires immediate responses. Minister, do you confirm that collective activities are no longer organized in Saint-Gilles prison and since when? Will the transfer of staff to Saint-Gilles prison make it possible to reorganize them? Do you consider that the government is providing itself with sufficient resources to meet the basic needs of Saint-Gilles' staff and inmates?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u39	Since the beginning of the summer holidays, regime activities within the prison of Saint-Gilles have indeed been adapted. I can assure you that this is a necessary measure dictated by the shortage of staff in this institution, because of the savings currently being made on staff. I would like to point out that I, the regional management and the local management, regret this measure, not only because this situation makes it difficult for the Community's stakeholders to put in place a quality offer, but also because we ourselves are also convinced that it is important to offer prisoners an appropriate regime. As originally planned, the measure was reassessed after the summer break. At the extraordinary meeting of the basic consultation committee on 23 September 2015, the situation regarding the offer of a scheme was reassessed taking into account the actual number of staff. However, it was concluded that the effects of the shortage of staff remain such that the resumption of collective activities is impossible without seriously threatening prison security. We will continue our efforts to resolve this impasse as quickly as possible and to be able to ensure a high-quality operation for everyone. The planned transfer of staff between Forest prison and Saint-Gilles prison could partly resolve the situation. The issue of the plan will be re-evaluated once staff are in place. The entire civil service must make savings, including the prison administration. In order to best meet the challenge, a "rationalization" working group has been set up with the trade union organisations. The aim is to enable prisons to continue to work properly despite the structural decrease in staff. The work is progressing well and producing encouraging results. The first theoretical rationalization exercises are expected to start in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u40	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Last year, there were a lot of tensions that led to strikes. Due to the lack of staff, for security reasons, it would not be possible to implement these adapted or streamlined services. As a result, tensions are increasing and this is only getting worse. Solutions should be found quickly to avoid a worsening of the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u41	Mr President, Minister, last Thursday I asked your colleague in charge of the Asylum about the reception and care of unaccompanied foreign minors arriving in Belgium. For several months, Belgium has been facing a massive influx of MENA. There are 25 to 30 arrivals per day, whereas in normal times there are 2 to 3 arrivals per day. We know the problem of places, but one of my questions was about the appointment of guardians who will take charge of these young people upon their arrival in our country. Minister, this influx makes things more difficult. Can you tell us if there are sufficient guardians so that every young person or child who arrives in Belgium can be followed by a guardian? Can you also explain to me how the distribution between Dutch-speaking and French-speaking tutors is made? I found out that some minors in French-speaking centres were assisted by Dutch-speaking tutors. It is an absurdity in terms of travel and contacts between the young person and his guardian. Mr. Franken announced to the House the appointment of new guardians. Do you confirm this information? Among these new designations, what will be the distribution between Dutch- and French-speaking tutors?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u42	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, the guardianship service, like other administrations, is indeed faced with an increasing number of unaccompanied foreign minors. At present, we have more than 500 reports per month and the number of guardianships in progress has exceeded 2,000. I can tell you that with regard to the measures taken by my administration, a letter was sent on 7 August 2015 to all the guardians to ask them if they were willing to increase the number of guardianships they had in charge. On that occasion, several guardians reiterated their availability in order to increase the number of guardianships in charge. In addition, as a result of the heightened press campaign on guardianship and the appeal to candidate guardians, more than 400 people have applied. Selection procedures are under way and successful candidates will have to undergo basic training. Furthermore, at my request, the Council of Ministers decided on 11 September 2015 to grant additional resources to the Guardianship Department up to EUR 1.5 million in order to strengthen the staff of the Service and to allow the recruitment of professional guardians from associations with which the Guardianship Department has already concluded cooperation protocols. A royal decree was signed on 23 September 2015. His execution is under way. It was published in the Moniteur belge on 13 October 2015. The associations are currently recruiting. These measures should continue to eliminate the delay in the appointment of guardians from November. Unaccompanied minors who are younger and more vulnerable are given priority as guardians. Finally, as far as language distribution is concerned, the linguistic role is determined by the procedure at the Office of Foreigners, but guardians must, to the extent possible, be able to work in both languages, since the reception centres are spread throughout the territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u43	Mr President, I thank the Minister for all this information which is a little reassuring because the influx is important. On the other hand, in terms of distribution, I continue to ask myself a lot of questions. Indeed, I am told that more and more there are Dutch-speaking tutors who have records of young people who are in Wallonia. Obviously, the young Syrians and Iraqis who arrive are systematically referred to a Dutch-speaking tutor, which is a problem when young people are in these French-speaking centres. I insist once again that we pay attention to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u44	Minister, my first question concerns the inclusion of corporate criminal convictions in the Central Judicial Case. You recently announced your willingness to introduce into the central criminal record a section for criminal convictions against companies. How long will the recording of corporate criminal convictions in the central criminal record be effective? Will this listing also concern past convictions? What budget is allocated to this measure? My second question concerns the coding of judgments and judgments in the central criminal record. News was recently revealed by the press last week: 300,000 judgements and judgments handed down between 2007 and 2014 were reportedly not encoded in the central criminal record. Minister, how was this delay in encoding discovered? What are the causes of this delay? Can you specify how this delay will be resolved? Do you have any information on the number of persons in recidivism who may have benefited from a lighter sentence because their previous conviction was not in the central criminal record?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic259x.u45	Mr Goffin, with regard to the criminal convictions of legal persons in the central criminal record, since the entry into force of the Act establishing the criminal liability of legal persons in 1999, the central criminal record has been obliged to register the convictions of legal persons in order to be able to comply with the requirement, in particular, of the regulations on the award of public contracts, which provides that candidates or tenderers must produce an extract of the criminal record. Although the registration of corporate criminal convictions is already effective, I want to fill the existing legal vacuum by adopting a law officially creating the central criminal record of legal persons, so that this legislation includes the use of business number as a key to the registration of such data and allows for the modernization of the computer application of the central criminal record. At present, and for many years now, the Central Criminal Record Service has been obliged to register these convictions of legal persons in a non-optimal manner, using two tools: one to register the name of the convicted legal person and the other to register his conviction. Modernisation is therefore needed to make the recording of this information much more efficient, modern and of impeccable quality. It is premature to budget the objective because the business case has not yet been finalized. The project was not considered a priority by the administration in the 2015 budget year because of more urgent priorities. As far as encoding problems are concerned, your question makes it possible to repeat things. Any extract from the central criminal record shall contain all the convictions communicated to it by the court registries. This is not a recent discovery. In recent years, the Central Criminal Record Service has, due to a lack of staff, had to set priorities for the registration of convictions and has logically recorded the most serious convictions as a priority. It is true that most of the convictions of the police, at present approximately 200,000, but also other convictions of the correctional courts or decisions of the juvenile courts, have been placed on hold for encoding. This does not mean, however, that these convictions would not be included in the criminal record extract. The computer application of the central criminal record automatically blocks the transmission of an extract if a conviction has not yet been recorded in a file. The Central Criminal Record Service shall be notified of any request for an extract requiring a supplementary record of a conviction, shall record it and shall issue the extract thereafter. It is therefore not correct that at least 120,000 recidivists would have been able to get away with it with a penalty far too light because of a delay in registration. Nevertheless, it is important to permanently resolve the historical encoding delay. To this end, I commissioned the ICT department of my department to search the Mach database for police courts for the approximately 200,000 convictions handed down by these courts. This operation will be carried out within six months. In addition, the Central Criminal Record Service will work, alongside the registration of new convictions arriving daily at the service, to register the 100,000 convictions awaiting registration. Contract personnel have come to strengthen the service. I am therefore confident that the situation will have improved significantly before the end of 2016.
