ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u2	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Tim Vandenput, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u3	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1005/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1005/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u4	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u5	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr David Clarinval, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u6	Mr President, Mr Minister, as you said, the creation of the National Pension Committee has only one purpose, to support the ongoing pension reform. As I pointed out in committee, this means supporting Bacquelaine reform! Not to organise social dialogue in order to determine the content of a fair and balanced reform but only to support the ongoing pension reform! Minister, you choose to set up an advisory structure, where unions, employers and government representatives will be entitled to the same representativeness. I denounce this three-way house, which institutionalizes the imbalance and places workers' representatives in an unacceptable position of weakness. If you wanted a wide space for reflection and opinion, you forgot a lot of actors. For example, the lack of seniors' representatives is a matter of concern. Beyond that, Mr.Minister, since it has the colour, since it almost tastes like it, but it is obviously not social consultation, let me speak of "Canada Dry" concertation. The dice are punctured since the result is known in advance. The Committee will be established and consulted after all decisions have been made. The antisocial foundations of pension reform have already been unilaterally adopted by your government: the reduction of the statutory pension age to 67 years, the abolition of the pension bonus, the extension of public sector careers, and the tightening of the early pension. In addition, the National Pension Committee will have no decision-making power and, above all, will not be able to issue an own-initiative opinion on the reform. However, the experts called for the National Pension Committee to play a much more ambitious role. Its tasks will therefore be summed up in answering the questions submitted by the government, which greatly distances us from the model of social consultation which we have experienced over the last fifty years and which is applied mainly in other places, such as the National Labour Council. I would add that, on the essential aspects of your reform (e.g. raising the legal age or early retirement) as well as on elements that you do not take into account in your reflection (healthy life expectancy, impact on women's pensions, impact on other branches of social security, impact on youth employment), you disregard any genuine consultation by refusing to debate all these issues. These will not be discussed. In these circumstances, it is difficult to consider this measure other than as an alibi, a surety of a profoundly unjust and anti-social reform. You are pretending to organize social concertation in order, in reality, to empty it out of its meaning and weaken it in order to move forward at the pace of charge, piece by piece, without having to listen to the world of work. Mr Minister, a broad social consensus on pension reform is essential. To consider this reform exclusively from the point of view of fiscal sustainability, regardless of social sustainability, regardless of the overall management of social security, is a profound mistake that will cause significant social divides by accentuating injustices.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the Working Group on Ageing Populations and Sustainability of the European Union once again pushed us through the facts. The European Union now has four active people for each pensioner. In the year 2060 that becomes a ratio of two to one. This means that the challenge of keeping our pensions affordable is a particularly important challenge because, of course, we want to maintain an effective pension system, even in the future, and this is once again underlined by the European Union. By the year 2060 we will again have an average life expectancy of seven years higher than is the case today. That is a nice evolution; that means that every year our life expectancy increases by two months. In addition to an excellent prediction, this is also an additional challenge, because it means that the retirement age will automatically rise. It is therefore necessary that we take the bull by the horns in this respect, and that is what the government intends to do. In fact, it has already taken a number of measures to this end. Today, the proposal is on the table to set up three institutions to accompany the reform. I am very pleased, on behalf of my group, that the establishment of the Academic Council provides a legal basis for the critical guidance given by the Pensions Committee 20-40 and that it will also be structured. I believe that this will undoubtedly improve the scientific basis for what is in the process of pension reform. The pooling of knowledge in this field, which occurs in various study centres, is brought together through the Knowledge Centre and made available to all those interested in the reform. Finally, it is of the utmost importance that the National Pension Committee, which is to be set up today, should ensure that the reform of the pension system is carried out within a social dialogue model. In addition, and unlike the previous speaker, we very much appreciate the fact that this is a tripartite dialogue. This means that the government will also be present as a representative of the political expression in this country. That seems to us to be three excellent ideas. However, on behalf of our group, I should like to warn against the proliferation of institutions. In the criticism of the opposition in this hemisphere, but also in the statements of the opposition in the committee's consideration of this bill, it is the intention on that side to put in a lot of additional clamps and gunfires so that pension reform would become a kind of train of inertia. This is in the hope that this reform will sink into all kinds of structures, perhaps partly unnecessary. I believe that with these three institutions that we are setting up today, we are more than well prepared to bring this reform to a successful conclusion in terms of scientific knowledge than in consultation with the social partners. It is also important that the draft provides for an evaluation of these institutions. At some point, it must be considered whether they are indeed contributing to an efficient reform. The question is also to what extent these structures will have to be reviewed when the reform is completed, but my group will be enthusiastically voting in favour of this draft law, because it seems that it is now possible to get on with the team. Yesterday, the new EU report showed the need for this. I wish the Minister of Pensions a great deal of perseverance to ensure that, accompanied by the three institutions, the ambitious pension reform of this government can quickly be launched in full width. This is a matter of great concern to the present generation. She's entitled to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just a few weeks ago, the government made the choice of responsibility by making difficult decisions to reform our pension system. He chose solidarity by adopting the necessary measures to increase the employment rate of seniors and to guarantee future generations the right to retirement that is so dear to us. With pension reform, the government has chosen the sustainability of our social security system. The purpose of the bill before us today is to create bodies to support this reform. An Academic Council, a Centre of Expertise and a National Pension Committee will be established. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to present these various bodies quickly in order to underline their relevance and usefulness in the context of this great reform. The creation of these three bodies follows the recommendations made by the Pension Reform Commission 2020-2040 in its report, a well-functioning and reliable social contract. Firstly, the Academic Council: in practice, it is a matter of maintaining the Pension Reform Commission 2020-2040 on a permanent basis. There will be 12 experts and scientists who will have the task of issuing substantiated opinions on pension proposals, either on their own initiative or on request. A priori, the Council will be composed of the current members of the Commission 2020-2040. Depending on the number of members who still wish to sit, the Minister of Pensions will consider whether new members should be appointed. Secondly, a consultation body on pension reform, the National Pensions Committee, will also be established. It is an advisory body which will have the power of opinion, in the form of a report, on any pension proposal made by ministers with pensions in their powers. Its membership will be tripartite, with eight members representing the workers, eight members representing the employers and eight members representing the federal authority. It is important to note that the National Pension Committee is created with the clear aim of supporting and supporting pension reform. It will have the task of making social arbitrations on pension proposals. Our legal system does not currently have a consultative body competent to decide on the three pension schemes, since the existing consultation bodies are competent for a particular scheme. A Centre of Expertise will also be set up, bringing together all the pension knowledge available from different administrations, public institutions or institutions of public utility. The Centre will be responsible for providing technical assistance to the National Pensions Committee, the Academic Council and the ministers who have the pensions in their functions. In concrete terms, this means that when the National Pensions Committee, the Academic Council or the ministers with pensions in their functions request technical assistance from the Centre to carry out their work, it will make available to them information which has already been coordinated between the various administrations and institutions. In order to ensure the sharing and coordination of knowledge, an accompanying committee of the Centre of Expertise is also set up. Mr. Speaker, ladies and gentlemen, I can only welcome this bill, which I would like to highlight three aspects in particular. First, I would like to commend Minister Bacquelaine's efforts to create these bodies quickly to continue to implement pension reform, a reform that is as necessary as it is important to safeguard future generations. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the functioning of the new bodies requires little financial resources, thanks to synergy with existing institutions. At a time when important efforts by all actors in our society are being called for, it seems to me important to stress this. Finally, the use of experts and scientists already working in the field, coordination and consolidation of information ensure the quality and pragmatic approach of these new bodies. In conclusion, the MR group supports this bill because it presents a comprehensive and coherent package to support the major pension reform and, therefore, to ensure the sustainability of our social security system.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u9	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is the Pension Reform Committee 2020-2040 that first spoke in its report in the summer of 2014 about the establishment of a national committee and a knowledge centre. Today we stand for the legal establishment of the National Pension Committee, which will be supported by a Knowledge Centre and the Academic Council, whose members have contributed to the Commission for the Pension Reform 2020-2040. In its report, in addition to its vision and different ideas, the Pension Committee has put particular emphasis on social dialogue. This is urgently needed to implement reforms that will have a major social impact. The 2015 Ageing Report was also referred to earlier. It is particularly important, however, that the consultation body should now be able to define further the lines of action, which have already been defined by the previous government. Through a broad tripartite representation of trade unions, employers and the government itself, the National Pension Committee can become a forum for social consultation on pensions, thus supporting the reform generally, thanks to the expertise of the Knowledge Centre and the Academic Council. Minister, it is important that the Pension Committee also discuss all the elements needed in a coherent vision and pension reform. You have already asked for a thorough discussion on the heavy professions and part-time pensions. We call for this to be done quickly and for a list of heavy professions to be drawn up on the basis of objective criteria. Several groups are waiting for clarity in this area, because there are several needs on the ground which require a proper regulation. These include workers with different working time arrangements, workers in shift systems, outside workers, workers at risk of safety or lifting weights. It is also about occupational categories that we do not always think about in this context. When we talk about raising the retirement age and leaving early retirement, we must include the story of the heavy professions in our deliberations. Mr Minister, yesterday the Ombudsman for Pensions in committee told us again about the different situations that are being addressed in the ombudsmen's service. This showed how hugely complex our pension legislation is. This is why the National Pension Committee takes into account all the elements in the development of the pension reform. An overall view of our pensions should also provide an answer to the heavy professions, the age at which one can retire early, the career to be developed and the raising of the retirement age itself, the time at which workers can rest effectively. It is therefore not only pension legislation itself that needs to be adapted; cross-border consultation is also needed in the context of end-of-life schemes, in the context of workable work. The social partners and the relevant minister will be involved. I would also like to express a concern. As you pointed out in committee, in addition to the National Pension Committee and the Academic Council and the Knowledge Centre, which provide support, representatives of the social dialogue should be able to make their proposals and not immediately foreseen. The National Labour Council should also be able to form opinions. Finally, in the model there is also synergy of different services through the knowledge centre. In the end, no new body will be set up, but coordination will be emphasised. That's important. There must also be good coordination if services continue to exist side by side. A merger is not an objective in itself. In particular, good cooperation and streamlined data collection are important. We must not wait for an evaluation after five years, we must evaluate the operation on a permanent basis. Mr Minister, if we adopt the text today, we hope in any case for rapid operationalisation, so that the slopes, which were already put forward during a previous legislative period as part of the pension reform, can be developed coherently, with the support of the various social partners, from the National Pension Committee. We hope that the three bodies together will be able to act as a driving force.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u10	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as several speakers have said before me, our pension reform is a major challenge. If a major challenge is to be met, this means that there must also be broad public support to meet this challenge. That is exactly what the Committee on Pensions says: make sure that every decision is taken, that there is broad support, that there is a broad public debate and that social dialogue, the consultation of the various social partners, is a priority. Mrs Becq has already mentioned it, this government states in the draft law which she has been inspired by the Pension Committee. She also calls the report of that committee a strong and reliable social contract with proposals for structural reforms of pension systems. However, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we must note that, when drawing up this draft establishing the National Pensions Committee, the ambitions of the Pension Commission are not fulfilled at all. I'm just going to name two of those ambitions, but two important ones, of course. There is the advisory nature of the decision-making power. The committee was very clear in that, both should be present, talking about dual competence. The first is the power of decision, in particular with regard to the parameters used in the pension system and in relation to pension budgets. The second is the power to provide advice, at the request of or on its own initiative, and to make recommendations. We note, Minister, that these two principles are being totally undermined. The report talks about monitoring the social quality and financial sustainability of our pensions by setting up this National Pension Committee, but the government chooses to undermine this decision-making power altogether. Let us then see what it says in the power that this government gives to the committee. It is striking that the government chooses to turn this power into an exclusive one-way street. Minister, when it comes to social dialogue and social dialogue, one of the first things one learns in social school is that one should not go one-way, but rather enter into dialogue. If you say that you take the social dialogue seriously and want to create a broad basis for this pension reform, you are completely wrong, because you are explicitly going to make it a one-way street. Nowhere in the draft will the Pension Committee itself be allowed to take initiatives on pension reform. Even in the advisory role, the report of the Pension Committee provided for a much more extensive role for this Pension Committee. The draft law will involve the Committee for advice on dossiers entrusted to it by the Government Agreement. So we already know that the area in which this committee will be allowed to work is limited to the coalition agreement. If we include the coalition agreement, the following elements must be taken into account: the procedures for raising the statutory retirement age, the phasing-out of the diploma bonus for the calculation of the pension amount, the modernisation of the family dimension and the reform of the derived rights. We all know that decisions have already been taken by this government and that this Pension Committee has not been consulted, because it has not yet existed. The strange thing is that the report of the Pension Committee had pointed this out and warned. I quote one of the conditions that it sets out: 'We must not wait until the decision-making process on the reform is complete before we set up a Knowledge Centre for Pensions and a National Pension Committee. This should be done quickly, both for the sake of building up scientific and technical expertise and the involvement of the social partners. The pension committee has therefore already predicted in its report that the next government would not make this happen, and it has been right, Minister. Anyway, you're gonna start one now anyway. As I said, you are also running down all the proposals of the Pension Committee, not only in its decisive but even in its advisory role. Allow me to raise a number of points in this connection. Firstly, both the government and the minister responsible and the management committees were allowed to ask questions for advice from the National Pension Committee. We do not see that in the draft law. Secondly, the promotion of convergence between the various systems, entrusted in the report of the Pension Committee to the Subcommittee on Public Sector Pension Systems, is completely ignored in the present draft law. Thirdly, on the minimum pension, the report of the Pension Commission explicitly refers to the tasks of the National Pension Committee to be set up to propose remedial measures to ensure the objectives of the minimum schemes in the various schemes. Nor can we find anything of this in the draft law. Fourthly, the objectives of the pension reform were also explicitly included in the pension committee's report in the mission description of the National Pension Committee. The National Pension Committee was entrusted with the task of examining all aspects which it considers important for social effectiveness, financial sustainability, coherence and transparency and public legitimacy. Minister, your bill is silent on this mission in all languages. Fifth, the provision of information and attracting a broad social debate on pension reforms were also forgotten in your draft. Sixthly, neither does the government mention in the draft law of the Pension Commission's plans with the so-called first pillar a, with a new supplementary pension pillar to be set up for persons in public services. However, it was explicitly the intention of the Pension Commission to have this discussed by the National Pension Committee. I can quote examples, but I shall confine myself to these six points. For my conclusion, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am certainly addressing Mrs Becq, who has explicitly referred to the Pension Committee. You should no longer refer to the Pension Committee and you should certainly not say that you are following the proposals of the Pension Committee. I have listed six elements which clearly show that the proposals of the pension committee are not being followed. The Committee on Pensions has often made it clear that this matter must be seen as a balanced whole from which one cannot simply illuminate an element. Once again, however, you take a few elements out of it, and even there, Minister, you are very limited and you are actually taking a walk with the social dialogue. Our conclusion, therefore, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is that this legislative proposal undermines the ambition of the report of the Pension Commission to build a strong body, in particular a tripartite National Pension Committee that decides on the future of all pensions, with the objective of social performance, financial sustainability, coherence and transparency and public legitimacy. This is totally lacking in the consultative body that you wish to set up together with the ministers. Minister, we will not vote for this draft law with complete conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u11	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the title of this bill does not in itself pose any problem. On the other hand, its content gives rise to a few questions. The first point I would like to highlight is what you mean by this National Pension Committee. It is a social consultation body for pension reform which will have to make social arbitrations; you say so explicitly. At the same time, this so-called social consultation body, you are muzzling it on two fronts. This body has no right of initiative but, moreover, no path other than the government's agreement can be discussed. In view of the expertise of the social partners, especially in the area of pensions, this is a form of intellectual castration – let me put it this way. You muzzle them in advance, you minimize the scope of discussions and proposals. Let us recognize that, for this government and this majority, it is a funny way of designing social consultation! Either you call it a social consultation body and you consider it to be such, or you stop making it look like social consultation, and you call it, for example, a think-tank with the social partners on the government agreement on pensions. Referring to social consultation about a group that is mozzled in advance, excuse me, this is particularly surprising on the part of certain groups of this majority! In committee, I had tabled an amendment to grant this Committee a right of initiative. The majority rejected it. This demonstrates his willingness to do anything but a genuine body of consultation. I am tabling this amendment again in plenary because I think it is essential. In addition, the experts who have been in the Pensions Commission for more than two years had instructed us to set up this type of National Pension Committee in the form of a genuine body for consultation with the social partners – something that your project does not at all foresee. On the other hand, I would like to highlight a number of weaknesses inherent in this bill. The first is that you set up an Academic Council, a National Pension Committee and a Centre of Expertise, while there are bodies of consultation that deal with the question of pensions and that you do not anticipate in any way how each other will coexist or the possible prioritization of their respective decisions and positions. Of course, this may pose some problems, including overlaps that can already be anticipated. I'll take a few examples. In this text, you explain to us that this Committee will have to look at the tenability of work, the point system, the part-time pension. I can quote from all the other bodies which are already in charge of this and which should, from a regulatory point of view, give an opinion on these issues. Consider, for example, the National Labour Council, but there are others. How are they going to articulate? Despite the many questions put in committee, there was no real answer. When you have the opinions of several bodies, without any consultation between them, you may end up with opinions that are absolutely not convergent. This will allow the government to say that they do not agree with each other and therefore the government will have to decide! It is a skilful political manoeuvre, but it is a demonstration of how you view social consultation. Another weakness is that this bill does not provide for any specific legal status for this National Pensions Committee, unlike other existing consultation bodies. The Council of State also noted this. Finally, with regard to the composition of these bodies, the representation of women could have been affirmed with greater voluntarism and clarity. The Council of State also notes that an explicit reference should have been made to the application of the Law of 20 July 1990 on the balanced distribution of men and women at the level of these various bodies. Still in terms of composition, what about the place of seniors, since they are obviously involved? They could be given even an advisory voice. I had tabled an amendment on the subject, but it was rejected; I will resubmit it in plenary. With respect to the Centre of Expertise, what is it about? You say that he is responsible for bringing together all the knowledge covered by the various pension topics. In practice, the conclusion is that this Centre of Expertise will, among other things, bring the different administrations together and ask them to work together. I find it more than challenging, minister, to see that there is a need for legislation for collaboration between the various administrations and among the various experts in this field. It is interesting to note that you need a law for public bodies to work together. In conclusion, colleagues, our group will abstain from this bill. Why not? I think that we should have moved forward as the so-called Pensions Commission had clearly called for. But in this form, you muzzle the social partners in advance and it is therefore not a consultation body. It is a missed opportunity to benefit from the important expertise of employers and trade unions in pensions and the articulation of work and pensions. It is a missed opportunity to be able to make positive progress, including with interesting initiatives and proposals outside the government agreement, a matter that requires a broad consensus among the population if we are to meet the challenge of pensions today and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u12	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the opposition is present with bitter criticism of what the government is proposing today. I'll do an intervention in two steps. First, on the Commission and then on the Committee. I shall turn to our analysis of the Commission. I have already said this in the parliamentary committee: the biggest problem in our view is the ideological homogeneity in the composition of this Committee on Pensions to which you want to give an official status by this bill presented today. We regret, as a left-wing party, that there is not a plurality of opinions in this Commission on the development of the management of our pensions in Belgium. We note that the ideological consensus in this Commission that we will have to work longer to finance our pensions is problematic. Indeed, the purpose of this Commission is to be able to deliver opinions at executive level. Allow at least a diversity of opinions in this Commission! Allow at least a political debate that takes place throughout Europe and stop selecting, in the composition of this Commission, a group of experts – I hear their expertise – who all go in the same direction! Allow me to quote from page 5 of the committee's latest report: "Despite the fact that career and age requirements will generally become stricter in the future, sufficient flexibility must remain." That's what the committee says. The Committee therefore agrees with the principle of longer working. As I said in committee, Minister, pluralism should be guaranteed in this committee. I gave you a few indications, including Patrick Deboosere, a demographer at the VUB. I am also thinking of Gilbert De Swert, expert voor het ACV, for the CSC. They are experts who come with another vision, that of saying that, possibly in Belgium, it is not necessary to work longer, that there are other avenues; for example, the wealth produced in Belgium has increased by a factor 4 since 1960, so why not devote part of this money to pensions. These demographers also note that the children of the "baby boom" arrive at the pension. In 2060, projections indicate that 14-15 per cent of our GDP should be spent on pensions. This is already the case in countries such as France and Norway. Mr Minister, we would have liked a real ideological pluralism in the composition of this committee and not just a selection of all those experts who share your vision of extending careers. A second point concerns the committee. Let me remind you of the criticisms made by the social partners. You say that there is room for manoeuvre, but you have already decided everything. What else can the Committee give an opinion on? What can the committee decide? You've already decided everything with the government. It is not only the Labour Party that says so, but also the trade unions have already communicated on this issue. In a press release, they indicated, I quote: "After the abolition of the pension bonus, after the index jump on all replacement income including pensions, after the decision to abolish the diploma bonus for pension calculations in public services, after the decision to raise the retirement age to 67 years, the government wants to set up a pension committee and we ask: what else does that committee have to say? Minister, can you tell us what the Committee really has to say? You reply that the National Pension Committee will have to decide on three points: the introduction of the points system, the definition of heavy occupation and the part-time pension. In the facts, the government has long cut the important buttons around these three points. As far as the point system is concerned, the government has already indicated that there is no longer any discussion on the decision to introduce a point system. That point system will calculate our pension completely differently. It must allow more valorisation of work, which I quote. As a left-wing party, we read this differently, because for us it means that the periods of unemployment, time credits and career breaks will be reduced. You say you want to harmonise pensions. I read that more as a gradual reduction in civil servants' pensions to the level of those in the private sector. The effects of the new financial and economic crisis will be directly passed on to pensioners. Indeed, that is what we are talking about. I note that many young people are present today in the gallery to attend the House's discussions. The proposals before us today aim to make future pensions vary according to the economic situation, the money produced in Belgium and the productivity of companies. Pensions for those who are now children and who will become part of the work environment after their education can fluctuate. This is the political issue of pension reform through a point system. The second point is the list of heavy-duty professions. That is the second point you would like to put to the Pension Committee. The government has already decided that pre-pensions for heavy trades would be remote at age 60 with a career of forty years. There is no more debate on this. You are not going to seek the opinion of the Committee, since you have decided and it will remain that way. What remains to be discussed is who carries out a heavy occupation. The fact is, Minister, and that is the foundation of the debate, that more and more professions are becoming difficult in our country. More and more jobs are becoming heavy in our society. Should we consider that being a teacher is one of them? Of course! It is only necessary to be in classes of twenty to twenty-five students to realize this. Work in the iron and steel industry is a heavy occupation, as is work in Caterpillar or in hospitals. In an economy which is the second most productive in Europe and the fourth in the world, more and more activities are becoming heavy trades. These people are tired of working. The social debate in which we are participating today is not about reserving an exception to certain professions. We'll have an opportunity to talk earlier about the police officers. The question is, today, in one of the most productive economies in the world, to give rest to the elders who desire it and to allow young people to take their place in the world of work. As is said in many demonstrations: "old people at rest, young people at work". That is the ideological question that is being asked at the moment! I note, Minister, that in this regard the Committee you want to formalize has no room for negotiation to discuss an extension of the number of heavy trades. Mr. Minister, you will understand that we regret that the National Pension Committee does not have more room for negotiation and that we deplore the ideologically homogeneous composition of the Committee. Finally, with regard to the general philosophy of your reform, I would point out that, as a left-wing party, we obviously disapprove of it. Do I have to remind you that in a country with more than 600,000 unemployed workers, we must be able to leave room for young people? In fact, yesterday, the Plan Bureau would invoke the fact that extending working time would lead to a non-reduction of unemployment. In other words, it has a clear implication for unemployment, especially for young people. I would therefore like to hear from the minister on this matter. Indeed, for weeks or even months, the Liberals claim that the measure will have no impact. If we listen to them, with a magic wand, the longer the careers of the elders will be, the more work will be done for the young. But no one has yet shown it. Economically, you'll have to explain it to me again. Nevertheless, it is considered by the Liberals to be a truth that is told to us by pseudo-arguments. I would like to reiterate that yesterday the Planning Office made it clear that there was a link between the increase or stagnation of unemployment and the extension of working time. To conclude, Minister, I will make a wish. I ask you to give way to a real negotiation with the social partners; get out of the liberal carcan which has the consequence of prolonging even more a crisis situation which leads more and more workers to become increasingly exhausted, to find themselves in a burn-out situation, to no longer have energy to work while their children are waiting to find a job. Minister, you can still step back. I am not convinced that you will listen to me and that the parties of your majority will agree with this proposal, but I hope that the social movement will make you step back.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u13	Thank you, Mr Hedebouw. I assume that the list of speakers is exhausted and give the floor to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I refer in part to the committee's excellent report and to the answers I have been able to give to the questions put in the Committee on Social Affairs, where we have been debating this issue for several hours. I will note first of all that I hear, on the one hand, that the government does not follow enough or depart too much from the Pension Reform Commission 2020-2040. On the other hand, other members of the opposition say that the Pension Reform Commission 2020-2040 is too copying the government reform. I don't know who's right. I can simply tell you that in our country, it is always Parliament and government that take political initiatives, pass laws and enforce those laws when they have been passed. It's important to remind him today. It is true that the report of the Pension Reform Commission 2020-2040 is the main source of inspiration for the pension reform we are conducting. I will reply to my excellent colleague, Frédéric Daerden, that it is of course a question of supporting the reform to be carried out. This is indeed the term used: "supporting the reform of pensions which must be carried out". I don't see exactly what other semantics we could use today. It is not a question of supporting a reform of another object. It is a question of supporting pension reform. You seem surprised, but that's what this is about. I'll confirm that. The question of whether or not to undertake pension reform is no longer so much to be decided today. Everyone agrees on this. This is not the subject of today's discussion. This was discussed during the presentation of the policy note. There was a consensus that reform was necessary, but I hear that some believe it is not up to Parliament or the government to carry it out. It's a real point of divergence between us! For my part, a supporter of democratic institutions, I think it is Parliament and the government that have the task of achieving this reform. The pension reform is a reform as provided for in the government agreement. This pension reform is inspired by the Commission's view on pension reform 2020-2040 but does not follow this view literally. Otherwise, the government will be redundant. The decisions are still taken by Parliament and the government. The legislator approves the laws and the government implements them. Reforms are not currently determined by experts, however expert they may be. The task of an expert is to place things in context, evaluate them, and make proposals. The task of a political mandator is to take decisions and take responsibility for one's own choices. Whatever they may and whatever they may claim, I assure everyone of my will to cooperate intelligently and in good understanding with the experts. I repeat, the Pension Reform Commission is our main source of inspiration. She claims that we need to lengthen careers and work a little longer. All are unanimous on this – Mr Hedebouw recalled that all experts are moving in the same direction. I find that rather reassuring. Mr. Daerden reiterated the need to address financial sustainability. Like him, I think we need to care about the social performance of the system. That is the purpose of the reform that we are putting in place: to financially support the system so that it will be effective for the generations that will follow us. Ms. Fonck, with respect to the place of seniors, I am obviously very concerned about the Seniors Advisory Council, which I met again this week. They also wanted to thank me, because they feel that my firm and I, in particular, have excellent relationships with the Seniors Advisory Council and that they are very pleased with the contacts we have with them. The National Pension Committee is likely to include seniors in the process of developing this reform at certain times. That seems quite natural to me. With regard to the position of women, I confirm what I have said in committee. Of course, the legislation in force will be applied to the advisory committees, since the National Pensions Committee is an advisory body and as such, the Act of 20 July 1990 to promote the balanced presence of men and women in bodies with advisory competence will apply, in particular Articles 2 and 2a. I recall article 2 of the Act, which states that "whenever one or more terms of office in an advisory body are to be granted following a nomination procedure, each body responsible for the nomination of candidates shall be required to nominate at least one man and one woman for each term of office". Double lists will therefore be presented. Article 2a states that no more than two thirds of the members of an advisory body shall be of the same sex. So I can reassure you about the representation of women on the National Pension Committee. I'll pay attention to it. Some also consider that this will not really be social consultation. I hear that we are calling for it and when we present a structure that allows social consultation, we are no longer in agreement. This reminds me of the capricious children who cry out for a piece of cake and then refuse to eat it when they are served. It's a little easy! I call on everyone to consider that the aim of the National Pensions Committee is to organise social consultation. The National Pension Committee will have the task of conducting social consultations on pension proposals. Our legal system currently has no consultative body with the power to decide on the three pension systems of employees, self-employed persons and civil servants. The existing consultative bodies are only competent for a particular regime. The National Pension Committee will be the social dialogue on pension reform. The primary aim is to enable this social consultation. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to reiterate my conviction that it is necessary to succeed in this reform. Today, the purpose of the bill before you is to organize the structure and structures, together with the Centre of Expertise and the Academic Council, to articulate all the necessary elements, in particular to carry out social consultation on the tenibility of the trades, the partial pension and the point system, which is the fundamental reform of the system. There is no doubt about our will. If we have opted for tripartite consultation, it is precisely for the sake of efficiency, so that all parties are represented and this dialogue can be established on a permanent basis. I thank you already for your attention to the creation of these bodies, which will enable real social consultation to be carried out for an absolutely essential pension reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u15	Mr President, Minister, I have heard you very well. I repeat what you said about social consultation. You tell us that when you give a piece of cake to the opposition, she refuses it. Minister, it is not a piece of cake that you are offering us today in your bill, particularly on how you view social consultation, it is a spread of dry bread! You will therefore easily understand that we do not agree with your vision of social consultation, with the way in which you consider that it is your right to muzzle it in advance, to prevent the social partners from taking any initiative and from giving opinions on ideas that are not part of the government agreement. Minister, excuse me for repeating this to you, this is not social consultation. It's called it, but it's a "bidon" social concertation! This is therefore a missed opportunity, even though pension reform is an important project to which the expertise of the social partners could bring real added value.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u16	Mr President, I will respond to the Minister's answers. First of all, the minister makes me smile when he claims that I'm surprised that we're talking about pension reform. We misunderstood each other. Anyway, you misunderstood me. My problem is not that we are talking about "pension reform", but that the system in place is supposed to support pension reform, as if it were the only possible. The reform that was conceived by the negotiators, and you inherited its implementation, is presented to us as if it were the only solution to ensure financial and social sustainability. When I talk about social sustainability, you talk about "social performance". This already reflects a significant difference in mindset. Secondly, I share your view that it is not the experts who decide, but the parliament, while the government decides on certain other measures and implements them. I totally agree. However, we are here to decide by being perfectly enlightened. In this case, it seems to me that you have introduced a system whose lighting is totally biased. Finally, with regard to social consultation, like Mrs Fonck, I would like to stress your expression "carrious children who refuse the part of the cake they are offered". When the cake is poisoned, it is normal for the child to refuse to eat it! I register totally falsely against your expression, which is a little vexatious. I'm going back to mine: this is a Canada Dry concertation. The Minister's responses further reinforce my position.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u17	Minister, I regret that you have not answered anything on the question of the composition of this Commission. You are glad that the opinions are quite unanimous. I think it's a problem. You're asking for a commission, you're even giving it an official status with today's bill. You want to be advised. You are right to say that the decision is up to Parliament, not the government. I do not understand why, in terms of advice to the government and Parliament, you do not accept a little more pluralism. I regret this soft consensus that we must work longer at all costs. I regret that you did not reply to that question. Secondly, at the level of consultation, I am not going to turn around the pot, you know very well that the trade union organisations consider that the margins of manoeuvre are more or less zero. It is not only the left-wing political parties that criticize you on this. The purpose of your consultation is simple: to be able to impose this pension measure which the trade unions do not want. You thus hope not to trigger a new union resistance to a completely unpopular measure in the population. You feel it around you; you see that people are disgusted with your proposal to make them work longer and longer. You are constantly using rational pseudo-arguments: "Yes, you have to". Today I would have wanted to have a government that is at least open to a bell sound: "No, you mustn't". Other leads are possible. Other pension reforms are possible. Fatally, you will not be surprised, minister, that you did not really convince us to vote for your bill. As such, you will not count on our two votes this afternoon in the vote. But I don't think it's gonna bother you. You can, however, count on our two voices outside this Parliament to continue the fight against your pension reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u18	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u19	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1022/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1022/4) Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in The title in French has been amended by the committee in draft law establishing a National Pensions Committee, a Centre of Expertise and an Academic Council". The draft law has 20 articles. The bill has 20 clauses. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u20	• 7 - Frédéric Daerden cs (1022/5) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u21	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Articles 2 and 3. Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 4 to 20.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u22	******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u23	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u24	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u25	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be very brief on this draft law. The government included in the government agreement the idea of ending preferential ages, but in the short term a problem naturally arose from the judgment of the Constitutional Court. This is the result of a measure taken by the previous government which has caused a great deal of uncertainty among police staff. The draft law will take a necessary step here to remove that uncertainty. The alternative would have been the immediate abolition of preferential regimes. Making such a hasty move wouldn't be a wise idea. As we have said in committee, like a number of colleagues from the other majority parties, we think it is important that the arrangement is adopted, but that it is also made clear that it is a provisional arrangement of an extinct nature, which is not a preliminaries to the final solution. We assume that the final solution found in this case is in accordance with the coalition agreement. In doing so, we are working towards the alignment of systems, with solidarity across generations and across systems, towards the development of a generally accepted, sustainable pension scheme. My group will therefore vote in favour of the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u26	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already had the opportunity to express my group's reluctance to accept the text we are discussing this morning. During the vote in committee, we abstained. The same will be true earlier. Let me explain the reasons for this. First of all, we deplore the extreme fragility of this text in terms of law. Like you, we want a just solution for the police officers affected by the decision of the Constitutional Court last July. Like the police, we want a strong and lasting solution rather than a transitional measure. Like the Council of State, which, in its opinion, draws attention to the fact that the preliminary draft fails to comply with articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution, we want an unassailable solution in law. But your project does not provide a lasting solution; even more serious, it does not respond to the objections of the Council of State. We cannot therefore support a text that appears to be just a rustin, a DIY, a provision destined to suffer the same fate as the one it seeks to replace. The second reason is probably more pragmatic. [[It relates to the staffing implications.]] One can only give reason to those agents who wish to assert their rights through the window of opportunity that this fragile text offers them. There are about 3,000 police officers, while there are already 3,500 police officers missing. How can we compensate for these departures when your government has, to date, found only sufficient resources to recruit 800 new candidates per year. For a government whose ambition is to put more blue on the street, the contrast is singular. Finally, let me incise in the light of the current situation. This text masks another much more important issue, namely the comprehensive reform of the police pension system. In the press this morning, the Minister of the Interior announces a great deal of agreement when, as far as I know, union consultation is only planned today. According to him, this agreement concerns a non-activity from the age of 59. Since he was able to express himself in the press on this subject, he would have much to gain from speaking before this Parliament, in particular about the financing of years of non-activity, the impact on the workforce, in particular on the categories of staff who are not considered to be heavy trades or on local finances. Here's the incise. To sum up my group's abstention, Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, despite the concern that we share with the majority to find a solution to the problem, it is not possible for us to support a text tainted with unconstitutionality which does not solve the substantive situation of the officers and which does not open a door to the overall settlement of the issue of police pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u27	Mr President, the Minister of Pensions, ladies and gentlemen, the bill that is before our Parliament today concerns several thousand policemen from our country. As a reminder, in 2001, police reform introduced preferential retirement ages for members of the operational framework of the integrated police force. These are exceptions, but they were still guaranteed in 2011 by the Public Sector Pensions Act. However, following an appeal by a trade union organisation, on 10 July 2014, the Constitutional Court took a decision that is well known to all of us today. As soon as our government was formed, the majority's partners assumed their responsibilities on the subject. They chose to include this issue, which is legally unstable for police officers, in the government agreement with the ambition to respond quickly. No subject is simple. This one is no more than others! What we can see, minister, is that six months later, it's about to happen. This confirms, if necessary, that this government is keeping its promises and that it is keeping them in concert and in listening to union representatives and workers. Faced with the ruling of the Constitutional Court, by the voice of the Minister of Pensions, the government heard representatives of the police. We listened to them all. Some unions were talking about a political decision of the Constitutional Court. Others imagined that the federal government would hide behind this stop to save money. All these assumptions are now to be cast into oblivion. On the contrary, the draft adopted by the Social Affairs Committee some ten days ago makes it possible to correct a difficult social and human situation in which thousands of police officers would find themselves. We're talking about 2,500 people! Written in line with government ambition, the project meets two objectives: social justice and reform of career paths and careers. Social justice because the Court's judgment, no doubt unwittingly, made a distinction between similar applications for pension, penalizing in a way the police officers who had chosen to continue their work in the service of public security, a choice which, you will agree, is to respect rather than sanction. With this project, police officers are handed over on an equal footing in the face of their pension rights and thus, while respecting the Court's judgment, social justice is ensured. The second objective is achieved with the bill; career reform is promoted consistently. Police officers who are in the conditions for leaving the pension on 10 July 2015 and who have not made the choice to take their pension at the age that was precisely authorized but a little later, in order to be able to continue working, will be able to continue to receive a pension of preferential ages. Justice and Consistency Reformers! It is true that the government agreement set the tone by giving priority to security policy. Achieving this priority also requires responding to the particular social situations of police officers. With this project, they have been heard, agreed, and the right decisions are made. For all these reasons of social justice, of respect for the workers who have chosen to work longer, this project, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, deserves unanimous support from our Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u28	Mr President, I agree with my fellow Members. With the present draft law, we want to remove the concerns that have arisen following the ruling of the Constitutional Court of 10 June 2014. It is important that we do so. It actually means that the existing regime is confirmed. The adoption of the draft before us today does not mean that we will remove the concerns of the other police officers or the other people who meet the criteria for heavy-duty professions. It has just been said, following the establishment of the National Pension Committee, that it is important that there should be a general regime for the heavy professions and clear criteria so that everyone who meets the criteria can be treated in a similar way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u29	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the government has been trying for six months to find a solution to the ruling of the Constitutional Court on pensions. We heard this morning that there would be a solution for the police officers. As usual, the social partners will only be consulted afterwards. After all, I have heard that they will have the solution tonight. It is good that the government is considering transitional measures. As Mrs Becq has just said, that is good, because a number of people are living in great uncertainty. However, this draft law does not remove this uncertainty, since it institutionalizes a new uncertainty. It provides a solution for a number of people. We agree that there is a transitional measure for them. However, the design again creates discrimination. I am not saying that, as the Council of State clearly states in its opinion. I have rarely read such a negative opinion that this draft law once again constitutes a great deal of discrimination. Minister, what will you do if you return to the Constitutional Court? The draft law will, if necessary, be destroyed again, which, of course, increases uncertainty considerably. What should have happened is, first of all, that the government had worked out a total solution for all policemen and not for part of them. In addition, it should have worked on the transitional measures that are working towards this overall solution. Once again, you haven't done that. Social dialogue is also once again totally flawed in the dossier. Now one is consulted, the other is consulted. However, there is no general consultation. Here too, the draft has not been preceded by any general social consultation. Minister, we find it scandalous that, with such an opinion from the Council of State, this government is again making such a proposal to Parliament. You can't do that. We are, of course, in favour of transitional measures to remove uncertainty. However, this draft does not remove uncertainty, quite the contrary. Moreover, there is only one solution for some of the people. There is no solution for the people of the former judicial police, not to mention the people of the local police. For them, the uncertainty remains very high. Mrs Becq, I have to say once again that you have a number of things to say, but that CD&V swallows what this government is proposing and will also approve this draft. We are also in favour of criteria for the heavy professions which are very clear to every man and woman working in this country, but we do not want to take a particle out of it and only increase uncertainty among other people. Mr Minister, because this is a partial and small solution for 2 500 people, we will abstain. We strongly urge that a definitive solution be found for all those who are in that situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u30	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will go right to the point because the essential difficulty of this bill is obviously pointed out by the Council of State. This draft maintains a distinction which is considered unconstitutional by the Council of State in a very clear way. His argument is particularly strong. This text therefore contains legal uncertainty. It's always the same when you do DIY. You never know how long this will last. When will this fine legal scaffolding collapse by the weight of a ruling of the Constitutional Court? No one can say that and one can only hope that there is no recourse. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let us acknowledge that this is not a good match with the principle of legal certainty. That being said, it must be acknowledged – I come back – that this text also makes it possible to redress what seems to be an injustice to some members of the operational framework of the integrated police, even if it is clumsy, as I have just explained, in relation to the opinion of the Council of State and the fact that it maintains a distinction that is considered unconstitutional. Furthermore, as I have said quite often in committee, you are coming up with a solution which is very partial because a whole section of 'police' files and everything concerning the system of career ends and non-activity is still under discussion. It was possible to have a comprehensive solution since an agreement had already been reached last September. At the time, the Minister of the Interior was Melchior Wathelet. You are still in negotiations this week, if I am not mistaken, particularly with regard to the career plan and non-activity. We hope and plead that these consultations will lead to a positive outcome because what is being settled for some members of the integrated police force today is not for many other police officers who are still waiting for a solution. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would say that the baby should not be thrown away with bath water. Despite the many shortcomings I have just mentioned, this text repairs an injustice. We will therefore vote in favour of this text, but if I may, while waiting for you at the turn, for all the police files that are still under negotiation. This text offers only a solution for some. There are still a large number of situations and questions for which answers have to be found.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u31	Mr. Chair, Minister, it is important to briefly recall the circumstances that led us to this situation. On the basis, it was the previous government's decision to extend the age of early pensions and pre-pensions with an exception that had actually been granted for certain occupations: railway workers, military personnel, police officers. Then comes this constitutional decision that breaks this preferential regime for the police. The bill in question deals with the transitional regime – according to figures – for about 2,500 agents, i.e. those who meet the conditions as of July 10, 2015, without solving the problem for all those who will no longer be able to benefit from this preferential regime, i.e. 40,000 police officers. I'd like you to confirm these numbers. Finally, a small part of the persons concerned are concerned with problems raised by the Council of State and distinctions that would be unconstitutional. I assume you will answer us on this subject, in addition to the figures I have submitted to you. Among all these distinctions, is it not better to reconsider the whole of the rules on pre-pensions? In this respect, the PTB has a clear vision, but quite different from that of the majority parties and perhaps other opposition parties as well. Indeed, we believe that we need to be able to free the elderly who have worked well enough, especially in difficult occupations like those we are talking about today. It is necessary to be able to grant pre-pension to those who wish and to those who work in difficult occupations at the age of 56. Is the police profession one? Yes. Thus, even the government considers that "the regulations also take into account the specific nature of the police profession. The circumstances in which police officers must work are, at all times, potentially dangerous or extremely dangerous: the psycho-social burden, permanent stress, the physical requirements imposed as well as the absolute availability day and night, as referred to in Articles 125 and 126 of the Act of 7 December 1998 establishing an integrated police force, etc." Since you recognize the persistence of this profession, I consider that, for all the 40,000 police officers – and not just the 2,500 – a pre-pension will have to be granted at an age that we believe must be at the age of 56.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u32	Mr President, I would just like to point out that this is a pension bill. I understand that we want to globalize the whole system, but for my part, I come with a bill that deals with pensions, not with a bill that organizes the careers of police officers. This is in fact the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior. With regard to a solution for the other police officers, consultations with the trade unions are still ongoing. As far as I'm concerned, I'm coming with a project that concerns the police. It is true that the opinion of the Council of State has been recalled, but we have responded: we aim to eliminate existing discrimination. Police officers who were able to apply for their pension before the Court's decision did not do so; they continued to work and now lose their rights. It's not acceptable, it's very unfair. Somewhere, the decision of the Constitutional Court led to discrimination, which must be acknowledged. We had forgotten all those who could have applied for their pension, with the preferential ages, who did not do so because they wanted to continue working, and who found themselves punished because they were prevented from recovering their conditions. That is the meaning of this text – that's all – to allow more than 2,000 police officers not to suffer this injustice and to be able to benefit from the old conditions. For the rest, social consultation is, of course, still under way and an agreement must be reached to organise the end of the career for police officers, between 58 and 62 years old today and, tomorrow, between 59 and 63 years old. Be aware that the government does indeed consider that the specific nature of the police profession must be taken into account in order to find the best agreement on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u33	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u34	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1023/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1023/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip045x.u35	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. That concludes the agenda for this morning's sitting. We'll retake the oral questions at 2:15 as usual. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 13 May 2015 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting on Wednesday, 13 May 2015, at 2.15 p.m.
