ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u1	Mr President, if it is possible and if my fellow Members agree, I would like to ask you to answer my question immediately after the first questions. 3625............................................................................................................................................................ After all, I note that there are not so many Members present.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u2	Okay, on the condition that I am therefore asking my question No. Thirty-six-eight-eight-eight-eight-eight-eight-eight-eight-eight.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u3	I note that we started in a good atmosphere. Let's hope we get to spend the rest of the day like this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u4	Mr President, the minister, forerunner, visionary or logical, in Wallonia, the police area of the Upper Country recently met the Borinage area to consider synergies and possible merger. I've read some good articles about this. The mayor of Hensies, who is himself a federal parliamentarian, said that areas of less than 150 police officers were not viable, and that mergers had to lead to economies of scale. I find these notions very interesting. I know that the answers will be of interest to many mayors of my region. How do you position yourself in this file? What are the guidelines for this measure? Is it a question of encouraging areas to merge or do you think there is a critical size under which the efficiency and profitability of the area can be questioned? What is the list of areas with fewer than 150 police officers? I think that the list in this country should not be long.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u5	Mr President, Minister, in order to deal with budgetary difficulties, small police areas are increasingly interested in the possibility of merging in order to develop synergies and collaborations. While economies of scale and more efficient management of resources are, of course, covered by a proposed merger, it should be borne in mind that this must be done with the main objective of providing quality service for our citizens. It is in this context, for example, that the Upper Country Police Zone is currently considering a merger with either the boraine police or the Péruwelz-Bernissart area. This Upper Country police area, which my colleague has just mentioned, is the area that I chair. As such, it is still possible to have points of agreement between PS and MR. As you can imagine, the prospect of a merger generates a multitude of practical, logistical or human resource management issues. That is why, Minister, I would have liked to know your position on this. Minister, are you willing to encourage the merger of police areas? If so, in what form? What would be the implications of a merger between two areas for federal funding? In terms of allocations, what is the benefit of merging? How would the new amount granted in the event of a merger be calculated for two zones? In addition to the financial aspect, could you tell me what the benefits of a merger would be? Of course, in the discussion that is taking place between my area and the surrounding areas, we are wondering if we are not likely, after fusion, to have a smaller allocation than the sum of our two endowments. It is this type of question that we ask ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I will send you the list, which will also be included in the report. There are categories of areas: Category 1 consists of areas with fewer than 75 staff members; Category 2 areas have between 75 and 150 members. I am now answering your other questions. In the government agreement of 9 October 2014, this passage was explicitly repeated: "In order to offer a better service to the citizen, the government will support and encourage local police areas in case of increased synergies". Under this term, we can refer to cooperation or association, cohabitation or merger agreements. There are several forms of collaboration and synergies and we want to support and encourage them, but not impose them. Following Mr. Koenraad Degroote's written question of 26 November 2014, I stated that it would be desirable for each police area to begin a thorough reflection on the benefits of a possible merger in their particular case. Generally, a merger responds to a local request and takes place on a voluntary basis. It is therefore difficult for me to comment on a size of a critical police area below which profitability and efficiency would be questioned. It is not possible to set general rules and say that a police zone must have 200 or 300 policemen or serve at least 100,000 inhabitants. Everyone has to think from their own commune and see with the neighbors. A generality in this area would not be very intelligent. I will not say that I want mergers of areas that must cover areas of 150,000 inhabitants. It's very different in Antwerp, Brussels, Eupen or Campine. It is not smart to want very simple rules in this case. The current economic context requires administrative authorities to make ever more efficient use of resources. I was a mayor of a zonal commune. The municipality corresponded to the area. The same was true of the neighbouring commune. A merger was envisaged. At that time, we know what we are giving: efficiency, proximity to the police, etc. Merging with a municipality does not yield much in scale benefits. We have a lot of disadvantages without the main advantages. The size must be sufficient to have the scale advantages that compensate for the fact that the police are not directly in charge. It's always a balance. In this regard, and in a search for the efficiency of local police management and organization bodies, collaboration often brings a number of benefits. In the case of a merger, these benefits can be found in a number of areas: reduction of burdens, increased expertise in the execution of missions, better collaboration with the Federal Police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The reform of judicial districts since 1 April 2014 offers, of course, opportunities in terms of potential new partners for municipalities wishing to form a new entity. In the light of the above, I am of course in favour of a merger and would offer the maximum support of my services, which are responsible for the effective accompaniment of the project, including its legal formalisation, to the areas located there. Over the past year, we have allocated an additional amount to the police areas affected by the three recent mergers, and we will not fail to take into account the other mergers in progress or in the future, when considering this issue with my partners in the government. There are 144 police areas with fewer than 150 members, including 40 category 1 areas I mentioned, and 104 category 2 areas I mentioned. I'll give you the list. In financial terms, the aim is not to save areas through mergers. Indeed, mergers will not lead to savings. At the very least, staffing is added. It is also a matter of providing legal support for the implementation of mergers. Therefore, there are no savings projects in the endowments in the event of a merger.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u7	Minister, thank you for these specific answers. I am not here to throw flowers, but I appreciate the fact that we are in a logic of encouragement, of freedom. It has been heard in your answer, it is not a question of imposing something, it is a question of doing so for those who might see it as a particular interest in terms of economies of scale. I think this is a reassuring response to costs because there are no pitfalls in future allocations for areas that could, for various reasons, be merged. I will read your answers carefully and will pass them on to the main stakeholders.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u8	Minister, I understand that you do not intend to impose a merger or limit. This was said in the corridors of the Ministry of the Interior at a certain time. I have been on this commission for a number of years and it has already been understood that below 150 police officers, an area would not be technically viable. You confirm that this is not the case. You're talking about logistical help. What can be expected for two small areas that do not have a lot of staff with regard to the practical study of fusion from a technical point of view?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u9	There is a working group that can make technicians available. As I said, we cannot give very precise instructions. But if a mayor or a police zone thinks about a merger, they can be helped in their reflection. For example, what can be the ideal size? These questions must be asked in the case of no case. I think the federal government can provide you with the information to help you make a decision, not to force you to do so. It's about sharing our respective experiences. This is something I want to develop: help to local authorities who are thinking about the ideal size for their area and their commune. This is indeed a very difficult exercise. Normally, you do it once. We at the federal level do it several times. Exchange of experience can be useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u10	Economies of scale are quite obvious, since only one special accountant, one zone secretary, etc., is needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u11	From a certain date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u12	Yes. At the victim service, the assistant is pregnant. So I have to replace her. If you have a staff with four assistants, it is financially easier to compensate for the illness of one of them. My area includes nine commissioners. Four of them became so by the red carpet, i.e. automatically. In the neighbouring area, of identical size, there are four. So, the point of merging is to have a team of commissioners that shrinks with unreplaced retirements. You also have the problem of the heads of bodies. When you merge two structures, the difficulty is that there are two leaders. In the end, you must have only one. Psychologically, it's very hard. But when you have, on the one hand, one head acting and, on the other hand, another head who has to go to the pension, it helps. As you say, we have to look at it on a case-by-case basis. We will not fail to solicit federal services to receive logistical assistance based on what you explained to us today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u13	I'd like to clarify something else. The only limit I impose on mergers is that each area must be within the same fire zone. Do you understand me? A police zone should not be located in two or three fire areas. Otherwise, it would result in too complex a mosaic. I am not saying that the police zones must be identical, but that each must be located in the same fire zone. Today, this is not quite the case. I can't force things by law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u14	It's a wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u15	Yes, otherwise we'll complicate things in the long run.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u16	I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u17	Ah, are you concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u18	Yes, there are two areas. One – the Beloeil – is located in the same emergency zone, while the other – Peruwelz-Bernissart – is in the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u19	So, you want to take the other direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u20	I don't know yet. We're talking to both of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u21	In order to be correct, I must inform you that we will not include in the record the documents containing the numbers and lists you have given. On the other hand, we will photocopy them and distribute them to each member.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u22	Mr President, Minister, during the last recruitment for the Federal Police Emergency Call Centre in Liège in 2012, the main qualitative requirement was French/German bilingualism, in order to receive a bonus. It is my responsibility that the officers recruited for these posts have, among other things, moved from the local police to the federal police, which is logical since the emergency call centre is under federal supervision. However, recruited officers no longer receive the bilingualism bonus to which they were previously entitled as local police officers. It would appear that the problem lies in the fact that only six officers within the emergency call centre are eligible for this premium. It is also up to me that the quota is exhausted, so we can no longer expand it. Minister, my question is very simple. In order to avoid any form of discrimination, could you not take the steps to grant this bonus to all the agents of the same service, who have passed this test and have the ability to know both French and German?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u23	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, the organic table 2ter provides for seven bilingual FFG functions, namely French as the mother tongue and German as the second language, for the Information and Communication Centre of Liège (CIC). Already in 2009, it was proposed through a draft decree to consider all functions within the CIC of Liège as bilingual functions which, therefore, opened the right to the bilingualism bonus. This draft order, however, did not obtain the approval of the then Minister of the Public Service as part of the administrative control. In 2012, the Public Service agreement on this draft Order was again requested, this time supported by the advice of the Standing Committee on Linguistic Control. The new application also did not receive an agreement from the Public Service. However, annexes 15 and 16 of the implementing order for police personnel will have to be adapted in any case following the optimisation of the Federal Police and, in the context of this procedure, will have to be subject to administrative control again. My administration is working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u24	Minister, thank you for your answer. I can hear you well, but that's all but the first time I've asked this kind of question in relation to the department concerned. It would be important to know the time frame within which the issue could be considered. As part of an emergency call service, a person who calls the police in Eupen has the right to speak in his or her own language. The same applies to emergency calls from centres 112. Similarly, everyone has the right to be heard in his or her own language, including German.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u25	Mr Minister, I have a very brief question about the appointment of the Zone Commander. Of course there are other hot irons in the fire department, but the zone commander is the one who has to lead the difficult exercises and the whole operation of zone formation. He is an important figure to put all this well on track. The terms of office are laid down in the Royal Decree of 26 March 2014, which regulates the function profile of the commander in the rescue zone. They are also known: to be a member of the fire department, to hold a diploma A, to have a certificate of chief of duty, to have a number of years of useful experience and also to have at least the degree of captain. This last condition was a specific problem in our zone, zone East. There is now a legal procedure before the Council of State. Apart from this problem, I wanted to ask you the following. We consider the conditions to be fairly strict, in that sense you may contradict me if very few firefighters have applied for office. Do you know of any other problems in other areas? An Acting Zone Commander had to be appointed with us in view of the pending procedure. That is not always an obvious situation. Do you consider the selection criteria set out in the 2014 Royal Decree to be too strict? Do you think any adjustments should be made? You yourself indicated a few weeks ago that you wanted to focus more on the management capacities of these people. I fully agree with that. We ourselves have made that determination within our area: perhaps it should not be by definition that the best firefighter should lead hundreds of people, although of course he must have eaten cheese from the matter. For someone who has hundreds of people, often in a voluntary framework, management capacities are certainly very important. That is why I would have liked to know whether there are any changes and whether there are any problems in other areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u26	Mrs Gabriels, the selection criteria laid down in the Royal Decree of 26 March 2014 and which you quoted in part, are not really problematic when I look at all the areas and when I make the global evaluation. The first selection of a zone commander is carried out in two phases. First there must be search within the zone; in the absence of candidates within the zone, candidates from outside the zone may also be eligible. For subsequent selections, internal and external candidates are eligible at the same time. The conditions are therefore adapted to the new degrees and courses. We make a distinction between, on the one hand, the setting up of a zone and the designation of a zone commander and, on the other hand, the succession of a zone commander who is failing. In the latter case, the conditions will be adapted to new degrees and new courses. So that's the next round. On 1 January 2015, 28 of 34 areas became genuine relief zones. In 19 of those 28 there is an effective zone commander. In the nine others there are now acting zone commanders, these are Taxandria in Antwerp; South-West in Limburg; East, Flemish Ardennes and Meetjesland in East Flanders; Liège 1 and Liège 6 in Liège; Nage and Dinaphi in Namur. In these nine zones there is currently an Acting Zone Commander. However, I do not think this is entirely correct, because the area I know best, namely Rand, around Antwerp, also has an acting zone commander. So it's ten out of 28. The selection criteria set out in the Royal Decree of 26 March 2014 are, you said, strictly yes, but they are not problematic. Indeed, the number of people potentially able to meet the conditions is not very wide, but not all selection procedures have yet been completed. Usually the selection procedure has been completed with candidates internally from the zone and a second selection round has been indicated. The question was whether or not we should change that royal decision. I want to evaluate this after the second round of selection, to look at the idea of mobility. I agree with you that the best firefighter is not the best in command. In that sense, I do not think that a zone commander should necessarily live in the zone in order to be a good zone commander. I would like to make the evaluation of this royal decision and its impact on the ground once that second selection round is completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. For the record, I have nothing against acting commanders. I've been acting mayor myself for six years, so that word doesn't play a big role. It's just about the content. For a zone it is important that one can quickly, with the right people at the helm, the start-up or the effective start-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u28	Minister, as you know, the Protocol 235a of the 2008 Police Negotiating Committee provided for the government to introduce the concept of functional remuneration. As everyone knows, the aim was to reduce the number of allowances and the number of allowances and to replace them with a basically baraemic remuneration. The current government agreement also states that the number of allowances should be simplified within a closed envelope, taking into account the budgetary framework. You yourself referred to this in your policy statement and your policy paper. Our party has long been asking for a functional remuneration. The current system of fees is indeed too complex, too opaque, and is also too sensitive to a number of abuses. Certain functions are also very difficult to fulfil because of the Statute. Think, for example, of the function of Chief Constable. Under your predecessor, a working group on Functional Compensation continued its work. She also stated that it was a complex and delicate exercise, where it sometimes runs on eggs. The aim was to reduce the number of allowances and allowances and to move towards a more modern remuneration policy. I have some questions. Firstly, what is the concrete state of play in relation to this working group? Are these work still in progress or has the working group completed its report? What's the result? Secondly, when will we have a debate on this in Parliament? Thirdly, what concrete steps do you intend to take as a minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u29	Mrs Gabriels, I would first like to respond to the specific situation in this debate. A working group on functional remuneration has indeed worked under the previous government. There was a lack of consensus with the syndicated partners on what could be understood as functional remuneration and how that project should be addressed. There was also the absence of the two presidents of the local and federal police, because Mr Simonis dropped out and was not replaced by the permanent committee and because Mr Van Branteghem unfortunately died in 2014. For these reasons, this working group has not met for more than a year. Among other things, the working group drew up an overall figure of the extent of all allowances and allowances. In the meantime, the social secretariat of the integrated police was asked to keep this data up-to-date. In fact, in the current coalition agreement, I quote: 'the number of allowances and allowances will be simplified and, within a closed envelope, transformed into a modern and functional remuneration scheme, in which the degree of responsibility is one of the determining factors.' I remember that when I presented my policy statement, there was a lot of criticism. The two main criticisms were that I took far too much action to achieve all these things in five years' time, and that I had already started all these things. Same thing happens here. I shall be very clear on this point, and perhaps it will be discussed in the course of the question: we need to finish the pension debate first, then I want to have the core task debate and finally I want to start the debate on functional remuneration. I can't put all the debates together. I have a clear schedule: to finish the pension debate first and then to have the core task debate. The task force has done its job, the consultations are now in progress. I hope to submit a proposal for a decision to the government before the summer of 2015, after which the dossier will come to Parliament. After I have done that work and so after the summer of 2015, I want to start the functional remuneration, so that we can have that debate here in the Chamber at the end of 2015 or early 2016. However, it is not wise to throw all the debates together. I've chosen a particular order. That's an honest answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u30	Minister, I understand that not everything can be achieved in five months' time. However, we already have a view of the timing that you set out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u31	Interpellation No. Mrs Pas 31 has been postponed. Interpellation No. Mrs Pas 33 has also been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Pas 3359 has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u32	Mr. President, Minister, the government has imposed significant budgetary restrictions on the federal government: minus 12% for staff, minus 20% for operating expenses and minus 29% for investments. No service is spared: neither the federal police nor the civil protection in charge of the security of citizens! I therefore ask myself the question of the sustainability of civil protection. Will it still be able to carry out its missions effectively? Yet in the government agreement, you have committed yourself to – I quote – "maintaining federal civil protection, which will provide specialized services under a federal command and which will be headed by the governor or the minister of the interior (...) without leading to a full effective integration of civil protection within the relief zones", not without specifying, it is true that "the government will study the rationalization of the number of posts", which generally means a reduction of staff! And you added that "The administrative and financial status of civil protection staff will be adapted (...) a new working regime will be negotiated with a view to the optimal use of staff", which is also subject to interpretation, since often "adaptation of status" means "detrication of status". Minister, emergency preparedness officers are concerned about their future and, above all, about the sustainability of emergency preparedness. Concerns reinforced by the dark cuts to the budget which no longer allow any replacement and thus a reduction of operational staff. Moreover, it seems that no text is being prepared in your cabinet for the implementation of the commitments made during the formation of your government. Minister, what about it? Can you assure us that, despite budgetary constraints, civil protection is still fully operational? What about the maintenance of the current settlements? I am thinking in particular of the implementation of Ghlin. What is the status of implementation of your commitments? The government agreement also provides for cooperation agreements between civil protection and emergency and fire areas. What is the status of implementation of this aspect of your agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u33	Mr President, Mr Thiébaut, I confirm that the Civil Protection Units have always been able to fulfil all the tasks assigned to them. Since the entry into force of the Royal Decree of 10 June 2014, in which the missions of the civil protection units are clearly defined, it is planned to concentrate future investments in the purchase or replacement of the equipment necessary for the performance of these missions. In this context, I would like to point out that at the end of December the Council of Ministers released 75 % of the investment appropriations. As a result, I have been able to identify more resources than in previous years. Your remark that no text specifying the provisions of the agreement would circulate, is not correct. I intend to put a dossier on the agenda of the Council of Ministers soon, in which I will present my vision and a plan of action for civil protection reform. I will not just make a few proposals on civil protection missions, but I will also seek an agreement in principle in order to be able to effectively reorganize the services on the ground. Implementation will lead, on the one hand, to a new plan for dispersal of operational units in Belgium. Consideration will be given to new synergies with the areas, difficult budgetary prospects and adaptation of civil protection missions. The position of the Ghlin unit will of course also be discussed. A new and adapted administrative statute will be drafted for both professional and voluntary civil protection officers. As previously reported, civil protection has been forgotten in the civil security reform process and efforts in this area have been limited to fire service reform. This is a gross mistake that I would like to correct. I believe that this excerpt from the government agreement receives all the attention it deserves. I think that with the reform of fire services and rescue zones, we had forgotten to involve a vision for civil protection. We are currently thinking and discussing this issue. The heads of operational civil protection units are currently visiting the relief areas to meet officials and negotiate collaborative agreements. An agreement has already been concluded with the rescue areas of Luxembourg; another is in the process of being concluded with the West Flanders I rescue zone and others are being finalized. Pending a convention, I have asked the civil protection operational units to respond favourably to requests for the reinforcement of relief zones, provided that their resources are not allocated to a specialized mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u34	Minister, I hear we're probably going to review the settlements. Has an analysis methodology already been planned? How will this reorganisation of the settlements be envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u35	We have a vision. We are currently working with all the actors involved. As soon as this vision is a little lit up, I will appear before the government with a project to get its agreement. Then I will be able to come and discuss it in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u36	I will therefore be able to raise a new question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u37	I'll show you when you can put it down.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u38	Mrs Temmerman's questions may be dealt with later. She is currently asking questions in another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u39	Mr President, Minister, at the plenary session on 19 March, I asked you about the implementation of the twelve measures announced by the government in the course of January. There was a timing and a budget, but I wanted to know what budget you were going to spend on specific requests for municipalities such as Molenbeek or Verviers, but also, in a more global way, for police areas that had to make certain arrangements regarding the existing threat. We have seen, in broad terms, what the government has decided in the context of fiscal adjustment; this remains a little blurred in our mind as we are talking about an envelope for security measures. Is this specifically dedicated to your services? Does this also concern justice, intelligence services, OCAM? In preparing the budget, these services stressed their lack of resources. I know that we will have more advanced discussions in the debates on budgetary adjustment, but I think you can already give a signal about a global envelope. You have announced bills, but time is beginning to grow long. We had already tabled texts before the Paris attacks in January. I told you at the time that you could take our texts to save time and, at the end of January, we could have had legislation concerning the deprivation of nationality, the activation of the law against mercenaries, the withdrawal of identity documents from persons suspected of wanting to return to Belgium. Last week, I heard your statements about the number of people who continue to leave the country every day for Syria or Iraq. Objectively, I wonder what we're waiting for. I know that the Council of State delivered opinions, but that goes back to January, and we arrive in May. You will agree that this is slowing down, when these bills require urgent treatment, given the situation. That is what I wanted to stress. It is true that we have heard of other reforms such as radicalization in prisons. However, this problem does not seem to me to be taken into account, although I do not doubt your willingness to do so. To the words must therefore succeed the acts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u40	Mrs Matz, we have dealt with this issue on several occasions. First of all, with regard to the budget, I want to be very clear. We have set up a structural budget for staff, since it is not only committed for this year, but also for the following. For the federal police, it amounts to 32 million euros. Four million are programmed for level 3 overtime. An additional four million are planned to increase the overuren item in weekenden, which was underestimated in the initial 2015 budget. We knew, because we had to make the budget in two weeks. The remaining amounts are intended to hire police personnel. To give you a concrete example, I met the unions at Zaventem airport. The budget envelope will be able to finance the number of additional police officers they are requesting. We were able to agree on this point. A budget of $32 million is therefore provided for staff. Then we have another 200 million, mainly for security. We have asked all relevant services – Federal Police, State Security, OCAM, etc. – what were their investment needs. They arrived at $70 million. We have included this amount in the envelope. Moreover, this year, public procurement will need to be better managed, as it is not small purchases. That is why we are likely to increase funding. So we're going to be able to invest $100 million. That is my answer to your budgetary questions. For the rest, you are absolutely right to stress the time spent waiting for the approval of the Council of State. Four preliminary drafts were submitted to the Council: the extension of terrorist offences and the adaptation of the legislation with a view to the application of a more severe penalty; the extension of the list of punishable acts which may give rise to special methods of search; the widening of the possibilities for the withdrawal of nationality; the temporary withdrawal of the identity card, as well as the refusal to issue and withdrawal of the passport. These four preliminary drafts were discussed in the combined chambers of the Council of State. This is why it takes a little longer than expected – in this case, another 15 days. The Council of State has explicitly confirmed to me that we will receive its reply later this week. I will therefore be able to put this item on the agenda of next week's Council of Ministers. Then I will come and present the texts to Parliament. In any case, I share your opinion that this work takes too much time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u41	Minister, thank you for these new elements. I say this without demagogic or populist intent, but you did split what was about the investments and what was about the staff. I know you're going to tell me that you're not going to act like us, that you're going to rationalize and better affect the means. Nevertheless, the security missions in question are new and require resources. You mentioned $32 million for the federal police. Let me remind you that 177 million reductions were foreseen in the 2015 budget. I don't know if you'll be able to save $140 million by rationalizing and distributing better. If that's the case, I'll take my hat off and I'll even sign it right away. I don't see how you're going to be able to do it. You made it clear that this was the federal police. In other words, the police areas will receive nothing at all. However, significant reductions have been decided upon. You told me that the rest was about investment, unless I misunderstood. That's why I'm telling you this. I know you got something; I'm not saying there's nothing. Nevertheless, this remains very timid in view of the tasks entrusted to it. I also hear today that the police will not demonstrate because of a serious threat. For the four drafts of legislation, I can tell you nothing else than it seems to me long. When I see that neighbouring countries have adopted very similar legislation, I have the impression that they have a war in advance, if you will allow me the expression. I therefore regret that this is not moving forward any faster, especially since you have made the fight against terrorism your battlehorse. I do not think that the matter has been submitted to the Council of State for three months! Arbitrations have probably taken place within the government on relatively sensitive topics. We'll wait patiently. If I hear correctly, Parliament will have these texts before it if the timing you have given is respected. I can only rejoice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u42	Question No 3516 by Mr André Frédéric is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u43	Mr President, Minister, in the last elections of 2014, municipalities used first-generation automated voting systems JITES and DIGIVOTE. You informed them a few weeks ago that this material was coming to the end of its use possibilities. In Liège, we received such a letter; I therefore assume that this is also the case for other cities and municipalities. Indeed, the College of Parliamentary Experts recommended that the system be abandoned and replaced by a uniform system for all elections in Belgium. Civadis also considered that this system was no longer adequate for the next elections. Finally, the contract for the technical assistance of this equipment has come to an end. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. What procedures will be put in place to ensure effective consultation among all parties concerned, starting with cities and municipalities, which will be placed on the front lines? What change will the abandonment of this system bring to municipalities and cities? What steps will you take to ensure the transition of the new system? What is the cost to cities and municipalities? What will it be set up in the event of early elections, which you do not want, I imagine?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u44	Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, in view of the elements you mention in your question, in particular the recommendation of the College of Experts, on 12 March I did indeed inform the 39 Walloon municipalities and the 17 Brussels municipalities concerned by the first generation automated voting systems JITES and DIGIVOTE, of the decision not to use these systems in future elections under federal jurisdiction. I would like to stress that it will also be important for the federated powers to take a decision on this matter for these communes in the elections for which they are competent, namely the communal and provincial elections. This communication of 12 March was made as soon as possible with a view to the forthcoming elections in 2018 and 2019. Indeed, in the interests of good administration, it is important for the municipalities concerned, but also for my administration, to anticipate at best the preparation of these forthcoming elections, and therefore to know the method of voting that will be used. In this regard, my services, which are competent for the organisation of the next European, regional and federal elections in May or June 2019, in collaboration with the regional and Community authorities, which are competent for the next local elections in October 2018, will ensure that the necessary measures are taken to ensure a transition under the best conditions for the municipalities concerned, regardless of the autonomous choice of each federated entity for a return to paper voting or the use of the new electronic voting system with paper proof. Two cases are possible. If a return to the paper vote is decided, special formations will have to be organised for the proper counting of votes, as well as for the specific logistics required by the traditional voting method. This will require municipalities to acquire ballot boxes for paper ballots and to provide sufficient space for counting offices. Second possibility. If the use of the new electronic voting system is decided, the purchase of this system will have to be made via the framework contract concluded after public procurement with Smartmatic. This framework contract will be available to all federated entities in the country if they so wish. As for the cost of this purchase, each federated entity will have to decide whether it intervenes financially in the latter to help the communes, while knowing that the federal state intervenes, after the decision of the Council of Ministers, for a share of 20% of this purchase cost. Finally, in the event of early elections and without a prior decision to use the new electronic voting system, the 56 municipalities concerned should return to paper voting. Of course, special support from my services for these communes would be organised.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u45	I would like to thank the minister for his very comprehensive response and to welcome the fact that he has anticipated the process. In both cases, this will be an important investment for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u46	As a follow-up to the government's anti-terrorism plan, a number of voices were expressed in favour of a national number available to anyone concerned about certain signs of radicalization from a member of his or her entourage. In substance, if it seems to me that the idea of such a structure of cooperation between citizens and the authorities could be relevant as a tool for redirecting to the competent services, it seems to me essential to frame this tool in order to avoid serious drifts. Are you actually considering the introduction of such a system at the federal level? Are the criteria that would justify a call on this line clear or directly related to the subjectivity of concerned citizens? Who will be responsible for receiving, sorting and redirecting calls? Will specific staff be trained to manage the receipt of this information? Is the information from these appeals sufficient suspicion to trigger an investigation procedure afterwards? Considering that many preventive measures are being put in place by the Regions, the Communities and local entities, what cooperation is envisaged between these different levels of power?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u47	Various proposals have already been made. Since the Communities and the Regions are asking for such an initiative, I think that we should work together with the federated entities. That is why we have placed this item on the agenda of the radicalism platform of the consultation committee as a matter of priority. This committee meets monthly and the ministers concerned with the issue participate in the radicalism platform of the committee. The next meeting will take place in the coming weeks and this item will be on the agenda. The federal government would undertake the implementation of this initiative in consultation with the Communities and the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u48	I think that this tool is indispensable. Indeed, families are asked to have a tool that helps them when they detect that one of them derails. I am particularly concerned about the drifts that may result from the use of this telephone line, with discriminatory denunciations. I have fears at this level. It should be ensured that this is properly regulated, with legal standards.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u49	You're absolutely right. My opinion, which I will defend before the Communities and the Regions, is that we can organise this telephone line but that the staff should come from non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and not from the State. What we can and will have to do, I think, is train the people who will work for this phone line, provide the equipment, etc. But this will have to be managed by an NGO.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u50	Minister, ghost calls are so-called "bad calls." They result in a valuable and significant waste of time for relief services. According to Inland FPS figures, there are six million calls each year to number 101. One in four calls is not an emergency, but rather a request for information, contact, but also jokes and sometimes insults. However, it seems that we are far below reality and that it would be more correct to say that there are between 40 and 45 per cent "bid" calls. I learned that a warrant was being prepared to block the authors' phone numbers after a first warning was not effective. The idea would be to block the phone of the author of a false alarm for a period of time. The idea is interesting. It is necessary to optimize the time of emergency services and to devote it to urgent appeals. However, the draft decree raises questions. Indeed, the author of a phantom call sanctioned by a blockage may, within this period of time, need emergency services. So, Minister, can you tell me, in percentage terms, the proportion of ghost calls to rescue services? If a number is blocked, what if that person actually needs emergency services? How long would it take to block? Should we not think of punishing these phantom callers with a labor sentence, for example, in order to curb them and prevent history from repeating itself? A work sentence may be more appropriate than blocking the number, in case of urgent need. Thank you for the clarification you can give me. In substance, I strongly agree with you, because we must put rules and also give examples.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u51	Mr President, Minister, I would like to add my voice to the question put by my colleague and refer specifically to the written reply you gave me at the beginning of March on this subject. From this answer I could conclude that about 30% of the calls to emergency numbers are 100 and 112 ghost calls, so false calls that don't last longer than thirty seconds. Your reply also showed that the number of calls for information, disturbing calls, threatening calls, false notifications and mismanipulations is estimated between 45 % and 55 %. From calls to emergency number 101 2.5 % pocket calls, 3.6 % malicious calls and 7.3 % calls for general information and/or advice. Mr Minister, your predecessor announced in this House that there is a ministerial decision in the making to close disturbing callers who deliberately needlessly call, after a warning, for a certain period of time. You also stated in your written reply that your services, in cooperation with the BIPT, are developing that ministerial decision, that it should be possible to close the malicious caller for a certain period after prior warning. You also talked about the blue line in Antwerp, which makes the local police reachable seven days at seven and 24 hours at 24. The FPS Public Health also has a kind of blue line, a non-urgent line. Since your written reply did not specify the percentage of malicious calls to emergency numbers 100 and 112, do I wonder if it is comparable to the 3.6 % as for emergency number 101? What is the timing with regard to the ministerial decision I was talking about? How is the blue line evaluated? Are you planning initiatives on this? A combination of blue and green could be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u52	Mr President, I do not know what colour a combination of blue and green produces.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u53	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u54	I think blue and yellow green, but the rest can be discussed. This type of calls has only been registered in all auxiliary centres 112/100 since February 2014. An initial analysis indicates that the percentage of malicious calls in the auxiliary centres is fully comparable to that in the CIC 101. At present, no timing is known for the ministerial decision proposed by the BIPT to enable the malicious caller to close after a number of calls within a specified period and for a certain duration. The BIPT further builds on this in collaboration with my services. At my request, my services are looking at other ways of responding to the various types of untimely calls, such as the possibility of charging the citizen for the malicious call he made. People who deliberately call emergency numbers to make a joke are exposed to legal proceedings that can lead to criminal convictions. There has already been one in this context. Through the blue line, such as the local police of Antwerp, the possibility can indeed be offered to citizens to ask questions of a police nature free of charge and at any time non-urgent. That blue line is being positively evaluated in Antwerp. Other police areas also distribute a telephone number on which they are available for non-urgent questions, usually limited to office hours. I would add immediately that this is and remains a local matter. However, we can play for megaphone, for example by publishing the evaluation made in Antwerp in the police journal, in the publications addressed to the local areas. However, it remains a local responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u55	I thank the minister for his response.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u56	Minister, in mid-March the newspaper De Tijd published an article on the experiences of the CEO of Ballon Media publishing company with the Federal Computer Crime Unit (FCCU) after he was the victim of cybercriminals. He wasn't too happy about that. It has already been said in the past that the way in which he had asked his question has led to his question not being brought to the FCCU. However, we can learn from this, especially with regard to the functioning of the FCCU, for example how to report cybercrime via the website. It is also not easy to contact the FCCU directly as a federal or local police officer who is not a specialist in the matter. In the Netherlands or the United Kingdom it is already doing better in this area. Cybercrime remains a modern threat and a challenge for our security device. That's highly unlikely to decrease. If we really want to fight cybercriminals, it is also necessary for police services to be able to communicate on this in a modern way, for citizens to be well informed and for the police to be sufficiently accessible. The key tasks debate provides an opportunity to reflect on what tasks the police should assume and how we can modernise and make the police system more efficient. That is why, Minister, I have a number of questions. How do you see the role of the FCCU? Is it mainly a structure with a number of experts, or will the FCCU itself also be the reference point for citizens in the fight against cybercrime? How do you see the role of local police in fighting cybercrime? I had a similar question on the police council of the police area in which I sit about six months ago. The police area has a very difficult time with this, because it can only capture such facts if it is registered. Of course, this does not really serve the public, but it does not help the fight against cybercrime. A case should be passed on from the local level to the federal level in a very smooth way, and such crimes could at least be dealt with. What means and what communication strategy do you have in mind in the context of the key tasks debate in relation to the needs and expectations of citizens in relation to a modern and efficient police force?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u57	Mr Vermeulen, I will first give a very specific answer to your first question. The federal judicial police have cybercrime investigators at two different levels in the structure. Firstly, after the reform, there are the RCCUs, the regional computer crime units, which operate at the devolved level of the FGPs, that the judicial districts which broadly coincide with the provinces. Secondly, there is the FCCU, the federal computer crime unit, which works at the central level within the board of serious and organized crime. Together, we are not talking about the CCUS surprisingly. Both the FCCU and the RCCU have researchers with the necessary competences and expertise to conduct investigations into serious facts of ICT crime and to carry out forensic analyses of seized ICT material. As a central service, the FCCU is responsible, inter alia, for providing specific assistance to the RCCUs in their files on IT crime, in collecting intelligence, in conducting research and development, in maintaining international contacts, in managing the CCU research material and in organising training for the CCU members. The citizen's point of contact faced with a crime on the Internet is primarily the local police department. I shall come back to that in a moment in my answer to your next question. If a citizen or a company is a victim of real ICT crime, I am talking about crimes from the computer crime law of 2002, such as hacking, sabotage and espionage, and not about e.g. scams on the Internet, he can have his complaint acted directly by the regional CCU of the judicial district of his residence. This usually happens after contact with and in consultation with the local police. It seems logical to me that someone who is confronted with this is likely to contact the local police in nine out of ten cases, who will decide whether it is for her or contact the CCU, depending on the case. That brings me to your second question. Complaints about crime committed over the Internet can be filed with a local police station. After all, reception is one of the basic functions of the local police. As explained in other questions, this applies to classic crimes such as scams, stalking, slander, etc. committed by chance on the Internet. There is therefore no distinction between the channel: via telephone, face to face or via internet. The basic crime remains the same, only the scene of the crime differs, but that has nothing to do with the handling of that complaint. Complaints about genuine cybercrime can therefore be addressed to the RCCU members of the federal judicial police. Research on the Internet has long since become no exception and technology is so ubiquitous in our society that it can be expected that every policeman or policewoman in the organisation has a minimum basic knowledge of the matter. For some time now, therefore, initiatives have been taken by the CCUs and the provincial schools in various judicial districts to provide police personnel with the necessary basic knowledge on detection in a digital environment. This is also addressed in basic training. The staff of the local police are therefore perfectly armed to carry out simple investigations on the Internet. If they are confronted with more complex or technical matters, they may always seek advice or assistance from the CCUs concerned. Your third question. Adapting communication strategy and means of communication has nothing to do with the key tasks debate. This is not a task in itself: every task that the police have left will have a communication strategy and resources at their disposal. However, the importance which the government attaches to customer-friendly and smooth communication with citizens within a quality service provided by the police is underlined, inter alia, by the government agreement which makes the computerisation of police services a priority and puts the victim's position first. The communication strategy and means of communication are explicitly included in the optimisation of federal police and are fully adapted on the basis of the 2013 optimisation report. This report indicates that the communication of the federal police should focus more on the citizen and become more professional and customer-friendly. This objective was already mentioned in the mandate letter of the Commissioner-General who included the new communication strategy in her policy. For example, the structure of the Communication Directorate was reformed in October 2014, bringing the fragmented communication services into one Communication Directorate at Commissioner General level. The operation will be planned in 2015 so that the communication staff will have the opportunity to further professionalise themselves. This new policy must, of course, also improve the quality of the means of communication. There will also be more digital communication instead of expensive print. Digital communication is gradually modernised. I'll give you the course of it. The new public website of the federal police is online from April, although still in testing phase. The public web pages of the services and management, including those of the FCCU, will be adapted in the same way during the course of this year, in line with the general website. There will be a customer-friendly online reception policy in 2016. Languages are being developed with language workshops: accessible, less civil servants. Language is not described here, French, Dutch or, for Mrs Jadin, German, but from civil servants to clear language. The internal web pages will be adapted in line with the new communication policy, and a new media and marketing policy will be launched in the summer of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u58	Minister, I note that there are still too many misunderstandings in local police or victims. This is a story of bottom-up and top-down, or vice versa depending on the point of view. Much remains to be done, and I believe that Members of Parliament and/or members of the local police council have a role to play at the local level. In any case, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u59	Mr President, Minister, I am not sure that the spirit of Easter will invade us. Indeed, the theme "new threat of trade union actions" can be put in committee every week and will always be relevant. This question dates from 1 April. As I said earlier in another context, I read in a Belga dispatch this morning that demonstrations were planned, especially for the pension file, but because of the threat, they were cancelled. However, ministerial meetings are still planned. Nine months ago, the decision of the Constitutional Court fell. It is more than time to come to a conclusion on this issue and find a solution to the concerns of the police. Minister, what about the transitional measure? On the proposal of the Minister of Pensions, a draft bill containing various provisions for certain members of the integrated police force was approved by the Council of Ministers on 27 March 2015. What is it planning? Has it been the subject of a consensus with the police unions? A coordination working group will be established upon receipt of the opinion of the Council of State. What will be the tasks of this working group? To what extent will the police unions be involved? What's the calendar? With regard to the scheme solution applicable to all police officers, you referred to the general debate on pensions which is expected to take place in the course of April. Has a work schedule been established? To what extent will police unions be represented in these discussions? When can police officers expect concrete answers? What about your commitment to seeing the police profession recognized as a heavy and dangerous profession? Have you had any contact with the Minister of Pensions on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u60	Mrs Matz, with respect to the content of the draft bill, specifically section 88/1, I refer you to my previous detailed answers, the most recent of which is the April 1, date when your question was registered. However, I can add that the project was negotiated in Committee A, where a protocol was signed, as well as in the Police Services Negotiating Committee. There was no global consensus. Meanwhile, the draft was tabled in the House on 15 April and will be dealt with in the Social Affairs Committee on 29 April, according to the urgent procedure. As for the debate on qualification as a heavy occupation, I repeat that it has proved impossible to isolate the police from the overall discussion to be held in the National Pension Committee. I therefore believe that the transitional rules must first be finalised as soon as possible. That is why I welcome the urgent procedure that will apply to this bill. I shall endeavour to find a basis for agreement with the social partners on the second part, namely the draft royal decree on non-activity prior to pension. While the respective positions have come closer, it is clear that the third aspect, the immediate early recognition of the police profession as a heavy trade before the National Pension Committee has considered the subject, is not conceivable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u61	Mr Minister, that is what I said at the beginning of my question: we cannot always be inhabited with a positive spirit. Some constructive counter-proposals have been made, notably by trade unions. You're the one who talked about recognition as a heavy job, which is why I'm asking you about it. We are not talking about immediate recognition, but, in the longer term, it seems that this may meet a number of concerns. In the coming days, we will have to deal with the bill. If I hear correctly, there's not a line that's changed from April 1 and you're heading. As far as a number of issues are concerned, particularly those relating to pensions and others that are being debated a few metres away from us at the moment, we are accustomed to you going outside of constructive and consensual negotiations with the unions. Nevertheless, we will have to make a number of remarks at that time and we will be waiting for the rest, knowing that this issue remains very problematic. As I mentioned earlier, actions will be taken. Is there no way to get around the table to try to find a solution that satisfies the bosses and the unions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u62	Half an hour ago, we heard from Mrs Temmerman that she had her questions converted into written questions. We now come to the combined questions Nos 3587 by Mrs Temmerman and 3779 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu. However, I see that Mrs Temmerman is not here. However, we tried to contact her earlier. Mrs. Lahaye-Battheu, you are here. I am happy to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u63	Mr Minister, I will be very brief, because there have been several exchanges of views on the Road Safety Fund. There is the royal decision at the end of last year and there is your answer in this committee about a month ago, explaining that the arrears will be cleared year after year to the local police zones. There has been some unrest, stirred up by the VVSG, which would have heard that the distribution criteria are being changed for the benefit of the federal police. This would in future be entitled to 30% of the second share of that fund instead of 5%, with the result that the local areas would receive approximately EUR 18 million less. Mr. Secretary, can you take away that concern? Is that a rumor that's based on nothing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u64	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, thank you for this question which allows me to clarify the subject. Within the framework of the law several provisions I did just before Easter indeed ask for an opinion from among others the Advisory Council of Mayors, the Permanent Commission of Local Police and the VVSG on their proposal to raise the federal police key to 30% for the second disc. So the first and the largest disk is not hit. This proposal is based on, on the one hand, the original intention of the legislator, in particular, a fair distribution between police forces according to their contribution to the collective effort on traffic and, on the other hand, the importance of, and even more, the need for a common modern ICT for the integrated police. In the previous division, the contribution of the federal police was greatly underestimated, but with this legislative amendment I would like to pay particular attention to the common ICT of both police components, where a thorough modernisation is needed and for which the federal police, from its support function for the integrated police, is responsible. I am thinking mainly of the ambitious iPolice for the benefit of local and federal police forces. The general interest of local police operations and of the integrated police operation are therefore more important than that of the individual corps of local police and/or federal police services. So it is by no means the intention to take something away from one person to give to another. Both components benefit from the integrated operation. I would remind you that this integrated operation is a basic concept of the octopus reshaped. I have not yet taken a decision on this matter and I await the opinion of the various bodies mentioned above. We have asked for advice from the Advisory Council of Mayors, the Permanent Committee of Local Police and the VVSG. So I haven't taken a position yet. These advices will, in principle, come in this week or early next week. I will analyse them carefully and choose the best solution. The bottom line is that we want to see how the huge investment we are going to make next year and the following year in iPolice, in the police force that the local police are also working on, could not be a shared financial responsibility for today's outdated system that complicates any integration of police zones. Today, the local areas also have computer problems. With the proposal we are making here, we could eliminate these computer charges. However, it is by no means my intention to impose anything, but to consider, in consultation with the local authorities, how we can achieve something here. Perhaps this can be done through the Road Safety Fund, through a temporary change of distribution during the two years in which we have to make that investment. That must be done in consultation. It may also be that we simply offer something to the local areas and let them pay for it, while the Road Safety Fund remains what it is. That could be a different model. However, it is a question of getting the whole of the integrated police on the same computer platform so that we can present the idea of integration not only on paper but also in computer systems. That would greatly simplify many processes that are complex today. We are going to look for a system in which the local areas can also find themselves and in which they can make savings in the field of computer science.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for this explanation. For a good understanding, the payout of the back stables is separate from this? It is really about the current and future distribution? [[Assent]] Thank you for the explanation. You will hear me more about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u66	Mr President, Minister, during 2014, the Brussels police said that they had framed 3,419 events, more than half of which would be attributable to the international role of our capital: visits by personalities, protocol events, demonstrations, etc. For the latter point, the number of demonstrations increased by 22% between 2012 and 2014, with sometimes several different events on the same day in the Brussels-Capital-Ixelles area. These situations require substantial budgets, since the costs are borne by the police areas. We are talking, for example, about 537,800 euros spent on the last visit of US President Barack Obama, which is a considerable amount of money. These frameworks also require a large deployment in terms of police officers dispatched for each situation. That is the main point of my question. Mr Minister, will the police areas in Brussels be increased in proportion to the increase in the number of events requiring supervision? Given the ever-increasing workload, according to statistics, is there any consideration of using other police areas in support of operations or of systematic federal reinforcement for these types of management? Are not the safety of our citizens and the personalities who visit our city and the reputation of the capital sufficient reasons to invest in terms of resources in the police areas concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to your questions concerning the supervision of demonstrations by the Brussels police, I would like to give you the following answers. First of all, I will answer your first and third related questions. I have agreed to participate in a working group at the level of the police areas of the Brussels-Capital Region with the task of analysing the problem of police areas facing an additional workload, following the specificity of Brussels as the capital of Europe. The subject is therefore under study. In other words, the working group is currently working on this issue. As regards the very specific problem of the Brussels Region, and in particular the police areas, several measures have been taken to take them into account. Apart from the traditional basic funding of police areas, through the federal endowment system, the police areas of the Brussels Region were able to benefit from other additional measures. Here I am thinking in particular of the two allocations which were granted in 2014 to the Brussels-Capital Region for the benefit of the police areas responsible for the "fund for the financing of certain security-related expenditure resulting from the organisation of the European summits in Brussels as well as from the security and prevention expenditure in relation to the functions of the national and international capital of Brussels". This amounts to EUR 15 million and EUR 17.3 million respectively. Following the sixth state reform, the transfer of responsibility for managing the fund for the European summits to the Brussels-Capital Region was accompanied by an increase in the budget of the fund for the police, from €22.3 million in 2013 to €32.3 million in 2014. On the other hand, let me point out that in addition to the traditional funding comparable to the other police areas and the two endowments already mentioned, the police areas of the Brussels Region have received a specific share of the allocation intended to encourage the recruitment policy of 1.5 million euros for 2014. In response to your second question, the possibility of using other police areas in support of operations or a systematic federal reinforcement for this type of supervision is already applicable. The principle is based on a concentric commitment of the available means of the federal and local police, i.e. the engagement of its own personnel within the zone, then a call to the available part of the intervention force of the federal police and, finally, the activation of the mechanism of the compulsory national solidarity capacity, called "hycap capacity" in jargon. In this context, Ministerial Directive MFO-2 regulates the provision by all police areas in the country of part of their operational capacity for the benefit of another police area faced with administrative police missions that it cannot perform alone. As part of the demonstration on 6 November 2014, police officers from Antwerp had come in support of the Brussels police. They accompanied the dockers from Antwerp to Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u68	Minister, thank you for that clarification. At the level of recruitment in this police area, do you intend to review the figures as well? I'm from this area. I have worked there for almost nine years and I can tell you that it is quite a mess when it comes to ensuring and regulating all the events in Brussels. Even at the federal level, when we asked for reinforcements, we didn't have one. I had non-stop colleagues set up. They were not entitled to their days of rest because the framework is not complete and must be constantly engaged in this area. You mustn't hide your face. Brussels is the capital of Europe. There are a lot of events and more and more, all year round, even during school periods. Minister, are you going to review the recruitment system?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u69	Mrs. Ben Hamou, the federal recruitment system is planned. It is always possible for an area, as Antwerp did last year, in collaboration with schools, to organise their own recruitment and training. At the federal level, we plan to increase the number originally planned for October and December because I have an additional budget envelope.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u70	For recruitment? In October and December?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u71	In October and December!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u72	I get a lot of questions about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u73	Mr Minister, it is my responsibility that the printing service of the federal police would have simply been abolished. This department was responsible for the layout, graphic design and printing of all documents useful for the proper functioning of the police services. These are official and often confidential documents, including ongoing police intervention, seizures, building plans, etc. These tasks are managed by the twelve staff members of this department. It would appear that the decision to close the printing plant was taken in favour of centralizing the service within the Fedopress public printing plant. While I do not doubt the validity of this decision, I regret that the staff members were not consulted in advance. They deplore a lack of social consultation and information. Moreover, the fate of these twelve employees involved in the centralization of the service worries me just as much as the confidential nature of the missions entrusted to Fedopress. In addition, the internal organization of all police services will be upset by this change. I therefore consider it appropriate to ask you the following questions. Can you explain to us the reasons for the closure of the printing service and the creation of Fedopress? What was the budget needed for this change and for whom? What are the public or private services that use this public printing? What about the twelve persons employed by the Federal Police Printing Service? Have they been integrated into another service? Should job losses be deplored? The handling of confidential documents requires the swearing-in of staff. Is this the case with the public printing company Fedopress? In terms of practical organisation, particularly in the event of an emergency situation, can this service guarantee the proper functioning of police missions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u74	Dear colleague, at the end of 2014, the federal police decided to renew their obsolete press machines and replace them with more efficient digital presses. In this context, a public procurement procedure has been launched. The Federal Police Finance Inspector issued a negative opinion. As Minister of Security and the Interior, I have decided to refer this decision to the Minister of Budget. On 26 February, he confirmed the negative opinion and invited the federal police to outsource his printing work to Fedopress. This decision means the planned end of the Federal Police's printing business since, in the absence of new presses, it can no longer function properly. Fedopress is dependent on FPS Finance and has opened since January 2012 to other federal public services, excluding federated and local entities as well as the private sector. For questions relating to Fedopress, I refer you to my colleague, the Minister of Finance. All personnel currently composing the Federal Police Print will be reclassified to the Federal Police. Specific and individual support has been put in place at the staff management level. No loss of employment will be recorded. Fedopress staff are also sworn in. In addition, in order to ensure the security of confidential documents, a confidentiality clause will be included in the Memorandum of Understanding between Fedopress and the Federal Police. In some specific cases, the presence of a police officer on site will be foreseen. Finally, the practical arrangements for co-operation between Fedopress and the federal police in urgent situations will be addressed in the Memorandum of Understanding. This Memorandum of Understanding will be signed in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u75	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u76	Mr. President, Minister, on November 12, I was concerned about the delay in the seasonal influenza vaccination campaign in the police. As a reminder, these vaccines cover 40,000 police and civilian personnel. Beyond the public health problem of such a delay in vaccination, it was the proper functioning of the services that I saw threatened by a rate of absenteeism due to this infection. You then told me that the order for vaccines had been made and that the campaign could begin. Recently, however, I have been arrested again by police personnel who tell me that several vaccines, including the flu vaccine, have not yet been realized. Minister, can you clarify the situation? Yes or no, was the seasonal influenza vaccination campaign conducted within the police? Have the 40,000 personnel benefited from all the usual vaccines for the benefit of the services? How can I explain the delays and claims of some staff members who did not benefit from the vaccination campaign?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u77	Mrs Ben Hamou, the decision to vaccinate federal police personnel or police areas is a prerogative of each external or internal service for the prevention and protection of competent work, most often in agreement with the employer. In addition, the influenza vaccination campaign is part of the policy to combat police absenteeism and not in the enforcement of workplace welfare laws and regulations. Influenza vaccination is not mandatory, unlike, for example, against hepatitis and tetanus. There is no comprehensive vaccination campaign for 40,000 integrated police personnel, since the decision to vaccinate belongs to each employer (federal police and police areas) In the event of an agreement between the employer and the competent preventive services, the occupational health advisers provide vaccination and the financial burden is taken over in the overall cost of annual membership of the preventive service. For its part, the Federal Police Medical Service provides CFWB Occupational Health Advisors with the vaccines needed to vaccinate federal police personnel who, during their periodic health assessment medical examination, express a desire to be vaccinated. In a purely curative setting, the Federal Police Medical Service makes available a batch of influenza vaccines to general practitioners in these medical centres, particularly for the vaccination of persons of the integrated police who are considered to be purely medically at risk. The availability of seasonal influenza vaccines was delayed by one month this year, on the one hand, due to the late award of the vaccine market and, on the other hand, because the company originally chosen could not deliver the quantities ordered within the time limit. In addition, it should be noted that vaccination has been less followed this year, probably because police personnel, like the public, have learned from the media that the influenza vaccine available in Belgium this year was only very ineffective (25%) against the strain of the Influenza virus, responsible for the moderate influenza epidemic that occurred from December 2014 to March 2015. In addition, many claimants who met the INAMI reimbursement criteria had in the meantime been vaccinated by their attending physician.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u78	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u79	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 35, by Mr Demon: Question No 36, by Mrs Onkelinx has been withdrawn and Question No 3614 by Mrs Onkelinx Mr Friart's 3620 will be answered in the Committee on Business.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u80	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, the recent deployment of military personnel around sensitive public sites seems to have borne fruit in terms of declining crime. But beyond this very concrete consequence, we see above all the massive support of the population for this deployment, as the feeling of insecurity was perceptible after the terrorist acts that struck Paris last January, but also and especially after the necessary intervention of the police forces from within our territory, in Verviers. If a sense of insecurity has intensified, it is that we have recently faced a real threat that was unfamiliar to us, namely acts of terrorism on our soil. Faced with this threat of a new nature, the government has taken its responsibilities and decided on exceptional measures to respond adequately to the level of violence recorded in Paris, Verviers and elsewhere in Europe. However, everyone is well aware that the presence of our military is not a lasting solution and that it will also have to be expected that the police forces will one day take over the full burden of urban security. If the level of threat can decrease, the nature of the threat will remain, no matter what, different from what has been known in the past. The question of whether the police are able to respond optimally persists. Would it not therefore be appropriate to adjust the training of police officers to this new and important aspect of their profession? I am thinking in particular of the scientific methods of predictive profiling. These techniques are already being used by other States and have proved themselves, particularly in the capacity of police or security officers, for example at airports, to detect any abnormal behaviour or signs and therefore to act preventively, before a violent or terrorist act is committed. Minister, are these techniques known to our intelligence services? Is their practice taught during the basic or continuing training of police officers? Are they already used on the ground by law enforcement officials or some of them? If so, has there already been an assessment of the relevance and success of these methods? Does the change in the nature of the current threat lead you to emphasize the importance of learning new techniques, including predictive profiling, in the training module of our agents?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you pointed out on the occasion of your question, which I thank you for, the government has taken its responsibilities by deciding to take exceptional measures to respond adequately to the level of violence recorded in Paris and Verviers. The deployment of military personnel around sensitive public sites and other measures are bearing fruit. We continue to seek and consider the most effective mechanisms and means to address the level of security threat in our country. With regard to your questions about predictive profiling and police services in their security mission, I would like to give you the following answers. First of all, the practice of predictive profiling is already known by the police. In the context of the fight against terrorism, the Central Terrorism Service of the Federal Judicial Police, with the support of foreign and internal partner services to the Federal Police, has developed an ongoing training entitled "Observing, interpreting and intervening when faced with deviant behaviour." This training takes in part the techniques of predictive profiling. The continuing training started a year ago, and some train-the-trainer training has already taken place. The initial choice was to train the most affected units, namely, the Railway Police and the Aviation Police. Initially, the reasoning was that these places present a certain vulnerability to terrorists and violent extremists. Future sessions are planned for other local and federal police services that will benefit from these techniques in their missions. For the moment, it is premature to already assess the interest and success of these methods because the trainings have been given quite recently. However, it is certain that these techniques are applicable not only to police officers associated with the fight against terrorism, extremism or violent radicalism, but also to the police function in the broad sense of the term. Deviant behaviour can occur in all situations. They are specific to hooligans, robbers, activists, etc. I come to your second question. At present, training has not yet been introduced as a basic training. On the occasion of the latter, police officers are already trained on how to react on the ground in specific cases and scenarios, taking into account the various elements that manifest themselves in a situation, the detection of subtle non-verbal signals and abnormal behaviour. In addition, since the attacks in New York and Europe in the early 2000s, the police have already invested in the basic training of the various cadres as well as in ongoing training on terrorism to raise awareness among staff. Since April 2013, more than 10,500 Belgian police officers have received the CoPPRa (Community Politics and the Prevention of Radicalization) training, which aims to better detect violent radicalization that can lead to terrorism. Part of this training is also dedicated to specific indicators. The Dutch police have chosen to organise these training courses as continuing training. Their experience shows that these techniques are so specific that they require minimal police experience in order to be properly applied. Nevertheless, the federal police believe that some aspects may also be beneficial for basic training. Awareness-raising training could be considered. Currently, efforts are focused on training of trainers and on continuing training for police officers working in vulnerable locations or at higher-risk events. The ultimate goal is also to collaborate with external partners by providing them with expertise in this area and by helping them develop training tailored to their needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u82	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. Next time, we will also be able to address the issue of private security officers, who are also within your jurisdiction. They may need to be allowed and encouraged to attend these courses. All security officers deployed to our territory could use these techniques to identify potential threats in shopping malls or other strategic and sensitive locations in our country. I will not fail to follow the evolution of these techniques in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u83	Mr President, Minister, during your visit on Tuesday 30 March 2015, you were able to discover the current facilities of the Federal Police in Liège. Between the old kitchens and bathrooms occupied today by the investigators and the scientific laboratory, you have been able to see the catastrophic working conditions in which members of this federal police force have been operating for too many months. You have therefore, to the relief of all, joined the grievances of the personnel and officials of the federal police and confirmed your desire to see the master plan to bring together the various services and members of the federal police on the same site. You are aware that in parallel with this problem of the facilities of the Federal Police, the City of Liège is also waiting for the decisions of your colleague, the Minister of Defence Mr Vandeput, concerning the maintenance of military districts and infrastructures in its territory. As we know, the Department of Defence is preparing for a major reform for the coming years, which could lead, among other things, to the suppression of certain military infrastructures and quarters. In this context, the Government Agreement allows for the consideration of various practical collaborations for the optimal use of federal assets and assets. In your proposal for a masterplan, we are talking about the construction of new buildings which would be located outside the territory of the city of Liège and which would be operational within three years. Given the reform of defence and the high density of military buildings in Liège, would it not be appropriate to consider cooperation between the departments of defence and the interior in order to create positive synergies for all actors? Very concretely, is the idea of regrouping the federal police force with the Defence force at existing sites (Rocourt and/or St. Lawrence) conceivable?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u84	Mr Foret, the project is and will remain in Vottem for all the staff of the Federal Police of the district of Liège. We will not group the staff of the Federal Police of Liège on the site of Rocourt, Saint-Laurent or Val Benoît. The execution of Vottem's masterplan has, in fact, already begun. Currently, the special specifications for phase 1 of the masterplan are being drafted by the Régie des Bâtiments. Thinking about another solution would only delay this project, which has dragged too much. The working conditions I was able to observe during my visit are almost unacceptable. If it were a private company, we'd shut it down immediately. Of course, there are still some ideas that we can put into practice, but I will not take this path. All studies concerning Vottem have been done. A specification is being drafted. The initial project I saw at the Régie des Bâtiments was unacceptable to me in terms of deadlines. I have therefore asked to shorten this whole journey, and I have committed myself to it with the social partners, so urgently there is. We need to act very quickly. I also committed to the social partners coming back next week with a new project plan and a new timing for Phase 1 and Phase 2. Even today, I had a meeting with the Régie des Bâtiments and next week I will come with a much more aggressive action plan. The Defence Strategic Plan will take place over several years. Waiting is no longer acceptable. Then we might say that we would have done better to achieve things together. It's possible, but circumstances force me to act now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u85	Minister, I can only join you in the matter of urgency. The current conditions are indeed deplorable. We need to find solutions and accelerate the movement. I also know that the administrative procedures for developing a new project mean that the timing would not be respected and that the urgency would not be met. I regret that there was no possibility of synergies on the St.Lawrence site, but I have no doubt that you will find other possibilities, other synergies that will allow these objectives to be met on other projects. Thank you for your frankness and your efforts to facilitate the working conditions of our police officers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u86	Mr Nollet has already been present in this committee, but he also had questions on the agenda in other committees. We've called him, but we haven't been able to reach him yet. We are considering whether we can put his questions on our agenda when he returns to this committee and otherwise his questions will be considered withdrawn. Mr Van Mechelen, I would like to welcome you to this committee for the first time under my chairmanship.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u87	At first glance, Minister, my question may be a bit banal, but it has a lot of repercussions on the ground for young people. Basic training for police is open to participation from the age of 17. Effective training starts from 18 years of age. There is, however, a problem for people leaving school and taking part in the course in September or October, because they usually cannot meet the condition of having a driving licence. Mr Minister, can we not resolve this pragmatically by saying that a candidate police officer must ensure, during his basic training, that he fulfils the condition for obtaining a driving licence before being effectively appointed as a police officer? Are you prepared to work out a solution to this problem, with the conditions of admission being adjusted? I have always had the pleasure of being in the end of August, which allowed me to start the school year on 1 September, but one will only have to be in October, November or December. This condition cannot be met, even if the motivation is still so great. The person concerned will then have to wait almost a year to be eligible. In my opinion, a small modification of that condition can simply solve that problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u88	Mr Van Mechelen, the legislator has different motives in mind, which mean that the age limit of adulthood, 18 years old, is decisive for starting training only then. In the Act of 26 April 2002 26 April is also a nice anniversary date, nothing is coincidental in life with the essential elements of the Staff Regulations of Police and laying down various other provisions relating to police services, Article 12 lays down the general conditions of admission of the various frameworks. Under these conditions, the minimum age of 18 years and the possession of a category B driving licence are included. The reason for this condition stems from the fact that the candidate must be able to drive a police vehicle during the training period. For this reason, the requirement of the driving licence exists. As a candidate in training, the persons concerned also receive a contract of employment and have to learn contracts requiring police powers. This also means that they must be legal adults. There is also the regulation on the possession and use of a weapon, which also requires the legal age of majority. In practice, I find that the average age of the candidates starting the training course is 22 to 23 years and is therefore actually well above the minimum age required of 18 years. The age of 18 years for starting aspirants is rather exceptional. This can be exceptional because of the condition of driving licences, because in order to have a driving licence at 18 years of age, efforts must be made. I should also like to point out that, contrary to what is mentioned, the starting times of basic training generally take place more than once a year. However, I would like to examine whether we can make the driving licence conditional that people can start, at 18 years old, and have their driving licences before they have to drive a car for the first time as part of an internship. For the candidates, this means that those who do not meet that condition are out. I would like to examine the advantages and disadvantages of this. However, it is a little more complex, it is also about the use of weapons, which is taught during training, which requires the age of 18 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u89	Mr Minister, I do not have any question about the age of 18 years, because I absolutely agree with that, certainly with regard to the use of firearms, but one should be able to provide for, for example, a six-month period for someone who has a birthday on, for example, 31 December, so that this person gets six months to obtain his driving licence. I assume that at the beginning of the training there should be no need to rip the streets with combi trunks. So with a little pragmatism we can solve this problem. Should you doubt it, it was a case taken out of life.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u90	Mr President, Minister, on April 7, the Agence française de Sécurité nucléaire released disturbing information on the abnormal composition of steel in certain areas of the lid and bottom of the reactor tank under construction in Flamanville. This abnormal composition results in much lower than expected mechanical resilience values. For memory, resilience is one of the indicators of a material's ability to spread cracks. Minister, can you describe further this anomaly in the composition of steel? What is it? What is its origin? Can you reassure us about the situation of the Belgian tanks? We know that the plant under construction in Flamanville is not of the same type as those built in Belgium, but the tank remains an essential part of any plant. Can you therefore tell us whether the Belgian Federal Agency has analysed the French situation? What are the possible conclusions it draws from this analysis for our power plants? Have the funds and covers of our seven plants been analysed in the same way as the analysis which led to the detection of this new problem in France? If so, are these recent analyses or historical analyses that date back to their construction? Finally, can you guarantee the total reliability of our tank bottoms and lids?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u91	Mr Nollet, the problems posed by the lid and bottom of the Flamanville reactor tank are due to a manufacturing error during the forging of steel. The cause and consequences of this defect are therefore metallurgical. During solidification of liquid steel, hydrogen sometimes accumulates in certain areas and weakens them, so-called segregations. These fragile areas are normally cut before the processing of forged steel continues. In the case of the Flamanville PRT component, the segment cut into the forged part was too small, which explains why areas of the finished product still exhibit segregations. The ASN, the French Nuclear Safety Authority, immediately informed AFCN of this issue. AFCN concludes from an initial analysis that the current covers and bottoms of the tanks of the seven Belgian reactors cannot be affected by this anomaly, given the different manufacturing technique used. The hemispheric lids and the bottoms were made by folding a thick plate and then welding it to a forged ring. The production of these plates and rings is a common practice that is closely monitored because the finished products meet high quality requirements. It is the operator's intention to replace in 2015 the covers of the Doel 4 and Tihange 3 reactor tanks preventively. This preventive replacement is unrelated to the current issue, as AFCN had been notified of it by the end of 2011. An initial analysis by AFCN shows that it is unlikely that the two new Doel 4 and Tihange 3 lids will present the same problem. At the time of the 2011 application, Electrabel had indicated that these lids would be forged by a different producer. However, AFCN asked Electrabel to provide evidence that the new lids do not have the same defects as the Flamanville components. The operator must provide this additional justification to the AFCN before the two new covers can be put into service.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u92	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his answer. I think it is a good reflex on the part of AFCN – when it is positive, it must be said – to have asked this for the rest. However, I would like to stress two things which do not necessarily have an immediate impact, but which are nevertheless time-consuming. These nuclear power plants, and their production, are very expensive. They are normally carried out safely. We realize that for a construction site like Flamanville, which is a flagship construction site for the French company that is building it, the minimum safety that can be expected is not reached. On the other hand, in the timetable for implementation, five years ago, and this incident, I suppose, will cause further delays. The costs associated with this delay and a poor initial assessment - in any case a truncated assessment in the initial commitments - have increased from €3.3 billion to €8.5 billion, without taking into account the costs associated with what has just been discovered in Flamanville. Minister, perhaps you're thinking about that. I think this should discourage the construction of new nuclear power plants. This is the prototype of the power plants of tomorrow, in any case presented as such. I invite you to take this five-year delay and the cost from $3 billion to $8.5 billion into account before considering anything in this regard. Last point: there is, at least for the moment, no direct link proved at first analysis with the tanks, lids and tank bottoms of the Belgian power plants. Nevertheless, in Doel 3 and Tihange 2, there was also clearly an error or a problem at the time of manufacture. It's another big incident, and it's managed. I have other questions about that. I am not going to make a connection, since there is no connection to be made, except in the fact that, despite everything, in these places of production where we should be totally safe, we are not and we are not able to be, no more now than 20 years ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u93	Mr President, Minister, on March 24, a Germanwings Airbus A320 crashed in the Alps. The aircraft was less than 7 minutes away from the Cadarache nuclear site and 8 minutes away from Marcoule and Tricastin. Mr Minister, are the seven Belgian power stations able to withstand a possible shock from an Airbus A320 aircraft that would crash at full speed at one of their hot spots? As a key point, I mean the reactor tank and core, but also the cooling facilities that are needed in case of problems. On the other hand, it is our view that the impact calculations carried out took into account a concrete thickness of 120 centimetres for some former power stations, whereas the erosion which sometimes leaves 30 centimetres holes was not taken into account in these calculations. What about it? How is erosion taken into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the potential impact of a fall in aircraft has been taken into account in the design of Belgian nuclear power plants and has since been examined in the context of periodic safety reviews. Following the terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001 in the United States, the risk of a fall in aircraft of terrorist origin was completely reassessed for the Doel and Tihange units. In 2011–12, as part of the resistance testing program, the operator again analyzed the available studies for an aircraft fall. The potential consequences of an aircraft drop on the nuclear power plant's safety functions, which ensure the maintenance of the cold source and power supply, were analysed. Different scenarios were examined taking into account the sliding distance and the angle of attack or fall of the aircraft. For example, the potential impact of an aircraft's fall on major installations such as electrical buildings, high voltage stations or emergency cooling towers was also investigated. The reactors each have two levels of safety system that perform these safety functions. The first level of protection protects the unit from incidents and accidents of internal origin. The second level of protection guarantees protection against external aggression. Emergency systems at the second level of protection are located in bunkerized buildings that are geographically separate from the safety systems at the first level. As a result, it is almost impossible for an aeroplane to fall and result in the simultaneous loss of safety systems at both levels of protection. The reactors of the most recent units (Doel 3 and 4 and Tihange 2 and 3) with double concrete enclosures are designed to withstand the impact of a Boeing or Airbus aircraft without damage to the primary circuit. The reactor buildings of the other units are equipped with a concrete enclosure and an internal metal enclosure (Doel 1 and 2) or a double concrete enclosure (Tihange 1). For these units, significant damage to the external concrete structure with the possibility of projectiles penetrating inside the enclosure cannot be completely excluded for all aircraft types. However, this damage to the enclosure does not necessarily imply damage to the primary circuit or cooling and backup systems, given the additional protection provided by the numerous concrete structures and casemates inside the reactor building. The results of the resistance tests gave rise to additional measures designed to strengthen the robustness of the installations against an aeroplane fall. Complementary fire-fighting devices have since been available at the sites to enable the rapid extinguishing of a kerosene fire caused by the fall of an aircraft. During the repair work carried out in 2012, signs of erosion were observed up to 30 centimetres deep in some places in the concrete of the outer wall of the Tihange 2 reactor building. The erosion is located on the outer wall of the enclosure, with a total thickness of 120 centimetres. Repair work continues and is monitored by the security authority. In addition, the operator demonstrated in further studies that, despite the occurrence of erosion, the reactor vessel was able to perform its safety functions properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u95	Minister, this response is a cause for concern and concern. You say that, during the design (late 1970s, early 1980s), nuclear power plants were planned to withstand the impact of an airplane, but an aircraft of the time. Then you tell us that the situation was reassessed following the attacks of 11 September 2001. In this context, it has been realized that the oldest power plants, Tihange 1, Doel 1 and Doel 2, are vulnerable. To use your words, one cannot rule out that there is indeed damage to projectiles in the oldest power plants because they do not have this double enclosure, of which we are talking at Doel 3 and Doel 4, Tihange 2 and Tihange 3. Minister, are these plants, some of which would like to see the extended life span, now going to benefit from the double protection needed to cope with the evolution of the aircraft's size? It's not all to see if we're back for ten years. What happened in France is not a terrorist act but can have the same consequences. It is also known that the terrorist threat is more widespread than before. As Minister of the Interior, you are well placed to know that. In addition, it is known that the aircraft is being used. All of this demonstrates the external fragility of our nuclear power plant system. Will Doel 1 and Doel 2 power stations be upgraded to satisfactory standards to withstand this type of aircraft? In Tihange, many planes pass near the power plant. Liège Airport is only about 30 kilometres away as a bird flies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u96	Mr President, Mr Nollet, you are still trying to find risks and threats in our nuclear programme. That's something I understand very well, given your ideology. Nevertheless, I do not think it is very useful. The damage I have mentioned is damage that does not involve damage to the primary circuit or cooling and backup systems. I have also said that, for certain types of aircraft, external protection is provided for these three power stations. There's always a risk, but we know where it is. Given the additional protection of many concrete structures and casemates, I think the safety inside the reactor building is sufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u97	Mr Minister, thank you, but you do not answer me at all in relation to Doel 1 and Doel 2. Now, you yourself say that it cannot be excluded, given the fact that there is no double-pregnant. I understand that it is not immediate, but admit that if a plane falls and there is no double-pregnant, it is not because you have strengthened the fire services around it that it will save the situation!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u98	There is a concrete and metal enclosure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u99	Yes, but who is not the double speaker as we meet her in Doel 3, Doel 4, Tihange 2 and Tihange 3. I'm talking about Doel 1 and Doel 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u100	At Doel 1 and Doel 2, there is a concrete enclosure and a metal enclosure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u101	Yes, but it's not the double-pregnant as we meet her in Doel 3, Doel 4, Tihange 2 and Tihange 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u102	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u103	Yes, that's why I'm not talking about Tihange 1 because I'm less sure of the situation but, in any case, there's a difference with Doel 1 and Doel 2. This difference makes the risk greater. You tell me I always come here with questions, but that's my job. There is a risk that, in my view, is undervalued. I ask you the questions correctly but I do not have an answer as to the necessary reinforcement of Doel 1 and Doel 2. On the other hand, I consider that this kind of residual risk cannot be taken, even if you can consider it. We cannot consider it if we do not have all the guarantees and guarantees in this area. What would reassure us is that we have access to all the information. A report was produced following the 2001 attacks. In order to get out of this set of questions and answers, it is more than necessary for you to give parliamentarians access to all the elements in a manner to be determined. You say Doel 1 and Doel 2 are not sufficiently protected and you are trying to minimize the impact that this could have. I continue to say that as long as we do not have access to this data, we cannot know exactly the extent of the danger we pose to our people.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u104	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demon's 3696 has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u105	Mr President, Minister, following the one-year anniversary of the Halle-Vilvoorde parish, it became known that within one year the lab, the Brussels crime lab, no longer wished to be responsible for the trace investigation in the fifteen police areas of Halle-Vilvoorde. At Halle-Vilvoorde there are already fewer on-the-spot stops because the Brussels labs are not always available due to work in Brussels. This should not, in principle, happen. In concrete terms, this is, of course, an effective obstacle to a policy of persecution in Halle-Vilvoorde, and certainly in terms of the priority objective of the public prosecutor's office, namely the home burglary. Here, of course, trace research is extremely important. I therefore have questions for you, Minister. How can a lab be provided for Halle-Vilvoorde? What options are there? Can resources be made available so that the Halle-Vilvoorde parish can have its own lab? What timing do you put first? Finally, what measures can already be taken by the fifteen police areas of Halle-Vilvoorde to deal with the situational and occasional absence of the Brussels lab?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u106	Mr President, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, both in the short term and in the slightly longer term, has been provided for a number of measures to ensure adequate technical and scientific support in Halle-Vilvoorde. In autumn 2015, the necessary staff implementations were normally carried out. In the meantime, the FGP will continue to support Brussels until the end of March 2016. This is then transferred to the FGP Leuven and to the FGP East Flanders. In concrete terms, we provide for the following four measures. Already in January 2015, the police decided to send six inspectors from the general reserve of the federal police to the judicial federal police of Asse to carry out technical police missions there for facts of home invasions in the judicial district of Halle-Vilvoorde. At the moment, an inspector has already arrived. The arrival of the five others is scheduled to take place in June 2015, in particular at the end of the training for candidate inspectors, which will expire on 30 May 2015. These six inspectors will follow a light training course for technical and scientific police, consisting of 60 hours of lessons over ten days and will be internships in one of the three labs in the area of Asse, in particular Brussels, Dendermonde and Leuven. At the end of their internship they are operational and take over the orders of the technical police for facts of home invasions in the judicial district of Halle-Vilvoorde. Pending their own technical infrastructure for Asse, they may use the technical infrastructure of the Brussels or Dendermonde labs to process their evidence and traces. At the same time and with the aim of accompanying those inspectors, the central management of the federal police technical and scientific police will send an officer with experience in technical and scientific police to the future laboratory of the FGP Asse. In addition, the general management of the judicial police and the DJT provide logistical resources such as track cases, cameras and two vehicles. As regards the facts affecting the physical integrity of individuals and for which the so-called Watch Crime ensures assignments, four Chief Inspectors of the FGP Asse have been fully trained in technical and scientific police since March 2015. This training consists of five months of lessons and one month of internship. At the end of their training, scheduled for 1 November 2015, because there is no training during the summer months, these policemen return to the future lab of Asse. Furthermore, in January 2015, at a meeting with the judicial directors of the judicial districts of Halle-Vilvoorde, Brussels, Leuven and East Flanders, it was decided, inter alia, that the FGP of Brussels will continue to ensure the Watch Crime in the territory of the judicial arrondissement of Halle-Vilvoorde until 31 March 2016. From 1 April 2016, the guard crime will be carried out by the FGPs of Leuven and East Flanders, in support of the staff of the Asse lab, until the lab is fully operational and autonomous, namely in the course of 2017. Finally, taking into account the number strength, the remaining vacant places will most likely be opened for the Halle-Vilvoorde lab, in the organic table 3 of that arrondissement, in the large balancing mobility announced for the federal police in autumn 2015. As far as your third question is concerned, several of the fifteen police areas of the Halle-Vilvoorde judicial district currently have trackers trained to carry out certain tasks of technical and scientific police in the case of home invasions. The collected evidence and the recorded traces can still be forwarded to the laboratory of the FGP Brussels, where they will be processed. Once Asse's lab is operational and has a welcome, the evidence and recorded traces will be handled there. Finally, the police zones that so wish may register some of their staff for the next recognized light training in technical and scientific police, together with the inspectors of the future Asse lab. In the course of 2017 there will be a fully operational lab in Asse. In the meantime, interim measures are being taken to ensure that the service is insured.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u107	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for the short and long-term measures. It is very important for my region that we also have a lab so that we can investigate these burglaries properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u108	Minister, the federal police have announced their decision to stop using the term "gypsy" as a means of categorizing individuals in their files. We can only rejoice in that. However, we are, at least, very surprised to learn that our police used to use such an ethnic criterion to identify certain people in their work. This announcement, which implicitly acknowledges that this was a violation of the 1992 Act, obviously calls for many questions. In particular, I would like to hear from you on the following points. First, the question is what steps will be taken to completely clean the files of any such reference. It is not just a question of no longer resorting to practice; it must also be stopped for those who have been victims of it, even without their knowledge. Secondly, I would like to make sure that no other population group is stigmatized in the same way in police procedures. Finally, one cannot help fear that, if such a way of working has been going on for so long without the great world appearing to be moved by it, it may be a sign of deep-rooted prejudice in services against certain groups. It is therefore urgent to consider what measures are being taken to combat these prejudices.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u109	Ms. Ben Hamou, the federal police committed themselves to changing the vocabulary that might, in the eyes of some, seem outdated, but not to erase data. It is important to stress that the processing of the data referred to in Article 6 of the Law of 8 December 1992 on the protection of privacy with regard to the processing of personal data is fully legal, on the basis of Article 44.1 § 2 of the Law on the Police Function. If people are registered in the general national data bank, it is because they have committed offences or because they have been victims of them. There is therefore no registration of persons solely on the basis of their ethnicity. The indication of the quality of the perpetrator or victim allows only to study certain facts or phenomena or to search for certain authors when other criteria are not sufficient, in the case of persons without a known identity document or domicile. Section 34 of the Police Function Act prohibits identity checks on a subjective basis such as ethnicity. Moreover, the police do not treat this data in any way in a statistical way, as this information is not recorded in a mandatory field and is therefore not systematically provided. The drafter of the minutes shall be entitled to record the information provided that, in his or her opinion, it has an operational value such as an interest in certain searches. These lists contain all kinds of notions that are useful when recording certain information from the minutes such as "white", "factor" or "police" or "politician". All this information is useful in the day-to-day work of the people on the ground, without any profiling in any way, as has been mentioned in the press. The police raise awareness of gender issues and racism through, inter alia, information and training, the activities of the diversity unit within the Federal Police and its networking with federal police entities and local police areas, reporting incidents to the Inter-federal Centre for Equal Opportunities and Combating Racism, on the basis of the Act of 20 January 2003. Finally, we are committed to changing the vocabulary in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u110	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am pleased to learn that the necessary steps will be taken in this area. I would like to say that this designation made by the police only reinforces stereotypes and prejudices towards this community, which already suffers from its stigmatization.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u111	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demon's 3731 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 3735 by Mr Vanvelthoven, pursuant to Rule 127 (10) of the Rules of Procedure, is withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Maingain's 3739 was postponed. Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht Mrs Gerkens' 3746 is withdrawn under Rule 127 (10) of the Rules of Procedure. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Degroote's 3748 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u112	Mr President, have you been informed that I can stay until 5.30 p.m.?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u113	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u114	I would like to answer Mr Nollet's two questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u115	Mrs Thoron has her question No. Then there is the question No. Mr Metsu, Mr Metsu, Mr Metsu, Mr Metsu, Mr Metsu, Mr Metsu, Mr Metsu, Mr Metsu, Mr Metsu, Mr Metsu, Mr Metsu, Mr I will have Mrs Lahaye-Battheu inform her that her questions Nos 3778 and 3780 can no longer be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u116	In 2012, the press reported that radioactive water was permanently escaping from the pool in which the nuclear fuel from the Tihange reactor was stored. This problem was known to the AFCN since 2006 but was not resolved at the time. Weld cracks were apparently not only difficult to detect but also difficult to repair, given the presence of heavy and highly radioactive structures in the pool. The minister at the time reported that the pool was losing two litres of water a day. Today I would like to review with you the situation of the swimming pools at our various nuclear power plants. Has the problem now disappeared or does a certain leakage rate continue to be detected? What is the current situation on each of the power stations? Is a water meter before the filling valve installed on each of the pools or is it still limited to the presence of a level detector? Is the current measurement system qualified to stand up in the event of accidental conditions, in particular the autonomy of the power supply which may occur in crisis situations? Do some measures still need to be implemented? Is the size of micro-cracks found in swimming pools measured? Has it evolved over time?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u117	Mr Nollet, the leaks in question concern the Tihange 1 pool. Weld cracks in the Tihange 1 pool are indeed difficult to repair and the problem persists. In Tihange 2 and 3, depending on the pool filling, limited leaks may appear temporarily. There's no problem with Doel. A residual leak like this one is not detectable by measuring the level of the pool. Given the size of the pool and the amount of water, the evolution of the level related to micro-cracks is very slow. The level measurement is intended to monitor water levels in swimming pools. This level may decrease as a result of water evaporation, but also in the event of an incident, especially in the event of a leak in the cooling and treatment system of the swimming pools, which has many valves. As regards the evolution of the leakage, the flow depends in particular on the temperature conditions. The origin of the leak has not yet been precisely located and is therefore not measured. However, such a flow corresponds to a crack of less than one square millimetre. During the last week of June 2015, a suction cup will be put in place to accurately locate the leak in order to consider welding repair. This intervention will not take place until the work in the pool building within the Tihange 1 LTO investment programme is completed. Following the post-Fukushima actions, Electrabel installed additional and autonomous level measurements with water supplement in case of an incident. These autonomous systems are qualified for extreme accidental situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u118	As I understand it, the problem is still unresolved. It dates back to 2006. You did not say in your answer, but according to my information, the problem dates back to 2006. It's pretty unimaginable. The suction cup to locate the location of the micro-crack will be placed in 2015! The problem persists in Tihange 1 and Tihange 2 and 3, which is temporary. For plants that need to be completely secure, we are far from the point of view! The urgency is all relative in this respect. As far as water measurement is concerned, you say that this is not measurable. But how do we know then that the impact is minimal? I don't understand very well. By water level? Okay, so I can understand. But why don't we put a water meter before the water arrives in the pool? We would then be certain that the problem is upstream.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u119	As I understand it, there are several reasons why water can be lost, not just a leak, but also evaporation and other causes. Water should therefore be added due to leaks but also for other reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u120	I'll take the time to analyze the answer you're giving me and eventually get back to it. I will at least follow the works as they are announced for 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u121	Minister, an INES Level 1 incident occurred this Friday, April 10, 2015 on the IRE website. This incident appears to be related to a loss of leak on a circuit allowing the capture of rare gases at the beginning of the day of medical radioisotope production. Can you tell us more about the chain of events? We know that the event was relatively quickly controlled; and fortunately the radiological impact of the rare gases released on workers and the surrounding population appears to have been characterized by low radiotoxicity. Nevertheless, the production activity had to be suspended. What concrete corrective and control measures have been put in place and according to what timetable in order to completely eliminate the risk of reproduction of the problem? Can you also tell us when the local authorities were informed of this incident and what has been put in place to inform the local population?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u122	Mr Nollet, my answer will be long and detailed. The devil is in the details. The release of rare gases to the environment was caused by a leak on the rare gas collection system associated with the dissolver used in the production of radioisotopes. Prior to the actual beginning of the medical radioisotope production process, all routine controls were performed. As all the controls, including the circuit leak test, gave positive results, radioisotope production was allowed and started. At the time the rare gases began to be released, operators found that the flowmeter and radioactivity measuring devices placed at the level of the rare gas capture systems did not indicate that the radioxenon activity was properly captured. In parallel, the radioactivity monitoring system located in the production laboratory indicated an increase in the dose rate in the laboratory. Next, the monitoring system of the radioactivity at the stack indicated a release of rare gases in progress. This was due to the fact that the rare gases that had escaped from the capture system were recovered by the ventilation system and made their way through the pipes to finally arrive at the chimney. The production operators directly tested all the equipment in the rare gas capture system and found that the leak appeared to have occurred at one of the equipment located on the rare gas capture system. As the rejected activity exceeded the daily authorization limit and at the time of the reactive inspection conducted by AFCN there was uncertainty as to the origin of the release, the Agency decided to suspend immediately – and in consultation with IRE – the operation of the dissolver and its circuits associated with the production of medical radioisotopes. The suspension of activities specified that the operation of the dissolver and its associated circuits could resume as soon as the IRE had met the following four conditions. First, the IRE must verify each of the elements of the rare gas capture system and identify the origin of the leak and therefore of the release to the environment. Secondly, on the basis of the detection of the origin of the leak, the IRE must take the necessary corrective measures and thus eliminate the possibility of a new release due to the same cause. Third, the IRE must conduct a satisfactory cold leak test throughout the circuit. Fourthly, the IRE must propose a waste management solution for production on 10 April, which was interrupted by the incident. As a result of this event, the IRE investigated its origin and concluded that it was due to a defect on one of the equipment of the rare gas capture system: a clamp had been poorly tightened. This defect was caused by inappropriate handling of the production operator after the circuit leak tests. Another minor anomaly was found on the same circuit, but it did not play a direct role in the incident and was immediately corrected. In terms of corrective measures and immediate improvements, the IRE has extended the scope of its pre-production leak test to ensure that the entire system is leakproof. He also organized a major training and awareness-raising session for his production staff on the new method used to conduct the leakproofness test and the feedback from the event. In particular, it was necessary to insist on the obligation not to engage in any manipulation other than those necessary for production after the test. The other conditions mentioned above have been met. Beyond the short-term actions imposed on the IRE in order to be able to resume production, AFCN and Bel V asked it to propose a detailed report of this incident within 60 calendar days, taking up all opportunities for improvement. The aim is to avoid a recurrence of such an event or, at the very least, to be able to detect and manage it, so as to reduce the release to the environment. With regard to communication, IRE directly reported the event to AFCN and Bel V and immediately notified the mayors of Fleurus and Farciennes, the governor of the province of Hainaut and the crisis centre of the incident. AFCN posted a message on the home page of its website on Monday, 13 April. The maximum radiological impact on the population, workers and environment of this event is very limited. Only some rare gases have been released and these are characterized by extremely low radiotoxicity as they cannot bind to a human organism. Therefore, the doses caused remain far below the legal limits for the population. Clearly, the release resulted in a dose of up to 3% of the annual legal limit. After analysis, this event was classified as an anomaly at level 1 of the INS scale.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u123	I would like to thank you and your colleagues for the very comprehensiveness of your answer. We see that the situation is taken seriously. This is an important element in such situations. I will take the time to analyze the answer and perhaps even wait for the report, which you are announcing for about sixty days. I would like to commend the immediate response of Fleurus and Farciennes. You remember earlier debates about other incidents. Apparently the work is bearing fruit in terms of information. On the other hand, I find it a pity that we waited until Monday to disseminate the information on the website, when the incident occurred on Friday. Can you tell me if the activity has resumed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u124	Yes. She took over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic146x.u125	Thank you.
