ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u1	Madam President, before we begin our work, I wanted to thank you for your visit this morning. It was very interesting; I thank the services for it. I would also like to ask the minister to thank the soldiers who welcomed us. I would also like to ask you to excuse my colleague Sevastian Pirlot, who injured his back when he arrived, and who, through my voice, asks to postpone his questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u2	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u3	Madam President, first of all, I would like to join with Mr Fernandez Fernandez in thanking us for the interesting and instructive visit we were able to make this morning. The next visits are likely to be of this nature. Minister, the former Minister of Defence, Mr De Crem, already made a number of decisions with his transformation plan, such as the closure of several barracks. The leaked documents from the army top also mention the closure of 35% of the barracks. Of course, this is evident from documents that have not been consolidated, but many military forces will inevitably have to switch to another barracks as a result of the transformation plan. Moreover, it is already the case that soldiers sometimes have to work in a barracks located on the other side of the country. Some are on the road for hours, sometimes even four hours, to go to their workshop, which is often not easily accessible by public transport. Following the transformation plan of former Minister De Crem, several military forces have moved or fled due to these geographical changes. Of course, it would be unimaginable if those involved, or other personnel, had to move again. At present, commuting is not or is hardly covered. In this connection, I ask them the following questions: Firstly, is there any possibility of better compensation for the commuting of persons travelling such long distances? Secondly, if your strategic vision opts for the closure of barracks, will you take into account its geographical distribution and the residence of the military? Finally, are you prepared, for example, to keep open at least one barracks per province in order to ensure that the military work closer to their home?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u4	Madam President, Mr Top, thank you for your question. I will give both the thanks of Mrs Fernandez Fernandez and yours to those who were responsible for the reception this afternoon. On the question of compensation for commuting, I refer to my reply to the written parliamentary question No. 184 by Ms Julie Fernandez Fernandez. For your question about the future of the barracks of the future, I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that it refers to situations of "if' and of "if' and thus to catalog as "what could happen if all our aunts had beards'. Your question is therefore somewhat premature.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u5	Minister, I am not surprised at your answer. The reference to Mrs Fernandez Fernandez's written question is, of course, not the problem. It is likely that such an answer will still be given to questions from me or from my fellow Members. Madam President, there is a great deal of concern about the future of defence and their workplace in general among the military with whom we sat at the table this morning. They wonder whether they can still stay in the barracks on which they are currently employed or whether they may have to move to another place. I can tell you by heart that those concerned have expressed their concern, and perhaps not only at the place where we visited this morning, but also at other places. For this reason, I would once again urge a thorough and, if necessary, rapid response to the questions of the military, both in relation to their workplace and to the related future of their commuting and the related remuneration. After all, a good defense also expects good military, which was also announced today. The answer was that good and young people would possibly leave Defense in the present period, should there be uncertainty. I wouldn't want the DOD to lose its best and good people before the plan gets published.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u6	There are only good people at the DOD.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u7	Let us describe them as the best people.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u8	Minister, we are aiming for a younger and fit army, but the attrition remains a major problem in the army. Many young people who start military training do not finish them. Given the lower recruitment rates and the fact that Defence will face a major pension wave in the coming years, we must continue to motivate young people within the army. It is important to know why young people leave the army exactly early. I have the following questions. In the private sector, there are exit talks in some companies with employees who leave the company of their own will. Is this also the case with the Defense Department? If yes, are results available? What are its main conclusions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u9	Mr Top, this is a question on an important subject. In the Defense Department, exit interviews are taken from all candidate military personnel who leave the Department of Defense on their own initiative or on their own. That data is available. I would like to refer you to my answers to the written parliamentary questions. 21 of 22 October 2014 and No. 159 of 26 February 2015 by Ms Karolien Grosemans. The data is available. The general trend is a constant trend.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u10	What are the main conclusions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u11	It is a lot of figures, Mr Top. The fact is that measures have been taken in certain units which appear to be effective. However, these effects are offset by increases in other units and we cannot always put our finger on them. The general trend is fairly constant. However, this does not alter the fact that attrition for Defence is a recognised phenomenon. People with wrong expectations may need to be detected earlier and not admitted. In the school for petty officers in Saffronberg a number of small measures were taken which really did not cost much money. I am thinking, for example, of the Internet in the room. These measures do have an impact on the fact that people stay. It often doesn't take big things. We are dealing with this matter in substance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am pleased that the DOD is making the necessary efforts to limit this outflow in the future, because that also costs some money.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u13	However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the problem often arises when it comes to recruitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u14	That's right. From the experience of my previous work, before I went into politics, I know that the wrong perception of recruitment often gives rise to a wrong choice of the new recruits.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u15	Minister, a total of 237 cases of desertion were registered in the Belgian army in the period 2010-2014. One speaks of desertion in an illegal absence of more than fifteen days for officers and more than eight days for other military. Last year there were 12 candidates and 12 soldiers. I would have liked an answer to the following questions. Does the Department of Defense have desertion rates before 2010? How can we interpret the figures for 2010 compared to the figures for 2010-2014? How can we interpret these figures compared to other years and possibly also per degree? Is there also a discussion at desertion with the military in question? If so, is there also a pulse for the reasons of his or her desertion? What are the main conclusions? What sanctions are linked to desertion? How many of the deserters still remain in service in the longer term?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u16	Mr Top, of course I have those figures. I'll deliver it to the secretary of the committee later. In 2005 there were 48 cases of desertion, of which 12 were Petty Officers and 36 were volunteers. In 2006 there were 69, of which 2 officers, 12 petty officers and 55 volunteers. In 2007, there were a total of 76 cases, of which 1 officer, 11 petty officers and 64 volunteers. In 2008 it was 63, of which 2 officers, 14 petty officers and 47 volunteers. Finally, in 2009, there were 54 cases of desertion, including 1 officer, 8 petty officers and 45 volunteers. Mr Tim Vandenput has also asked a question about this in the past, namely Question No 6, by Mr Van den Broek, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. 136 of 10 February 2015. The figures suggest that desertion rates have been declining in recent years. The ratio between the different categories of staff remains roughly the same. That is to say, approximately here is the law of the small numbers 2 % officers, 18 % petty officers and 80 % volunteers. Desertion could be a criminal prosecution. At the same time, the DOD can impose disciplinary sanctions after the military was heard. The content of these conversations is not kept, of course because of the privacy. There are no statistics available of military personnel remaining in service after desertion in the long term. That also has to do with the progress of the dossier, once something has been dealt with, that also disappears.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u17	Madam President, Minister, the answer is somewhat in line with the previous question on well-being at work. I welcome the fact that together we can see that the figures are falling and that there is effective work being done on personnel policy in the defence sector. I hope, along with you, that those figures can continue to fall. Perhaps this committee should not know, but of course it is always good, as with the attrition, to find the reasons for keeping people away from work. The reason can be motivation or another reason, and then it can be played down to get those figures down. Of course it belongs to the internal kitchen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u18	Minister, your predecessor, Minister De Crem, stated that the Department of Defense carried out checks on the social media of military personnel on mission. If it is established that publicly disclosed information poses a security risk to the Defence Department or to an employee, the data subject who has made the information public shall be asked to remove it. There would therefore be internal guidelines on information security, security of information on operations and the safe use of information resources in the Defence Department. In the event of an infringement of the directives, an investigation may be initiated which could lead to disciplinary sanctions. I would like an answer to the following questions. Are you still working in the same way under your command? Have controls been carried out again in this legislature? How much has actually been done since your appointment in relation to military personnel who may have placed sensitive information on social networking sites? If this is the case, what measures were taken then and what sensitive information was it about?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u19	Mr Top, the control of the use of social media by military personnel on mission is still taking place in the same way as you have described very precisely. Some identified cases were the subject of a security investigation followed by a rebuttal of the person concerned. Defense doesn't keep statistics on this. How do we prepare the people? As soon as the task has been prepared, operational information will not be disclosed. Each soldier receives a briefing on the use and dangers of social media during the preparation of an assignment. In addition, the general management of communication has published a brochure on social media for all Defence personnel on its intranet website. Who's checking it out? The Force Commanders shall have the task of sensitising their personnel to the risks associated with the use of social media. Since the use of social media is not legally prohibited, infringements are dealt with through the corps. We speak of sensitive or delicate information when the assignment or safety of staff, colleagues or, perhaps even more importantly, the family is compromised.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, from which I can conclude that it is only a few cases. I'm glad it's not here anymore. Social media can effectively pose a threat to military personnel, especially to military personnel on mission abroad and also to their families. I am therefore pleased that this is being followed, that it is only on a few dossiers and that work is being carried out through the corps commanders, including preventive measures. I hope that this will continue to be followed up in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u21	Mr Top, I believe that the limited number of cases also indicates that prevention works.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u22	Of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u23	Madam President, Minister, in the preparation survey you told the state agencies of possible successors to the F-16 fighter aircraft that the Belgian Defence should contribute to deterrent. You did not exclude nuclear deterrent capacity because you asked for deterrence and no conventional deterrence. Firstly, what is your position on the incorporation of the nuclear aspect into the specifications that Defence will have to provide in the context of the replacement of the F-16? Secondly, should the possible successor of the F-16 be able to carry out a nuclear task? Thirdly, has that decision been made yet? If so, by whom? If not, when and by whom will this decision be taken? Will the government consult Parliament on this matter beforehand, or will it let it decide?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u24	Madam President, Mr De Vriendt, thank you for your question. The answer to your question is part of a government decision regarding the purchase of a successor for the F-16, which is not yet under discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u25	Mr Minister, this is how our work will progress. That's a good tactic. But of course, you're getting rid of it very easily. I wanted clarification on the term you have already used. The preparation survey is an existing document.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u26	I'd like some answers to that. Of course, it looks nice in the media to try to figure out something about files that I didn't even draw up. I would like to remind you of the date on which the survey was drawn up. I wasn't a Secretary of Defense back then. That is a first point. You can take out what you want and you can tell the media what you want, but I can only rely on what I have told you, what I have said and written. It is, of course, your job as a member of the opposition, which you do well, to try to find out and connect more to it. However, you cannot ask me to defend myself against intentional trials. I can only inform you of the information I have provided at a rather long committee meeting and a subsequent one devoted to the survey and the answers I have given to various questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u27	You accept the survey, don't you?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u28	I've established that the survey is here. The results of the survey are currently being studied by the Staff. You can act on the basis of limited information. If I am told today that there are things that we cannot compare on the basis of the survey, I take it from the specialists in this area. We'll see. I have answered you that it will be a government decision, and that is perhaps the most important of the whole answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u29	I understand that, but you are going to continue with that document and you are not planning to change it. So you must understand what that document means. You must understand the terminology used in that. What does the term "shut-off" mean to you? You will continue with that document. Is it conventional or nuclear deterrent?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u30	Mr De Vriendt, once again you are trying to attach more importance to that document than it actually has. As has been said several times, explained and explained, twice by a specialist on the subject, the document is a survey, comparable to a visit to the Motor Show at the time one wants to buy a car.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u31	I'm just asking questions, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u32	That's your right. I'll give you answers. That's my right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u33	I would like to ask what you mean by a document that goes further and under certain terms used in it. I note that you do not answer that question. You will continue with a document, with which you want to buy a billion dollars for the Defense Department, in particular a successor for the fighter planes. One of the things you're putting forward as the current Secretary of Defense is deterrence, deterrent. All I ask is what you mean by that term. Is that conventional or nuclear deterrent? You have to be able to answer that, don't you?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u34	Again, Mr De Vriendt, you would like me to say that the survey is crucial for me to take the next step in replacing the F-16. As I have already answered several questions in this committee six times, I shall do so again. We will replace the F-16, in accordance with the coalition agreement, and when the time is right we will clearly define our need for that replacement in a schedule. A market-exploratory survey has been done by my predecessor, which serves as information for me, but nothing more than that. There is no choice that will be made based on the results of the survey. The answer to your question will be the result of a government decision. When that decision is taken, it will be communicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u35	You must know the meaning of the questions you ask. If you don't know the meaning of the question you're asking, what's the point? Then you can simply ignore the question of whether it is important whether they can serve as deterrents. If you cannot tell Parliament what you mean by the term "shut-off', nuclear or conventional, then what is the point of asking that question? I note, however, that you do not wish to go into the legitimate questions I am asking. However, it is an important matter because it concerns our nuclear strategy. That is not just something and it also largely determines the choice of the successor. You know that the F-35 is best suited to transport and use nuclear bombs. For example, that is much less the case for the Gripen. After all, the Swedish Government has imposed on Saab to be very careful about this. The Rafale can also transport a certain type of nuclear weapon but clearly a different type of nuclear weapon than the B61. These are all important questions, because we are talking about a billion-dollar buy-in that this government is behind, despite my group. I note that you cannot even explain what you mean by the term "shut-off' you use in a particular document that you continue with. That's downright disappointing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u36	It is requested that the aircraft can contribute to deterrents. It is up to the various state agencies to indicate to what extent they can contribute to deterrents. How hard can it be?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u37	What kind of deterrent do you mean, nuclear, conventional or both?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u38	It is up to the state agencies to say what they mean by that. Do I need to be much clearer? I'd like to say it in the micro again. The question is asked about deterrents. The state agencies may indicate to what extent they see this deterrent. How much clearer can I be?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u39	How do you see it? That's the question. You've prepared that question...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u40	No, I didn't make that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u41	You will continue with that document.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u42	No, I don't. That's what I've said four times. Ask a new question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u43	You will continue with the document because you are not going to design a new document. Will you design a new survey?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u44	(...).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u45	So this was the first step. Unless you say that the survey is completely irrelevant, I believe it is a certain step in the whole process. You're asking a question there. I ask you to specify that question and you cannot answer it. You say they give space to the agencies to decide for themselves...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u46	I'll try to explain again, for the umpteenth time today. A survey is a survey. The survey provides us with information and insight. The need for what the successor of the F-16 will or will not be able to do will be the subject of a charge book, which in itself will be a decision of the government. I can't be much clearer anyway. Why do you want me to answer for questions that have been asked in the past? I am happy to answer the questions, but you want to make it appear as if the survey could in any way be a definitive provision for the choice that will be made in the future. However, this is not the case. We will first determine what we need, and that is a government decision. On this basis, we will address the market as it should be, according to the legal provisions. You yourself have tried to have the survey recognized by law as more than it is. This didn't work. It has also become clear that the survey is nothing more than a market investigation. So I consider the survey to be a market research. I do not wish to question your knowledge, but I know that I am being assisted by experts in this matter. A survey can give these experts some insights, but that's where it ends. As for the needs in the replacement of the F-16, that will be a political government choice. I can't be much clearer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u47	Mr De Vriendt, you may repeat one last time, but everything has been said on this subject for now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u48	You are quite clear, Minister. Still, I'll try to get something out of you. You say it's a government decision. Well, may I hope that in the strategic memorandum of defense it will be clear whether you want to effectively assign a nuclear capacity to the successor of the F-16? If something like that isn't included in the DOD's strategic paper, then where is it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u49	The Defence Strategic Note will also be a government document.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u50	I hope so. If it can be an opposition document, we will participate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u51	Minister, in the Netherlands, a scientific research committee has concluded that many Dutch military personnel with an Islamic background are confronted with criticism from their private environment of the missions they carry out in Muslim countries such as Iraq and Afghanistan. Even in the fight against the extremely violent IS, they should often have to justify themselves in family and friends, which can lead to moral problems. The main military image of the Dutch army therefore calls for intensive support of the military Muslim community and a doubling of the number of Islamic clergy within the armed forces. The Dutch Defence announced that they would study the proposal to work with four instead of two imams. Workers of different religions and beliefs are also welcome in our army. Defence has a service for religious and moral assistance for the army. The chaplains and moral consultants of this service contribute to the well-being and the psychological and emotional stability of the staff, especially during foreign assignments and in critical situations. In the Land Defense Commission of 4 June 2008, your predecessor, Minister of Defence Pieter De Crem, said that he intended to provide a chaplain service to Islamic worship in our army as well. He said it was an obligation, because otherwise we did not operate in accordance with the legal provision and that each recognized religion should have at least one chaplain of our own. As a result of the Dutch study, I would like to ask you a few questions about the situation in our country. How many chaplains of Catholic, Protestant and Israeli worship do our army currently count and how many moral consultants? Meanwhile, does the DOD have an Islamic chaplain? If so, since when? If not, why not? The Dutch army would count about three thousand soldiers with an Islamic background. In our country, Defense does not keep any information on the religious or philosophical background of military personnel, as this information belongs to the privacy of its personnel. Is it nevertheless possible to estimate the number of soldiers with an Islamic background? Can the study from the Netherlands teach us anything about the situation in our own country? Does the DOD know of religious or social dilemmas in military with an Islamic background going on a mission in Muslim countries? If not, do you think it would be useful to examine the situation in your own country? Should Defense consider the introduction of a chaplain's service of Islamic worship as a means of better supporting Muslim military morally?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u52	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the well-being of defence personnel is, of course, important as in any company. I think the honourable Member's question is correct. My question starts from a different angle. Two months ago, in the Committee on 10 March, you announced that in recent years a number of radicalised ex-military forces were active in Syria. At that time there were two active Syrian fighters. Defense confirmed that these are not the only military with extremist or radical ideas. It goes without saying that we do not want individuals to receive military training in Belgium to radicalise and use the learned skills elsewhere, against our national and international interests. We believe that efforts should be made to counter radicalisation within the Defense Department. In prisons there has been a long time working with Islamic chaplains. Islam consultants have recently been involved in the fight against radicalisation. Given the increasing radicalisation in general, it would not be a bad thing to use Islamic consultants/poachers in the army as well. As Mr Grosemans has said, in recent years there have been intentions to work on this. How's that going? Do you have any figures on chaplains from other religions in the Defense Department? Are you prepared to employ Islamic chaplains in Defense? Has there already been consultation with representatives of the Islamic community on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u53	Mrs Grosemans, Mr Yüksel, the first plan dates back to June 2008. When I took over the department, no steps had been taken, but there are certain reasons for this. Currently working at the Department of Religious and Moral Assistance of Defence a total of 16 chaplains. Of these 13 belong to the Catholic, 2 to the Protestant and 1 to the Israelite worship. In addition to the chaplains, 6 moral consultants work for the service. To date, Defence does not have a permanent representative of the Islamic worship service because of the lack of the statutory framework. That's the formal reason. There is no such statutory framework because contacts with representatives of the Islamic worship did not lead to the identification of representatives representative of this faith group, given the different approaches within Islam. Every time the need arises, punctually an Islamic representative is called upon. So punctually, people outside of Defense are asked to perform. As far as the religious beliefs of soldiers are concerned, there is indeed no record. It would be punishment if the DOD did. Consequently, an estimate of the number of Islamic military personnel in the Defense Department is impossible. Defence only knows of a single situation in which an Islamic military conscience had concerns about an operational deployment in Muslim countries. Finally, it is important to bear in mind the precise role of religious and moral assistance. It may sometimes seem a good idea to give additional orders to certain services, but the mission of religious and moral assistance is to ensure the services of worship and to provide the necessary moral and religious support to Defence personnel if it so requests. In the context of radicalisation, defence has other services to guarantee security and the fight against radicalisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In the Netherlands it works differently. There they seem to have these concrete figures and they do not find it a problem that it belongs to privacy. We don't have a visual on this. By the way, when one asks whether there are nobility people in the Defense Department, one does get lists, while that may also belong to privacy. If it's really a legal provision, it might be good to get a look at the number of Muslims in the Defense Department. I do not think this is really necessary, but in the case of hundreds of people, it might be interesting to examine with the Dutch fellow Members how they deal with this precisely with the different approaches within Islam. I would like to comment on Mr Yüksel's question. Mr Yüksel, I think that is a dangerous question, because you give the impression that military forces are somehow more susceptible to radicalisation. I believe that combating radicalisation within the army should not be the only reason to employ a chaplain. We must ensure that these Islamic chaplains are certainly not seen as snitches, but that they really serve to provide spiritual assistance to military Muslims.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u55	Mr Grosemans, I would like to take this. I have clearly stated that the focus of my question lies elsewhere, but I agree with the question of using consultants for the welfare and morale of the military. Let's get that straight. I'd like to ask questions that fit in with actuality. Minister, I am surprised that no further work has been done in the defence sector since the first proposals in 2008. Two more cases. The Islamic worship service is in general, regardless of the radicalisation, long-standing party asking to participate in it. The reason why this has not been achieved so far would be the different currents. I do not think these arguments make sense, because today, and for some time now, chaplains have been referred to in hospitals, rest homes and prisons by those same representatives of Islamic worship. I would therefore ask you to look into this in full with the Defense Department and to ask the appropriate authorities, particularly the representatives of the Muslims, and very specifically I am thinking of the Muslim executive, how this system has been worked out for hospitals, prisons and rest homes. I have another question, Minister. You said there are other services for radicalisation in the Defense Department. I'm not talking about safety, but how do we deal with that problem? What services are involved in this today? What are they doing very concretely?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u56	Mrs Grosemans, Mr Yüksel, I will ask for a new contact with the representatives of Islam to see if a solution can be found. That's a promise I can make. You ask a second supplementary question, but I have already answered questions about it here in committee. They can certainly be found in the reports.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u57	Then we come to the combined questions about the strategic plan for Defense. Mr De Vriendt, the cabinet is asking whether your question No. 4560 may be added? [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u58	Madam President, Minister, the government agreement requires you to propose a long-term strategic vision within six months. The deadline was laid on the first Friday after the Easter holiday, especially Friday 24 April. However, after a week of consultation with the main ministers in the government, that date proved not feasible. Firstly, what is the basis for the delay in the strategic plan for defence? Secondly, to what extent have you so far consulted with other European Member States, EU institutions and agencies in order to reach the choices that need to be contained in the strategic plan? Are you aiming for a division of labour? You understand the importance of that question. Thirdly, the related question on environmental analysis. Your website contains a note on the Belgian security environment until 2030. It's a kind of context analysis, an environmental analysis. Will that be an effective part of your strategic note? This document raises a number of questions. I quote on page 4: "The enormous Russian nuclear arsenal makes the European NATO countries permanently see an important role for the alliance on nuclear deterrents. Do you accept that NATO has a nuclear mission until 2030? Will you make proposals within NATO to ease secrecy, such as the Netherlands, or to call the nuclear task into question? How do you reconcile this with the resolutions already adopted on nuclear disarmament in the Chambers and in the Flemish Parliament, including in plenary? I quote on page: "In Libya, on the other hand, successful military action by European countries has not been followed by an equally decisive civil-military stabilisation phase. Because of this lack, not only Libya but an entire region, including Mali, was destabilised. Why is there no recommendation in this strategy paper to strengthen non-military links in foreign policy such as diplomacy, development cooperation, conflict prevention? Does this admission of guilt mean, at least, that Belgium will pay more attention to the non-military part during and after operations? How, for example, can we see this in the ongoing mission in Iraq? What is the consequence of the Belgian non-military contribution to Afghanistan? Fourthly, why do you not repeat the recommendation of the majority parties in Parliament to de-escalation and a new partnership with Russia? Finally, should defence integration be bottom-up or top-down within the European Union? Your note, or at least that environmental analysis, seems to be based on an army that needs to be widely deployable and capable of doing everything. I believe that defence planning is needed within or between the EU Member States.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u59	Madam President, Minister, in La Libre Belgique on 9 May, we were able to read that the strategic plan was finally becoming clearer. It was reviewed by the small government. The first chapter on the safe environment has been validated. We learned that a working group had been set up and that you were leading it. This group is expected to develop the budgetary, capacity and organizational aspects of Defence in the future. In addition, until the end of the legislature, the government will examine annually the need to make available to the Defence the sum of EUR 100 million in liquidation credits to repay the debt and in commitment appropriations for the realization of investments. This decision is paradoxical after the severe budget cuts decided by the same government, which affect your department. Minister, what exactly is the status of your strategic plan? What is the precise timetable? Will the Chamber be involved in this timing? How? Who is the working group for the strategic vision and detailed plan? Are the social partners involved in these discussions? Can we have information on the agreement reached in Kern on the way forward on the future of Defence? Under what mechanism and criteria will the government decide whether or not to extend your budget by EUR 100 million per year? For what purpose exactly? How can we understand this decision in view of the savings of EUR 1.7 billion imposed by this government on your department?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u60	You have a second question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u61	Mr Minister, this second question is complementary to the one I have just asked you and concerns the interview you gave on 20 May at La Libre Belgique. We read that you are making proposals to identify the strategic functions of Defence. So you want to find a match between external analysis and Belgian policy. So, Minister, can you put forward these proposals? In the same press, a figure of €63 million was quoted for the operational budget. Can you confirm that? On what basis is it calculated in view of the unpredictability of international news? Finally, you say you manage to find money if you need it. What reality does this cover, particularly with regard to the international operations that you intend to carry out?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u62	Madam President, Minister, the coalition agreement states that you will develop a long-term strategic vision that expresses a view on the future of defence. In terms of timing, the different explanations contradict each other. You said several times that the plan would be against the Easter holiday. Budgetary control, however, states that the final vision of the future will not be there until the end of this year. In addition, as has already been mentioned by other colleagues, we have been faced with leaks from this plan for some time now. The plan would have already been proposed at the Council of Ministers on 8 May. A first part would have already been approved. I'll come to my questions. What exactly was agreed at the Council of Ministers? What was accepted, and what wasn't? What timing is on the plan right now? What arrangements were made for the future in terms of content and form? How is this further discussed, and with whom? What timing will be used? Finally, when will Parliament be involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u63	Madam President, Mr Top, as you know, the report by the Council of Ministers is public. There is no reference to the presentation of a strategic plan. No strategic plan was discussed at the Council of Ministers on 8 May. A meeting of the nuclear cabinet took place on 8 May. I would like to come back to what is in the coalition agreement. It states that within six months of the government's accession, the Minister of Defence will present a strategic vision on Defence. I did. Mr De Vriendt, you can make it 24 April, 22 April or even juttemis, I don't care. I presented my strategic plan to the members of the government after the Easter holiday, as stipulated in the government agreement. During the nuclear cabinet of 8 May, the analysis of the Belgian safety environment was approved until 2030. That is the document you will find on my website and on several other websites. That is an analysis, and no more than that, which is the basis for the strategic plan of the Defense Department. A policy working group has been established, comprising defence specialists from the Prime Minister's offices, Deputy Prime Ministers and the Minister of Defence. The Working Group was instructed to further develop a number of elements, namely the positioning of the Belgian Defence in the security environment, including its core tasks and their link with strategic functions, the evolution of the future contributions of the Belgian Defence to more European integration, a short-term budgetary framework and long-term, and the great principles that will lead the Belgian Defence of the future, including inter-departmental and international military cooperation, whether or not bottom-up or top-down and specialisation in development lines or task specialisation. All these elements would be part of this working group. The working group will also look at the financial mechanisms related to the implementation of the Belgian Defence Strategic Plan. On the other hand, Mr De Vriendt, the definition of NATO's tasks and their communication are not part of the strategic plan of the Belgian Defence Agency. I make an analysis and establish, but NATO's tasks are not part of my strategic plan. The strategic plan is planned, as foreseen, by the summer recess in terms of strategic choices. The effect will be after the recess, as has already been mentioned many times. Contacts with the various stakeholders, including the social partners, our strategic partner countries and international institutions, will take place on a regular basis during each phase of the elaboration of the strategic plan. For example, I received my Dutch colleague last week in Ostend and in Lombardsijde. In the initial 2015 budget, $63 million was provided for Program 5 of the Defence budget, i.e. the "implementation" or operational program. During budgetary control, this amount was revised on the basis of the operational plan approved by the Government and increased to $66.5 million. A small margin is provided for the preparation of the budget for unforeseen operations. However, if there are more substantial interventions, it is clear that the government will have to take on its responsibilities. That's what I meant by "get by" in the interview in La Libre Belgique. With regard to the operation in the Mediterranean, one part will be paid by Frontex and another part will be drawn from our own funds. If there were other cases, we would need to make further decisions. I'll use the conditional mode twice. Mr De Vriendt, I come back to your two specific questions concerning the analysis. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is an analysis. It's your right to ask for intentions. As I mentioned earlier in the Chamber, a decision will only be a decision if it is a government decision. Questions about my intentions today are in itself premature. I have made a number of proposals. I reject your statement that we are doing everything we can. I've been very clear in and about my analysis. I have heard little comment, including from organisations that are further away from what I am politically opposed to. My analysis is pretty accurate. She'll be the basis for the choices we'll make. If you say I'm in favour of a broad and deployable army, I'll say yes. I've taken the whole preparation seriously. I have studied this very seriously. I didn't fail to invite people to share their views on paper. From a public colloquium, to which the committee members were also invited, I abstained on two important issues: firstly, we must continue to bet on an army that can be deployed and, secondly, the army must be broad and adaptive. It is clear that every future of a Belgian Defence will be centred around two main axes: first, international cooperation and more European integration and, secondly, more inter-departmental cooperation in the interior. That has already been communicated several times in this way. It seems obvious to me that we will make some specific choices. Those choices are only made when a government decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u64	Minister, you answered the question clearly as to whether we should go to a broad army, and you replied yes to that. That is particularly unfortunate, because I do not think that this is a realistic option, because it would require an investment in all components far beyond the budget. On the one hand, there is the budgetary reality that will require us to make choices, and on the other hand, there is the opportunity of the fact that there is already a European cooperation on defence. Then why does our country still need a large-scale army if we can specialize? We have that opportunity, we have that space. That is why I asked you to explain a little more about the discussions that have already taken place with other European countries. I had hoped for a fairly detailed overview of what has happened during the negotiations over the last few months and years. Which country can do what and what do we take? I don't understand that choice. She's not interesting, and she's not feasible. Madam President, when should I have a discussion with the Minister about this environmental analysis, if I cannot do it here?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u65	I'm willing to give you the analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u66	Then why don't you answer my questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u67	You're asking for intentions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u68	You said this document was approved by the nuclear cabinet. Your adagio is that the government has to decide, well, this is decided. I have asked three questions about a sentence in this approved nuclear deterrent document and you have not answered them. I have also asked you four questions about the civil-military stabilisation phase, but I have not received an answer either. That was my first and second questions, and you did not answer my third question on de-escalation with Russia.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u69	Mr De Vriendt, I would very much like to discuss the document that has been approved, but you ask me about intentions and conclusions that are linked to the analysis and follow-up that is being given to it. These are matters that have not been decided today. If things haven't been decided, I can't talk about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u70	But it's decided, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u71	The analysis has been decided, but if you ask questions about NATO, I say that NATO's tasks are not part of the Belgian strategic planning. That's the bottom line. The questions you asked are questions that will be answered in the future. If you are asking questions about civil-military cooperation, I would like to give you my personal opinion on this: I do think that we can do much more. We have capacities today that we can use, but we will only have an agreement on them when we have an agreement on everything. It's as simple as that. It'll be a government decision. I understand that you want to have that discussion, but when the choices are finally made, you will find that we will not do everything. Defense is by definition multi- and inter-generational. This means that we are dealing with several generations. We must therefore be open to wide use, and we must be able to adapt. The effects of today's decisions, by definition, will reflect in 10, 12 or 15 years' time. That is why we need to ensure that we remain open to action and think of the wishes that the political world or society might have at the time. I therefore share with you a number of principles. However, you ask me for a very specific interpretation of various issues. The analysis has been approved. I'd like to discuss it, but I don't hear any questions about the analysis itself. I hear questions about the conclusions to be drawn. I would also like to discuss this with you, but not in the context of this discussion, because those decisions have not yet been taken. A minister speaks for the government. That's the habit, isn't it? There is no government decision on this matter. So I can't answer that. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u72	Mr De Vriendt, I think that was a very clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u73	However, I have a reply, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u74	No problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u75	Minister, I do not think this is serious. This is a document approved by the government and I would ask you to clarify that document. I'll repeat my questions. On page 4, you write: 'The enormous Russian nuclear arsenal', which means that the European NATO countries will continue to have an important role to play in the nuclear deterrent alliance. I asked you whether this means that the government accepts that NATO has a nuclear mission until 2030. So let me ask you for clarification. I would ask you to discuss with us the meaning of that sentence. I also ask you how you reconcile this with the resolutions adopted in the Chamber and in the Flemish Parliament. I also asked why in the first part of the strategy paper, in the environmental analysis, there is no recommendation to strengthen non-military links in foreign policy, diplomacy, development cooperation and conflict prevention. Why is it missing? Isn't that a clear question to which you can answer? Furthermore, why, in this context analysis, do we not see the recommendation of the majority parties in Parliament to de-escalation with Russia? These are clear questions which do not relate to government decisions, but to this document. Where am I supposed to have a discussion in this house about something that you yourself say is the basis of your strategy paper? It's an important chapter after all. On which forum should I exchange views?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u76	It's the most important chapter. Once again, Mr De Vriendt, in my note you are quoting them, but I do not have them here at hand to say that there is a huge Russian nuclear arsenal. That's the determination we make in the analysis of the environment. Are you fighting that Russia has a huge nuclear arsenal? You'll fight that off?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u77	In the remainder of the sentence, you say much more than that. You say that you do not have the document with you and I will read it again: "The enormous Russian nuclear arsenal means that the European NATO countries also have an important role to play in the alliance on nuclear deterrents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u78	That's a statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u79	I also know that Russia has a nuclear deterrent, but what does this mean for NATO and for Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u80	This is a finding from the first chapter of a plan that starts for the first time from an analysis which should be the starting point for a number of decisions. You ask what decisions will be taken. This has not yet been decided within the government. I cannot therefore answer that question. If you're asking me why isn't there any more commitment to diplomacy, development and law and order. I believe that I have already explained in detail what my vision is and what role Defence can play in this. This is the analysis. We learn lessons from Libya. We admit that what happened in Libya should not be an example for the future. We have intervened in military terms, but no follow-up has been given to the problems of the past which we face today. This is the base we're leaving from. Specific choices are made in the following chapters. Wide deployment does not mean that we will do everything. We're not doing everything today either. Widely applicable means that we remain active in the different dimensions. Let me give you one example. What if we were to abolish the frigates and specialize in mine hunting? Mine hunters are still somewhat friendly and sweet because they do not hurt anyone. I believe that everyone could live with that. Let us then talk at European level about the task specialization of hunting mines. At European level there are 50 mine hunters. You're asking who I've been talking to. In all my talks, it is not about how others can help us to spend even less as Belgium on Defence. No, first and foremost, we want to know to what extent Belgium will contribute and then we want to see whether cooperation is possible. If people here in Parliament think they can talk to people about carpooling after they first sold their own car, then I think they are wrong. That is the information I get in the discussions with all our neighbouring countries, with representatives of the EU, NATO and the UN, with the stakeholders we are dealing with. We talk to these people regularly and we try to go somewhere together. This morning, of all people, I had a visit with the Japanese ambassador. He also said that if Europe needs to do more, we should also contribute. That's basically what it's all about. You really shouldn't think that by job specialisation we will achieve a solution because we will have to spend less and be able to ride with someone else. I know a country where that is possible, but I can tell you that it does not work that way internationally.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u81	Mr. Secretary, I didn't talk about savings in defence. You're making that clutch. I've been talking about specialization. In recent weeks, there has been an interesting sort of a leak or a rumor in the press, which I do not know if Belgium would invest in the purchase of tanker aircraft, for example. Effectively, within Europe there is a capacity gap.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u82	That's why there's another question on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u83	We already know the answer, because we visited the 15th Wing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u84	I am just saying that we have to have the debate on specialization, and that is not necessarily about savings. You're talking about a large-scale army. I propose to invest in capacity gaps, on which agreements should be made with other countries. I think that's the logic itself. We must be able to have a concrete exchange of views.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u85	What is the reason for you to assume that I wouldn't rely on capacity gaps?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u86	Because you don't mention them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u87	Of course not. It's up to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u88	But you're talking about a large-scale army.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u89	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u90	A broad army is not feasible with the current budget. It is not desirable either, because we are already working with other countries...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u91	(...) of a constant budget, yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u92	...with which you can make arrangements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u93	Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, do you have anything to add?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u94	Minister, I note that what has gone to Kern is a catalogue of intentions that will become a strategic plan in the summer. We will therefore, I hope, have the debate on this strategic plan at the beginning of the parliamentary year. Since we are on the agenda and not on the agenda, Minister, I would ask you not to forget the aspect of aid to the nation represented by the army, the work of Europe's defence and therefore the role of Belgium, as well as the important duty of memory. Like my colleagues, I will come back to the debate on the strategic plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u95	Mr Minister, I will limit my reply, because a lot has already been discussed between Mr De Vriendt and you. You used great words in a previous committee and said that you would make choices. I haven't noticed any of that to this day. You are now talking about a document containing declarations of intent, but otherwise I have to say from the discussion between you and Mr De Vriendt that these choices have not yet been made. On the contrary, you are once again assuming a broad-based army. In connection with the budgetary resources that we know, I have the greatest doubts, like the previous speakers, as to whether this is feasible. I will conclude with a question, and I agree with Mr Fernandez Fernandez's comments on the next decision in the plan. Is this a confirmation that it will be communicated to us after the summer? Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u96	I'll answer again, for the umpteenth time. I have already told Mr De Vriendt that he is asking for my intentions, and I cannot answer them. I am speaking on behalf of the government. A full plan was proposed to the government. The task of the political working group is to refine this and to identify the budgets and refinements needed. If you like to say today, on the basis of the information you have, that no choices are made, then please, Mr Top, it will be a matter for me. I know what choices I have made and what conversations I have made, both internally with the Defense Department and with my colleagues, and I know where I want to end up. This is a very important discussion, which, for all I know, must be based on a different budget in the future. We will always have to make choices, because we cannot just do everything, but our choices must be coherent. Trying to provoke me about this or about it today would simply not be fair to what I said before. We'll have to offer a congruent story. There are a number of stitches. With a view to greater European integration, we are starting from international cooperation. For the interior, for löjaide à la nation, disaster situations and so on, we start from interdepartmental cooperation. These are a number of principles which I can tell you in a moment and which no one will object to, but we will carry them through in depth. We are linking a number of things to that. Anyone who wants to specialize today can tell me what they want to specialize in and what they no longer want to do. I know about you, Mr De Vriendt.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u97	You did not actually answer my question when this is being discussed with Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u98	That will be when the time is right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u99	So you take back your words about our colleague?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u100	But no! I started my reply by saying that I said at the time that I came up with a general vision after Easter. That's what happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u101	For Easter. By Easter, that was your first answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u102	I told you at Easter. I have said that before the recess we will come to a general strategic definition. We will also make choices about capacity and so on. After the recess, we will bring out a plan on how we will implement it in concrete terms, on the number of people that will be needed to do so and on what matters we will address. Apparently, the opposition members all want to close barracks, because they only ask questions about closing barracks. I haven't talked about a barracks yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u103	We are not talking about the closure of barracks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u104	I'll check your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u105	We are only asking when there will be clarity. That question is not from us. It's from the military.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u106	When will there be clarity? What do you want to hear? What kind of clarity do you want?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u107	I would like to make it clear when we will be informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u108	Do you want a good plan or do you want something that gives perspective to the Defense Department? I choose the latter. I won't be hunted, especially by you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u109	Just so we're clear, I'm gonna go with a solid and good plan. The only question is when are you going to bring that plan out? You just said it'll be after the recess. I hope, for the record, that this is about the 2015 recess.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u110	If that's the recess of 2016, it will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u111	In that case, you have constantly created anxiety by sending wrong messages to the world. That is the conclusion I have to make.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u112	Let me get this straight. From now on, we wait good and patiently and do not submit any questions about the strategic plan until the plan arrives. I wish I could stop them, as in the Flemish Parliament, but unfortunately I can't.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u113	Madam President, we will, unless there is another leak in the press. After the recess I come again to ask about the plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u114	Madam President, Minister, in the Central African Republic, precisely in Bangui, French soldiers are suspected of having committed sexual abuse of children between December 2013 and June 2014. The rapes were apparently "tricked" for food. Following the publication of an article by the British daily The Guardian, the Paris Public Prosecutor's Office confirmed that it has been investigating these allegations of sexual abuse since last summer. A judicial source revealed that 14 French military personnel would be accused by children. In his article, The Guardian explains that a UN report, classified as confidential, details the acts and that the children were able to identify their aggressors. The British newspaper points out that this report was initially kept secret. This shocked an employee of the organization, who then passed it on to France. Since then, this employee has been suspended and may even be dismissed. Mr Minister, while this sordid case in the Central African Republic is obviously not a matter for our army, it raises a number of questions. What legal framework does it apply to military personnel if such abuses within the framework of a UN, European or NATO mission are proven? How does Belgium stand against the proposals made by the UN Secretary-General to strengthen the zero-tolerance policy on sexual abuse? Does Belgium intend to support them? How can we understand in this case that this UN report was classified as top secret vis-à-vis the French authorities? How would the Belgian army react to such a report? What legal framework and reporting do they apply to our Belgian soldiers when they take part in a mission abroad? If such abuses were to be committed by Belgian military personnel, what would be the procedure for prosecution and possible sanctions? Is there a policy within the Belgian army to prevent such unacceptable actions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u115	Madam President, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, pursuant to Article 29 of the Code of Criminal Investigation, serious events committed or recorded abroad by Belgian military personnel must be immediately communicated to the military hierarchy, which, in the event of a criminal offence, shall immediately transmit this information to the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. In addition, operations with an international command, i.e. NATO, UN, etc., also provide for a reporting procedure for the chain of command of the operation. Belgium also supports the zero-tolerance policy put in place by the United Nations organisation. Statutory and/or disciplinary criminal sanctions may be imposed depending on the particular case. With regard to the prosecution of criminal offences committed by Belgian military personnel abroad, article 10bis of the Act containing the preliminary title of the Code of Criminal Procedure states: "Any person subject to military law who has committed any offence in the territory of a foreign State may be prosecuted in Belgium. The same applies to persons who are attached, in any capacity whatsoever, to a fraction of the army in foreign territory or to those who are authorized to follow a troop force that is part of it." Finally, it should be pointed out that the preventive aspect is also important. Thus, the prevention of any violent behaviour and, in particular, sexual abuse, is the subject of the rules of conduct recalled during the pre-deployment training, pre-mission training session. The Federal Public Prosecutor's Office and the Military Judicial Police also regularly visit the operational detachments. The purpose of these visits is, among other things, to raise awareness and inform members of the military in operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u116	Minister, thank you for the accuracy of your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u117	Mr Hellings, may I ask you to replace me as President from your place, because it is very tight here? [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u118	Minister, on 31 March 2014, the mandate of the former General Director of the Royal Museum of Army and Military History, the Army Museum, came to an end. You are undoubtedly aware of the malaise prevailing at the time. It wasn't a pretty picture in the press. At the committee meeting on 2 April, your predecessor, Minister De Crem, said that he had asked the Army Museum to update the decision to establish the orders of the Army Museum. In view of the renewal of the assignments and the possible consequences on the job description, the mandate of the General Director of the Army Museum was not declared vacant. Minister De Crem has therefore entrusted two scientists from the Army Museum with the day-to-day management of the institution. According to some articles in the French-speaking press, there would again be malpractice in the museum and an internal investigation is ongoing. Mr Minister, my questions on this matter are as follows. What is the donation of the Army Museum for 2015? How many civilians and how many soldiers does the museum currently employ? Were the preliminary management of the museum evaluated? Are the reports of an investigation into malpractice in the museum accurate? Will the position of Director-General be declared vacant again? When and under what procedure will this happen? What new content will be given to the function? Was the decision establishing the orders of the Army Museum updated? What are the assignments? What impact does the renewal have on the concrete operation of the museum? What future is the Army Museum in Defense? Will the museum remain a parastatal or is that still being studied?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u119	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the newspaper La Dernière Heure was a few days ago: "The military, persona non grata... at the Army Museum". The article once again highlighted the many difficulties in organizing the Royal Army Museum (RMA), which, as a federal scientific institution, operates under your supervision. Until April 2014, Dominique Hanson was in charge of the museum. At the end of his term of office, a Selor procedure should have been launched, but the Minister De Crem preferred to appoint an ad interim direction composed of two people, assigning them two missions: the change of profile of the future director general to be chosen according to a Selor procedure and the elaboration of a vision of the future for the Royal Museum. The newspaper was able to read about a "management plan 2015-2020" and summarized it by indicating that two problems appeared to arise internally, namely the civilian and military personnel dependent on the defence and the collections managed by the museum, whose free circulation would also be threatened. Of the approximately 188 people working for the MRA, 110 are considered in this report as "a factor of immobilism and confusion". It would seem that this duo has the ambition to transform the museum into a scientific institution by thanking as many soldiers as possible, and even volunteers who have worked there for years and who are accused in the report of having become "reputable pressure groups". It seems that everything associated with the army or the image of the Defense is strongly criticized, thus threatening your department's expertise in memory work. Finally, we learn that many pieces of collection could soon be destroyed. The duo sitting at the head of the museum aims to change their inalienable status in order to be able to separate themselves from a number of them, in line with what Minister De Crem had already decided. Minister, have you been aware of this report drawn up by the ad interim management of this museum, composed of Piet De Gryse and Christine Van Everbroeck? If so, what is your position with regard to the various tracks contained in it and which have been relayed by the press? More generally, what is your vision of the role of the historical and memory pole in Defence? What place do you give to the Royal Army Museum in this context? How do you intend to reinvigorate this institution in the long term, whose attendance figures have been in the dark for the last few years? Do you, like your predecessor, intend to favour the use of external companies for the organization of temporary exhibitions, instead of using the internal expertise of the museum, your department or the Federal Science Policy? Is there a willingness to separate from military personnel within the museum? If so, on what legal basis would this demilitarisation be organised and with what consultation of the social partners? What about the rumour that many pieces of collections have been destroyed in the past or could be destroyed in the future? Are alternative solutions possible? Finally, what about the internal investigation into the current management of the museum? How will this succession be organised both in terms of procedure and timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u120	We read bad reports in the press about the operation of the Army Museum. It's hard to overestimate the importance of that museum. It is located in a beautiful, defining location in Brussels and it offers one of the largest collections of military heritage in Europe. Are you aware of the negative impact of the previous director with a clear party political stamp, Mrs Fernandez-Fernandez, on the functioning of the Army Museum and on the current interim management? Why is the procedure for the appointment of a new management not started? When will the Royal Decree be amended and the mission of the Army Museum refined so that it can meet the needs of a contemporary museum in the 21st century? Are you aware of the heavy and cumbersome procedures, including human resources, due to the dual hierarchy of the museum? It is hybrid and contains a civilian and a military component. How do you think the Army Museum can accomplish its tasks and investments if it has to save so much? Can you confirm the following figures, in particular that the budget amounted to EUR 3.4 million in 2014 and that the budget fell to EUR 2.8 million in 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u121	For the Royal Army Museum and the Military History, where 183 staff are currently employed, of which 77 civilians and 106 soldiers, a donation of 2,740,000 euros will be provided in 2015. Compared to 2014, this is a 20% reduction on the operating expenditure, the same reduction by the government as for all public utility institutions with a notification dated 15 October 2014. The amount of money comes from Defence, but it is the same reduction that has been agreed for the other institutions. According to the information obtained from the KLM, no collection pieces were destroyed during the preparations for leaving Kappellen's depot. The future operation and organization of the Royal Museum of the Army and Military History and the missions assigned to it will depend on the outcome of two ongoing studies: on the one hand, the vision developed by the Defence Historical Centre for a comprehensive policy on the maintenance and enhancement of the military heritage and, on the other, the outcome of the information mission entrusted to the Defence General Inspection Services in order to identify operational problems within the MRA. In order to be able to fill in the open post of general director of the KLM, a job description must be drawn up by the competent body, a jury, in accordance with the competences that a general director should have. After weighing this job description and with the agreement of the Finance Inspector, Selor may initiate a selection procedure. However, a possible new interpretation of the position is for study. First we wait until historical pool comes up with a proposal so that we have a clear view of the nature of the management problems in the Army Museum.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u122	Minister, it is a very unhealthy situation. I feel that the situation there has been very messed up for years. There are two possible solutions. Either they set up a completely new management. For the staff, it must be extremely demotivating to work there. It's a bad situation for the beautiful museum itself. We should take the commission there sometime. Either they place it in another museum management, such as the Cinquantenaire Museum. That could also be a possible piste.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u123	Minister, the work of memory is a full and complete competence of our army. Defence is an essential and indispensable player in this work of memory and all that it involves, including in the investments, the scientific dynamism and the management of the staff, infrastructure and collections of the museum under your control. I asked you earlier, in your catalogue of intentions that will become a strategic plan, not to forget this work of memory. I would point out that, for the nationalists, and I quote Bert Maertens, "it is not for the Federal State to take care of education or culture, since these matters fall within the competence of the Communities." Therefore, let me be concerned about the future of this competence that comes to you today, when I see that the budgets, notably the Royal Army Museum or the CEGESOMA, have been drastically reduced. If this is obviously to be done with respect for the competences of each entity, then there must be a federalism of cooperation and not competition with regard to history and memory. We will therefore be very attentive to the development of this dossier, as much as we will be for the future of other scientific institutions under the supervision of your colleague, Mrs Sleurs. We have always been very attentive to these matters, both under the previous legislature and in our PS strategic plan for the future of Defence. Madam President, since you yourself have supported the unhealthy climate and the concern of the staff in your reply, may I ask you to organize a visit of the Defence Committee to the Army Museum, in order to express the political interest and concern of all members of this Commission for the future of this institution?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u124	I think that the committee's visit would be a good thing, because then we can all agree on the legacy of years of mispolicy that the museum must carry with it. I visited the museum myself a few years ago. Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, the former director had a clear PS stamp and excelled in incompetence in many areas. If you're really worried about the Army Museum, you're gonna have to stand up to the previous management. I think that the current management is trying to keep a great chastity there and make an effective effort to get better. That is what is needed. It is indeed one of the largest and most beautiful collections in Europe. Not so much the museum is beautiful, but the collection. There's a lot we can do with that. I hope you're familiar with the finery of the case. I read in your reply that you are working on it. That's why I'd like to ask you to go very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u125	I will certainly organize a visit to the Army Museum in the fall. I've just been informed there's enough staff to receive us properly. So that will go smoothly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u126	Madam President, I thank you for letting me speak despite my delay in participating in the work of the Committee on the Budget. Minister, as we all know, the Department of National Defence is, like all other departments, subject to the current budgetary framework. The savings to be realized are likely to affect all Defence services, and you will provide us with the exact figures in this regard. However, I would like to draw your attention to a particular and recurring issue in the press that I am particularly interested in: the future of the Queen Astrid Military Hospital. Indeed, several ways are envisaged to make savings within this institution. Before taking these measures, however, a number of elements should be considered. The Military Hospital is a facility that provides highly specific medical services to Defence, as well as to civil society. I can give you, for example, the department of the big burns, for which a skin bank was created. More than that, the hospital has a medico-military expertise accumulated for years. It is therefore necessary, if not imperative, that the savings made on the hospital budget do not result in the loss of such specialized services. Can you, Minister, assure me of your willingness to maintain all the medical features developed within the hospital so that it continues to provide state-of-the-art care to our military, but also to our citizens? Do not misunderstand the meaning of my question: I am talking about the current budgetary framework, and not about anything else.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u127	Mrs Wilmès, thank you for your question. I fully agree with your assessment of the competencies that are present at the Queen Astrid Military Hospital. Having said that, as I have already explained in the Committees of 17 November 2014 and 7 January 2014, it is too early to move forward on this matter. The government agreement does contain a sentence concerning the Queen Astrid Military Hospital, as it represents a truly significant budgetary cost. We will examine this case in detail. There is no back-thinking behind this sentence. As far as budgets are concerned, nothing has been decided. There are several possibilities available to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u128	Minister, thank you for your answer. I fully understand that you are at work and that it is difficult for you to be bombarded with questions while the work is under way. Of course, in the face of a change, it is also normal for us parliamentarians to investigate the future and to use this ability to question to draw your attention to it. Indeed, you have fully understood the importance of this hospital to both the military and the citizens, because many people can take advantage of the service of the great burns, especially the children. I'm staying on a positive note. I hear there is no ulterior thinking behind the sentence in the government agreement. I remain convinced that you will do your best in this matter, and I am pleased to have been able to draw your attention to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u129	Thank you, Madam President. You can see that our field visits served as we were able to learn, from the general's own voice, his methods. In an interview with MO* magazine in August 2013, General Testelmans stated that three attacks had been foiled on Belgian soil thanks to information obtained through the controversial PRISM software and transmitted by the NSA to the SGRS. He even said, "If the NSA hadn't relayed the info to us, we wouldn't have known." The Chief of Military Intelligence thus justified the structural collaboration that his service has with the American intelligence agency, even though the intrusive and disrespectful methods of NSA privacy have been known since Snowden's revelations. On 6 May the press revealed the contents of a report by the R Committee on this case. It is clear from the report that, on the question of the Intelligence Review Committee on this matter, the SGRS replied that the information provided by the NSA had not allowed "three attacks" to occur, but that these data had at best helped to shed light on a single case involving terrorist acts. It is therefore proven that General Testelmans lied and came to the aid of his American partner by justifying his questionable methods of general surveillance, in the middle of the Snowden affair, distorting reality and mobilizing false security arguments. Given these serious allegations, are you considering taking or can you take appropriate disciplinary action? Is such a procedure under way? Are Defence in general and the SSRS in particular considering partnering with the U.S. NSA and the British GHQ, which apply the same methods of general surveillance? If so, how? Could you tell me that despite the particularly strong structural and human ties between the SSRS and the NSA, our military intelligence service will never apply the principle of widespread Anglo-Saxon surveillance in its intelligence work?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u130	Minister, information was released on 7 May in De Tijd, indicating that General Eddy Testelmans, the head of the military intelligence service, deliberately gave false information in 2013 by pointing out that three attacks in Belgium were allegedly thwarted by the American intelligence services (NSA) when it was finally nothing, as indicated by the R Committee. The aim of General Testelmans was to emphasize the usefulness of the work of the NSA and the validity of its well-described PRISM espionage program. Of course, it would not be up to anyone, in the light of what is happening in the world, to question the extensive cooperation of intelligence systems in the fight against terrorism, in order to protect our countries from the risk of attacks. This is also the policy of enhanced cooperation that has been pursued even more forcefully since the attacks in Paris in January, with our European and overseas partners, as well as with many other intelligence services. However, the fact is a serious one. Of course, the aim of General Testelmans was also to strengthen the links between the American and Belgian intelligence services in order to ensure the best security for our country. However, it is policy to decide, negotiate, establish and monitor this cooperation policy in the light of reliable and unoriented information. So, Minister, I would like to know how you intend to act on Mr. Testelmans' actions. I would also like you to inform us about the evolution of cooperation between intelligence agencies in the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u131	Madam President, I will not recall the facts raised by my two colleagues. I'm going to go straight to the questions in this case. Do you confirm this information and therefore, do you confirm that the boss of the SGRS did give false information to the press in 2013 on a subject as serious as possible terrorist acts in Belgium? What about the three so-called foiled attacks? Did they really exist and, if so, how were they foiled if it wasn't via PRISM and the NSA, as Eddy Testelmans said? What exactly does the report of the R Committee quoted by the newspaper De Tijd say? Should it be considered that Lieutenant-General Testelmans has lied or that he has only been manipulated more or less unintentionally by his American counterparts? In all cases, is it indeed the role of this boss to give this type of interview to the press and to make such true or false revelations, with the aim of justifying an increase in the technical and legal means already available to him in the field of electronic intelligence? Did he not show some lightness by relaying, without much precaution, the information provided by the NSA, which itself sought to justify its own excesses in mass surveillance? Following this story, and as the appropriate minister, did you have to remind Lieutenant-General Testelmans of some basic rules?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, all the questions that have been asked go back to the same three points: the possible actions against General Testelmans, the cooperation between the intelligence services and the problem of widespread listening. General Testelmans publicly restated this interview in the context of the time, stressing his good faith. I do not find it appropriate to extend in public a possible disciplinary sanction or a reminder of the rules. This is an individual file that I will not discuss. With regard to cooperation with other intelligence services, the General Intelligence and Security Service will continue to carry out its tasks and responsibilities in accordance with the legal framework in collaboration with and on the oversight of the R Committee. This includes collaboration with foreign allied agencies. With regard to generalised surveillance, which is carried out without a pre-defined objective, it is not permitted under Belgian legislation. The methods of collecting information that the SGRS may use are either data collection methods (MRDs) or wiretapping of communications from abroad. In both cases, a listening must be justified, targeted and approved by myself, through the approval of the listening plan, and by the administrative commission responsible for monitoring specific and exceptional data collection methods (MSERD). I therefore confirm that we are not applying widespread surveillance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u133	Mr Minister, I have heard you correctly: you are not applying widespread surveillance. I'm convinced of that. But there are ambitions within the army, and in particular in the head of General Testelmans, to demonstrate the alleged effectiveness of general surveillance. That was the objective of his interview in August: to justify the effectiveness of a correctly criticized technique on all sides, because it is intrusive and violates privacy. In the case of the foiled attacks on Brussels in Verviers, the methods of collecting specific data from the Sûreté made it possible to avoid the attack, not information from PRISM, the NSA or the English, nor anyone else. These methods work and are effective. They can be improved, as we learned by visiting intelligence services, including the SMS. For example, it would be interesting to be able to capture information via Facebook, WhatsApp or Viber. But widespread surveillance is not effective, expensive and has been achieved by fundamental rights and privacy. I think that this episode should definitely direct us towards improving the current methods of data collection, which work or even improve them, but never move on to the Anglo-Saxon rule of generalised surveillance. It would bring us into another era, Big Brother's. Contrary to what Mrs Matz said, I do not think General Testelmans was manipulated, either by the NSA or by anyone else. I think he manipulated. Now, we acknowledge within the parliamentary forum that he tried to guide the political debate two years ago, justifying the methods of the NSA. I hope this chapter is finally closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u134	Madam President, Minister, as far as the person of General Testelmans is concerned, beyond the assessment that we can each have, it is up to you, either at a face-to-face meeting or in accordance with the necessary procedures, to take the necessary action. On the other hand, I think it was good to recall that it is politics that prevails in means and methods. It is clear that under the present circumstances we are open to an expansion of the resources made available, but this must remain within the legal framework. We can see it in France. The law has been amended with respect to information. This has given rise to much controversy, but the text has been adopted by the government and the socialist majority. Everyone has to sweep in front of his door.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u135	I'm not a socialist.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u136	I didn't say that. But you're part of the presidential majority. Minister, it is important that three parliamentarians have made you aware, if necessary, of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u137	Minister, I understand that disciplinary proceedings should not be initiated. At the very least, I think a small call to order for this kind of interview would be appropriate. I would like to say to Mr Hellings that my remark that he had been manipulated was ironic. Mr Flahaux, I am neither a socialist nor an environmentalist. I am not part of the French presidential majority, but the Greens are no longer part of it either. I don't want to defend anyone but to say what is. On the other hand, this dossier shows us how important it is to legislate beyond what exists for the preservation of a number of freedoms – as has been pointed out – but also for the preservation of our security. This difficult balance, in my view, is not achieved in France between the preservation of these two rights, the right to security and the right to privacy. There is still a temptation for Belgian services to collect information abroad and then to state that it was collected legally in Belgium. Through your visits, you have seen all the limits of the system. This issue will need to be seriously addressed, not to mention the data collected by the State Security Agency. We know that there are two systems that operate relatively independently. It needs to be better coordinated.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u138	Madam President, Minister, as we know, Central Africa is rightly at the heart of Belgian diplomatic action. This is demonstrated in particular by the action of our army in this region, such as the military partnership with the Democratic Republic of the Congo. A few weeks ago, Ministers Reynders and De Croo came to us in the Committee on External Relations to present their views on Burundi and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, following their last visit to Central Africa. During the discussions, we were reminded that, in accordance with your Government's agreement, the Government is committed to drafting a strategic note on our socio-economic, cultural and political relations with the countries of this region. For my group, National Defence must be fully taken into account in the drafting of this note in order to have a coherent and integrated approach, as required by the 3D strategy. So can you tell me, Minister, if your department is being consulted on the development of this strategic note? What is your vision of the potential role our National Defence can play in this region of the world? What do you draw from our on-site operations? Finally, at a previous committee meeting you mentioned a trip to Central Africa. Is this one still on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u139	Mr Crusnière, are you sure that this question is for me? I don't know where you were able to gather information about a trip to Central Africa.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u140	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u141	I visited Mali in December. Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u142	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u143	Defence has contributed significantly, and will continue to do so, to peace and stability in Central Africa through direct or indirect participation in peacekeeping operations or advisory and assistance missions, as well as through its commitments to military partnership programmes (MPPs) with the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Burundi and Rwanda. These MPCs are intended to maintain a level of expertise necessary to carry out Defence missions on the African continent and to contribute to security, stability and peace in that region. The aim is also to promote human rights, democracy, the rule of law and good governance. These programs are also part of a 3D-LO interdepartmental approach (diplomacy, defence, development, law and order) through coordination of efforts in the implementation of projects and thus concentration of effects. More generally, effective interdepartmental cooperation on issues relating to the positioning of Belgium in Africa is established through various bodies. Other commitments, particularly the MPCs, are being assessed on an ongoing basis. They have made it possible, directly or indirectly, to contribute effectively to the promotion of universally recognized values carried by Belgium or by the international institutions to which it belongs, to the protection of our national or international interests and to the valuing of Belgian assets on the spot. Finally, for the time being, I do not intend to go to Central Africa. I went there in December.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u144	Minister, thank you for your answers. You're taking stock of what's been done. I was mainly asking you about the strategic note that the government committed to preparing, as announced by Minister Reynders. In that regard, you did not answer me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u145	A note was presented last week on key partnerships by Minister De Croo.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u146	Indeed, but it was within the framework of cooperation. In this case, this is a strategic note that was promised by the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u147	The responsibility lies with him!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u148	My question was whether you were involved in thinking about this 3D strategy?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u149	Preparatory intercabinet discussions are taking place. The first part of my strategic note was approved by Kern a few weeks ago. It had been discussed in advance with the Department of Foreign Affairs. Of course, there is a need for a coherent policy vis-à-vis foreign countries and, above all, towards Central Africa.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u150	In the framework of the Committee on External Relations, we have launched a series of hearings on the situation in the Great Lakes region and we have asked to hear from you as well. I hope you can honour this invitation. We will therefore have an opportunity to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u151	Madam Chair, Minister, a few days ago I went with other Members of Parliament to the Spa barracks to discover the infrastructure, to meet with the 12th and 13th line staff. We were welcomed by a delegation from the CGSP. During this visit, I was able to learn that the Spa barracks would close throughout the month of July, which was a matter of great concern to the trade union delegation. Minister, what information can you give us about this one-month closure? Is such a one-month closure of a barracks a common decision for other military quarters?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u152	Dear colleague, I confirm to you that the Spa barracks are a beautiful barracks of great tradition. Closing for one month means that the entire unit is on leave during that month. This is a general leave. This doesn't mean there's no one at the barracks anymore. The neighborhood's always guarded. Persons who do not take their major leave during this month are also present in the neighbourhood during hours of service. The decision to leave the unit for one month is made by the Chief of Staff, depending on the unit's program and operational requirements. I can't give you another example, but this decision is quite normal and it belongs to the head of the body.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u153	Minister, I will be able to reassure the CGSP delegation that it was afraid that it would be the announcement of another intention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u154	I hope people come back after their holidays!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u155	As you announced that your catalogue of intentions would become a strategic plan during the summer in front of the government, they should be back before you presented it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u156	Mr Minister, you have to be careful about the following questions, because we have already heard the answer this morning when we visited the 15th Wing. Mr Vandenput simply wants to see if you answer the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u157	Minister, I would like to say that my question is not a trick question. I ask this question in response to a message in the media. A few weeks ago, we heard that the Netherlands, Norway and Poland will shortly submit a request to the Airbus defence and space division. This paves the way for a joint purchase of an Airbus A330 Multi Role Tanker Transport aircraft. In a programme facilitated by the EDA, the three countries hope to reach an agreement and sign the contract by the end of the year. It is reported that a maximum of four A330 aircraft will be operated as a single fleet. This will enable air-fueling and strategic transport for the three countries by the end of the decade. Belgium is one of the countries that has long been part of a military partnership to build up a European air-to-air refueling capacity. In NATO, we are now fully dependent on the United States, alongside Germany and the Netherlands, which also have this capacity. Are there discussions with the Netherlands, Poland and Norway to participate in the investment programme of the A330? If so, what are the results so far? Are there plans to equip the A400M units with flexible tanks in which fuel can be loaded, so that the devices can also be used as a multi-role tanker?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u158	Mr Vandenput, in November 2012, a letter of intent (LOI) was signed by the then Minister of Defence who expressed the will to establish a joint European Fleet Multi Role Tanker Transport (MRTT). Belgium, together with the Netherlands, Poland and Norway, is part of a working group set up within the European Defence Agency (EDA) to coordinate the study. A decision on Belgium's participation in the programme will be taken shortly. The fact is that we are continuing to follow the programme today. The air-to-air refueling capacity of the A400M is limited and the current installation kits for this are not compatible with the fighter aircraft with which Belgium currently operates. In short, it is not possible to refuel F-16. The purchase of such kits is therefore not included in the planning. That makes sense to me. You refer to the messages in the media. NATO has asked Belgium to build its own fleet of three MRTTs. So participation in the EDA programme is actually only a partial answer to the question that NATO is asking us. In any event, the acquisition of three MRTTs by Belgium would require a serious investment which would have to be registered in the then prevailing budgetary reality. A decision will be taken within the framework of the strategic plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u159	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. We look forward to the implementation of the strategic plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u160	Mr Yüksel, you are the only remaining questioner on the A400M accident. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u161	Madam President, Minister, on Saturday 9 May an Airbus A400M crashed on a test flight in Seville. In addition, four people were killed. There were also two serious injuries. Germany, the United Kingdom and Turkey suspended their flights on this type of aircraft until the results of the investigation are known. 174 orders of the type have been placed so far, 12 have been delivered effectively. Our country has ordered 7 aircraft of this type. The first is expected in 2019 and this is already with a delay regarding the original delivery period. Through your spokesperson, you said that we must wait for the results of the investigation before we can draw any conclusions on the Belgian order of the A400M devices. Did you receive the results of the investigation? If so, can you explain this further? What solutions are being sought to avoid such situations? Will these solutions entail an additional cost for a possible purchase of A400M devices, assuming that it is a technical defect? What attitude do you take towards the purchase of the A400M equipment for the army in the context of the results of the investigation and its follow-up? Does this incident mean an additional delay for the delivery of the 7 A400M devices, scheduled for 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u162	Madam President, my answer has been prepared in two languages, as a French-speaking colleague had also joined the composite question. I'll read it to you like that. Otherwise, I might make mistakes during my instant translation. Like other user countries, Belgian participation in testing and development activities on board the A400M was suspended pending the results of the survey. Indeed, there is currently a delivery delay for the A400M program of about four months. These difficulties already existed before the accident and are inherent in any major development program for a new military aircraft. In early 2015, Airbus took internal measures to address these delays. Deliveries for Belgium are scheduled from February 2019. There is nothing to prejudge at present a delay in the delivery of Belgian aircraft, but it is clear that the C-130 withdrawal schedule will be directly linked to the commissioning of the A400Ms with the aim of minimizing the impact of the transition of the two aircraft on military airlift capacity. With regard to the infrastructure needed to accommodate the A400Ms, the dossier is the subject of a decision within the framework of the strategic plan on the future of the armed forces. It is true that we are also looking specifically at where what is described in the coalition agreement as alternative forms of financing. The confidential investigation of the cause of the accident has been initiated by the competent authorities. The findings are not yet known and will be released in due course. The aim of such an investigation is, of course, to draw the necessary lessons from it and to avoid such accidents in the future. There is currently no indication of whether this accident would result in additional delays or additional costs in the developments of the aircraft.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u163	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u164	Mrs Jadin, the question has already been asked, but you can still replicate. That is what the Rules of Procedure provide.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u165	Minister, we all know that the security situation in Burundi is evolving very quickly. Firstly, can you give an update on the current security situation? Secondly, is Defense standing by with sufficient transport capacity to possibly carry out an evacuation of our compatriots? In that connection, what orders did the government give to the Defense Department? With which countries is there consultation? How will Defense ensure that sufficient capacity is available at all times for possible large-scale evacuation? Thirdly, which units are specifically trained to carry out evacuation of compatriots and the embassy on the premises? What numbers of soldiers, what equipment and what weapons are involved in this? Fourthly and finally, the Belgian embassy received a detachment of security agents from Defence. How many people are involved, and is the number sufficient for a possible evacuation or for other security measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u166	Minister, it was announced on 11 May that Belgium would continue military cooperation with Burundi, while the Minister for Development Cooperation stopped Belgian aid to the Burundi police. There are several collaborative projects, such as Train the Trainer and Coach the Trainer, in which Burundian officers are trained by the Belgian army. I heard from your cabinet that the situation in Burundi is being regularly evaluated and that there is no change in policy for the time being. Since then, however, there has been a failed coup in Burundi, which, of course, represents a significant change in the situation. Will the current military policy review cooperation with the Burundian army in view of the coup? Are you considering additional measures to ensure the safety of the many compatriots residing in Burundi? What guarantees do our countrymen in Burundi have in that regard today? Finally, some media reports that Belgian Special Forces are present in Burundi in preparation for a worst case scenario. Are those messages true? What preparations has Defence already made for different scenarios?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u167	Mr President, Minister, in your interview in the newspaper La Libre Belgique on Wednesday, 20 May, you indicated that ten members of the Special Forces of the Detachment of Security Agents (DAS) had joined Burundi. In particular, they were responsible for the protection of our embassy. Minister, given the increasingly tense security climate in the region, can you tell us more about the framework of this mission when many Belgian nationals (700 to 800) are present on the spot? In the same vein, does cooperation exist with certain Member States of the European Union to ensure the protection or even evacuation of Belgians and Europeans present on the spot in case of need or emergency?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u168	Minister, there has been great unrest since the failed coup in Burundi. There is a protest against the current president, who aspires to a third term of office. There have also been several deaths during heavy riots in the capital Bujumbura. Our country has several military cooperation agreements with Burundi. You also confirmed the presence of Defense forces in Bujumbura to protect the Belgian Embassy. What is the current military cooperation with Burundi? What kind of task is this? For what purpose, how many and what type of soldiers are involved? What was military cooperation with Burundi in the past? In your opinion, can we talk about successful cooperation projects? How will military cooperation evolve in the light of current circumstances? Will it continue? What action has the DOD taken since the failed coup? Is the DOD preparing to take further steps, for example in the context of a possible evacuation of compatriots? If so, which ones are they?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u169	At the time of the events, neither our compatriots nor foreigners were specifically threatened in Burundi and all the parties involved in the conflict called for foreigners not to be involved in the conflict in the future. The security situation in Burundi is constantly evolving and is continuously followed by, inter alia, Defence. The information on this is shared with the relevant administrations, including the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis, the OCAD, which is responsible for determining the level of threat. Consultation with other countries takes place on a permanent basis, through Belgian liaison officers working in military headquarters abroad and through regular meetings with countries with the same interests as our own. In order to evacuate compatriots, Defence may initially use its own means of air transport, supplemented if necessary by contributions from other nations or from the European Air Transport Command, the EATC. In order to have sufficient capacity for large-scale evacuation on a permanent and timely basis, there is a shift in the role of the Defence Department in which units can be called upon to be deployed quickly for an evacuation mission, if the situation so requires. The initial detachment for such evacuation mainly involves units of the light brigade and the air component. These units can, if necessary, be supplemented by soldiers of other specialities. For the size of the initial detachment, we assume a battalion of 800 to 1 000 soldiers, which, if necessary, can be reinforced in the fairly short term with 500 additional soldiers. As the Burundian election approached, the security arrangements of our embassy in Bujumbura were evaluated in a preventive manner by a joint Defence and Foreign Affairs team. At the request of Foreign Affairs, a team of about ten security officers was subsequently seconded to the Belgian embassy in Bujumbura. These soldiers are responsible for the security of the ambassador and the embassy. The bilateral relations between the Belgian Defence and the Burundian Armed Forces are mainly based on the military partner programme, which was launched in 2006. The programme is based on long-term cooperation, even if it is subject to a permanent evaluation, which also takes account of the political and military situation. On this basis, it was decided to continue on the one hand the ongoing training which is currently taking place in Belgium and, on the other hand, not to start new activities in the current circumstances. Quite specifically, the question was asked whether we would also stop working together. We do not have military personnel training in Burundi or whatever. There is little point in stopping this. Until the holiday there are still soldiers present, but I'm still talking about that. The main cooperation project with Defence is part of the security sector reform (SSR) and is mainly located in the field of the formation of Burundian military middle management in peace-support operations. It includes support for the basic formation and further training of officers, both in Belgium and Burundi. As I said, there were no military forces for training in Burundi at the time of the coup. In the field of capacity development, there were small initiatives such as physical education and sport instructors, commanding instructors and counsellors in the law of armed conflict. These trainings were also provided both in Belgium and Burundi. The success of this SSR approach can be measured, inter alia, by the fact that Burundi has become the second largest supplier of troops to AMISOM, an African Union peace support operation, with 5 000 troops. In addition, it successfully provides a contingent in the framework of the UN Mission MINUSCA in the Central African Republic. To be clear, there are still soldiers in training in Belgium, but we are not sending them back from today to tomorrow. However, we will not launch new initiatives until there is clarity about the situation in Burundi. The military who are here for a short-term training, normally just go back. I think it is one or two people who started basic training in the KMS. Current projects are finished, new projects are not started.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u170	Minister, thank you for your answers. Indeed, the security and protection of our citizens are defence powers. They must, of course, be carried out in consultation with external relations. I am reassured to hear that everything is proceeding properly in this regard. We must not give in to panic, but, as you said yourself, the situation is changing from day to day. The state of emergency requires our citizens to leave Burundi. I note that operational plans are planned. I also believe that intra-European cooperation is necessary so that we can intervene if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u171	I just want to thank the Minister for his answer. I have no further reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u172	Mrs Pas is not present for her question No. 4395.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u173	Mr President, Minister, in 2011 our Defence signed an agreement with the Netherlands and Luxembourg on the development of a smart cardigan. This was part of the BEST programme - Belgian Soldier Transformation - launched in 2003 and aimed at improving the individual equipment of our military. The Netherlands was appointed as a single contracting nation. When I last asked a question about this in January 2014, it was expected that the final contract could be concluded in the first half of 2014 and that the first prototypes were able to deliver some 40 service contracts in 2015. Meanwhile, however, the Dutch Defence Department faced several problems such as the theft of confidential documents concerning the project, ICT problems and a lawsuit brought by a manufacturer who was not chosen as a preferred partner. Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. What stage is the development of the smart vest currently taking place? What is the precise role or task of each of the participating countries? Is our Defence actively involved in the negotiations on the specifications, the economic return and so on? Do you have any idea of the possible economic return for our country? I mean if there will be an industrial contribution for our country. Which companies may be eligible for this? What are the consequences of the problems in the Netherlands, and in particular the lawsuit, for the project and for our participation in it? What are your expectations about the further development and realisation of the project? A total budget of EUR 5 million has already been committed for the project. Is this money still available? Will it take more to ensure our participation until the end of the project? This would be EUR 5 million for the development and production of the prototypes. At that time, the entire project would require EUR 143 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u174	Mr President, Mrs Grosemans, a common programme office was set up for the implementation of the BEST project, in which Belgium and the Netherlands are jointly responsible for the elaboration of all the modalities, such as the preparation of the specifications, evaluation, etc. Luxembourg, which also participates, is represented in the programme office by Belgium. Based on the joint operational and technical tests carried out in 2013 and 2014 with the pilot models of three potential suppliers, the preferred supplier for the smart vest was determined. According to current planning, the Netherlands will conclude a contract as a single contracting nation in June 2015 with the preferred supplier for the supply of a pre-series to all Benelux countries and a series to the Netherlands. For Belgium, an amount of EUR 5 million was committed for that series. The series for Belgium and Luxembourg are included in the contract as an optional conditional disc. The decisions for the series shall be taken after the joint tests of the pre-series, which take place in the first half of 2016. Following these tests, Belgium and Luxembourg will have a contractual period of six months to illuminate the optional disc. On the basis of the results of these tests and on the basis of the Defence Strategic Plan, the total budget for the series will be determined. The deliveries of the series are then foreseen from 2017 to 2019. The lawsuit brought by one of the rejected suppliers against the Netherlands as a single contracting nation currently has no further consequences. A final ruling is not expected before the end of 2015. The economic return will relate to the number of systems to be ordered by each participating country, according to the information I was informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u175	Minister, your answer actually sounds like good news, as a breakthrough. That file has been dragging on for ten years. It is a very important dossier, at least for the country component. It is also important for our industry. I am therefore glad that progress has been made. For me too, Benelux cooperation is very important. For the first time, I believe that a joint Benelux purchase is now taking place in the field of land-based systems. You are well aware that we consider Benelux cooperation to be very important. I am referring to the army of the Low Countries. I think it represents a step forward in cooperation between those three countries in conflict zones.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u176	Mr Pirlot is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u177	Minister, on 20 May this year, you said in an interview in La Libre Belgique that the F-16 mission in Iraq could be extended. You would have contacts with other countries to develop a system of turn-rolls. In this way, the countries would in turn use their F-16 debt holders to share this responsibility. In the interview you also state that you expect the decision to be taken in June. In addition, there is also a real chance that the mission of the reformers in Baghdad will be extended. It was foreseen that these would be on the scene for six months. It now appears that their presence depends on the demand of the international coalition in the fight against IS. You state in the interview that the formatters cost much less than the F-16... which makes it easier for an extension to take place. I have a few questions about that. On the basis of what evaluation is an extension of the mission possible? What is the content of this evaluation? What are the potential candidate countries to work out this turn-roll system for the deployment of the F-16 candidate countries? How do you see this turnwheel system in concrete terms? What has our participation cost us so far? If we are involved in a turn-roll system, what cost is attached to it? With what budget will this cost be paid?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u178	Madam President, I would like to add my voice to Mr Top's questions. The mandate of the Belgian contribution in Iraq ends at the end of June. There are contacts with colleagues of yours, including the Netherlands, to set up a turn role in which each country in turn would use F-16. Which countries are you negotiating such a turn role with? Until when does the mandate for the Belgian contribution to the Building Partner Capacity programme run? Is there a willingness within the government to extend the participation of the F-16s and the training mission? How long and at what cost? What budget would this be paid for?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u179	Minister, last week I read in the media that the Netherlands and Belgium are considering a rotational system to be present alternately in Iraq, within the framework of the international coalition fighting against ISIS. Both countries currently have six F-16s. The Belgian mission started at the end of September last year and ends at the end of June. The Netherlands must return by October due to a lack of budget. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have any specific measures already been agreed? If so, can you explain the numbers and financial resources that will be made available for this purpose? If not, when do you expect to know? Our F-16s only have a mandate until June. At the moment we are present with six F-16s, but there are also trainers and other soldiers present, as part of the training and advisory mission. Are they also covered by that rotation system? Within the current mandate, the mission ends at the end of June. The Dutch stay until October. Is there any clarity as to whether we will indeed return at the end of June, or would that period be bridged? Are you also considering a turn or cooperation with the Netherlands on other missions in which both countries participate?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u180	Mr Ducarme is no longer coming to the committee. The Minister has the floor for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u181	Madam President, Defence supports operations in Iraq with two detachments, a detachment F-16 and a detachment trainers in Baghdad. The mandate for the deployment of the F-16 service providers will expire at the end of June 2015 and for the trainers in Baghdad in principle in October 2015. The cost of this year's F-16 service is 33.3 million euros and 2.4 million euros for trainers. It has always been said that the battle against Daesh would be of long duration. It is therefore important that the campaign can be supported in the long term by the participating countries. The coalition headquarters shall draw up an overview of the needs and capacities over time so that countries can plan their participation in the longer term. In this context, there have been exploratory talks which have shown that synchronisation of the Belgian and Dutch F-16 contributions would be possible. After all, we have both been developed on the same basis. A joint contribution can greatly reduce, among other things, high recurrent deployment costs by, for example, maintaining infrastructure together. The exact elaboration of a possible joint contribution is currently part of study and negotiation. It is true that more steps need to be taken in the Netherlands than here. It is therefore premature to make a budgetary estimate now. The costs of the deployment will be included in the budget for international operations. In any case, any possible future commitment will have to be submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval. The commitment under the Building Partner Capacity has also been established internationally. The Belgian military are part of a joint Norwegian-Dutch-Belgian detachment. This cooperation has made it possible to greatly reduce the country's support deposits and the corresponding development costs. I had provided a budget to send 50 people, but by working with the others we could have reduced it to 35 units. Since the start of the Belgian military mission, about 1,000 Iraqi recruits have been selected and trained in basic training, first aid techniques and sniper training. The units trained in Baghdad, among others by the Belgian military, have an excellent reputation and tenacity in their confrontations with Daesh. For Iraqi soldiers, being trained by experts from the international coalition is also seen as a moral stimulus. According to the latest information available to Defence, units trained by the international coalition were not involved in the fighting in Ramadi. It would not be about a number of people that we have imposed. There were also intense questions about my planning. I am convinced that we must continue to contribute to the fight against the Daesh in the first phase, which has almost been completed, and in the second phase. I am indeed trying to obtain with a number of partners that we can alternate. That makes sense to me. I will also check to what extent there is a willingness in Belgium to extend the training mission. The fact that we are sending fewer people has enabled us to make savings, which would, if necessary, be possible within the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u182	Minister, you mentioned how Iraqis trained by our people get a boost of their morals, but I wonder whether you are also annoying. I do not know whether you have read the newspapers, both Dutch, French and foreign, from this weekend and over the last few days. In particular, the comments made by the US Secretary of Defense are read. He is annoyed by the commitment or unwillingness of Iraqi soldiers to fight. I wonder to what extent we have gone into quicksand. I'd say it's in the swamps, but there's no swamps there; it's more like quicksand. It'll be a long time, as you say. There is therefore no immediate solution. A second additional problem, the support currently being given on the ground to act against IS, is often from Shiite militias, with opposition from the Sunni population, in which IS currently operates a lot. It's getting dramatic on the ground, or it's still dramatic. I therefore have my doubts about the effectiveness of the deployment of our F-16 debt holders there on the spot. A further question is what additional initiatives will be taken. You mentioned initiatives with a turn-in mechanism and the commitment on the ground with our partners. If I recall correctly, a resolution was adopted on 24 September 2014 for the short-term deployment of our F-16 Tunisians in Iraq. One of the prerequisites was the development of the necessary diplomatic initiatives so that a more stable situation could be achieved. In any case, I would like to continue to call for the necessary diplomatic pressure so that there can be even more support for a stable climate on the ground. After all, I fear that we will not be able to resolve it with the military alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u183	Mr Top, I would like to agree with you if you say that we will not be able to solve it by military intervention alone. You'll never hear me say this. However, military intervention is part of the overall package. I am convinced that we must make a contribution if our partners are to do so. That's my personal conviction as Secretary of Defense. You say more should be devoted to diplomacy. I cannot evaluate what is happening diplomatically because I am not involved. You mentioned the statements made by my American homologous colleague. I'll leave his words to him. I can only tell you that the people trained by the coalition do prove themselves on the ground. I have no way of establishing this on the spot. I'll visit our men, but that won't be on the premises itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u184	It is clear, Minister, that it is being examined and that negotiations are needed. A number of steps must, of course, be taken in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u185	I hope I can say something definitive before we leave. The fact is that two of our generals will be travelling in two weeks to have a conversation with the authorities of the country where we are present on how to proceed. If we are to reach an agreement on a variety, then I will have to consider internally whether we are prepared to include it in the planning for the next few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u186	Yes, because it also implies a commitment for 2016. One more detail: do Belgian pilots stay on the ground to fly with?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u187	Pilots are definitely not staying on the scene. In any case, the agreement of the Council of Ministers allows us to be present until 30 June. In principle, everyone has to come back. If we are to reach an agreement on a flip flop, I will have to see very quickly whether we can not keep some of the maintenance personnel, never the pilots, there. Our pilots are flying with our F-16 gliders, other pilots with theirs. Now, however, we are speaking in the conditional wisdom. Let me put it another way: it would be interesting if continuity were to be maintained in terms of logistical support and maintenance and that we could keep at least a few people on the ground to ensure the functioning of the systems.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u188	Mr Klaps, the cabinet is dealing with question No. Question No 4516 and Question No 4518 together. So can you ask both questions at the same time?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u189	Madam President, Minister, when some state leaders or other VIPs visit, they may sometimes need an increased security regime. This can be done by close-in-protection, which means that individuals are closely monitored and protected by trained persons. Close-in-protection of important individuals is currently being done by the FPS Home Office. The escorting of important people on the road then happens again by the military police. So the question arises as to whether we should also be able to allow the MP to act as an escort and the close-in-protection of important people. That is why I have the following questions for you. Do you consider it desirable for the military police to be responsible for close-in-protection? What implications would that have on staff needs and costs? In that case, what legal certainty applies to the use of force? Following on from that question, I have another question about police powers. Today, the military police have no authority to deal with traffic breaches on public roads. Only when the military police are in charge of the traffic regime may they draw up a report against any road user who does not comply with the orders. According to the coalition agreement, the government intends to review the powers of the military police during its current term of office. It states: "In order to be able to act in the event of traffic infringements, the powers of the military police will be extended. However, this cannot have the effect of involving the military police to replace the regular police forces. Minister, do you think it is necessary and desirable that the military police should be given police powers? If so, what powers do we have? Where and when should they apply? If not, why do you not consider this necessary and desirable? Has the issue been discussed with the Minister of the Interior in order to put it into practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u190	Madam President, Mr Klaps, thank you for your question. In the performance of their duties, military police members are recognised as qualified persons, as it is called, for giving certain orders to road users on national territory. That capacity allows them to facilitate the movement of mainly military vehicles, which they escort in traffic, but not to ensure the safety of the escorted persons. The members of the military police also do not have the mandate to protect escorted persons from aggression. They are always entitled to do what is necessary, in legitimate self-defense if necessary. MP escort and surveillance are different assignments for each purpose. They need to be clearly distinguished from each other, in the face of the danger of neglecting the legal requirements relating to the exercise by an authority of specific tasks of administrative police. The relevance of the MP escorts therefore mainly concerns the aspects of punctuality guarantee, compliance with the established travel route, ensuring road safety and so on. The protection, both of persons, the so-called VIPs, and of the material and the security escort, in the event of a proven threat, is the responsibility of the police. In relation to the police powers, I must refer, noblesse obligige, to my reply to Mr Top's oral question in the Defence Committee of 19 November 2014. I'm of good will and I'll take it up with you. It is mainly about police tasks that can or cannot be taken over, with a view to elements that can facilitate the task as defined at present. We are working on a strategic plan and we are thinking about core tasks and so on. At the FPS Home Affairs they also do exercises around it. It seems obvious to me that we should consider to what extent we can give the correct powers to carry out a function correctly. At the time, I cited the example of the MPs who stand before Parliament, essentially in terms of security, surveillance, traffic control and so on. They may whistle and make their ears loud when a person commits a traffic offence, but they may not issue a ticket. If an order is ignored, they can only draw up a citizen-pv. I've been there myself with an escort. We passed a traffic accident. I'm gonna ask the escort to help the police make sure the traffic goes safely. They are competent to regulate traffic, but if their orders are not complied with, they are not authorized to draw up the corresponding minutes. For example, there are more examples.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u191	It is logical to strive as far as possible for this coherence in the responsibilities package. That's why we don't have to tie the military police with the police. Searching for simplification will make life and work easier for everyone. It'll make everyone better.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u192	Minister, on 1 March, the second battalion of commandos left for a foreign exercise at the Boletice military training camp in the Czech Republic. This exercise is part of the participation in the NATO Response Force. From 1 January 2016, Belgium will participate in NATO Response Force, the NRF, NATO's rapid reaction force, which can be deployed in the short term if all NATO Member States agree. Later this year there will be a certification exercise, an operational evaluation exercise and a major final exercise with all units participating in the NRF. So there is a full map of NATO's participation in this rapid reaction force. That is why I would have liked to have more information on this. What is the specific point for Belgium to participate in this NRF? How many soldiers are involved in this? For what period do the Belgian military take part in this? What are the costs of this participation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u193	Belgian Defence actively participates in intervention forces at the European level of the European Union Battle Group, the EUBG, and at NATO level with NATO Response Force, NRF. The NRF should enable participating countries to deploy in the short term troops capable of carrying out a wide range of tasks, including collective defence, crisis management operations, peace support operations, disaster response and protection of critical infrastructure. For the planning of the Belgian participation in the intervention forces NRF and EUBG until 2016, including its budgetary impact, please refer to the decision taken by the Council of Ministers on 7 September 2012. The participation in the exercise that is taking place in the context of the planned preparation of an NRF detachment in its mission. The deployment took place in phases, from 23 February to 14 March 2015, with about 650 participants of the second battalion commandos and support elements such as artillery and genius. Pending all invoices, costs are currently estimated at EUR 1.4 million. These costs were already foreseen in the training programme of Defence. In other words, the costs will be borne by the participating States. That is not cheap: EUR 1.4 million for a two-week exercise is a serious effort, but our partners expect it from us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u194	I do believe that we should take part in such projects. It is a good example of cooperation. In crisis situations, reactions are often needed very quickly. That indeed costs some money to participate in such exercises, but since it is already budgeted, that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u195	Minister, at the end of April the committee was given the opportunity to visit the intelligence services. That was an interesting experience for us and is the reason for my question. The coalition agreement of 11 October 2014 contains the following text: "Defense will have a modern military intelligence service, organised and equipped for the security of national interests as provided for in the law, and for the support of military operations. A study is being carried out on the role, powers, funding, internal organisation and capacity of the intelligence services, and cooperation between them, as well as on the direction and control of these bodies. On the basis of this study, an optimization of the operation takes place. This need will also be taken into account in the evaluation of the legislation on information methods." Can you give me an update on the study? Has the study started yet? What is the result, if any? Who's doing the study? Based on what criteria did you make that choice? When does the optimization of operation start? How will we realize that? Where are we on the evaluation of intelligence legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u196	Mr Top, it is nice that you found the visit to the ADIV interesting. This is important, because the ADIV will continue to be an important service for us. The study on the evaluation of military intelligence is an integral part of the current strategic reflection on Defence. The defence staff makes guidelines and makes proposals, on which I base myself to work out the strategic plan. That is an interactive process, in which I also ask questions, he answers and we come to a decision. In this context, a working group led by the General Intelligence and Security Service is carrying out a strategic reflection exercise. All participants in the Defence Intelligence and Security Community shall be involved. In the same way, proposals are being prepared to amend the law on information methods, the so-called BIM law, by participants of the ADIV, in conjunction with the State Security.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u197	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I can't replicate much of that. You mentioned the working group and you referred to the strategic plan. So I'm waiting for the strategic plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u198	That is very sensible, Mr Top.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u199	Madam President, Minister, this is not a topical issue. It refers to history, but at the same time it is topical because it concerns people who are directly affected by this issue. The Royal Decree of 23 December 2002 laying down the procedures under which the State shall provide free health care to various categories of ex-combatants and war victims, at the intervention of the National Institute of War Invalids, Veterans and War Victims (IV-INIG), provides that these benefits shall be granted to "nationals" of the IV-INIG, as well as to children of political prisoners who have obtained the status of political prisoner. If the orphans of political prisoners are therefore legitimately targeted by this provision in their favour, this does not seem to be the case for the orphans of soldiers killed in combat. Mr Minister, first of all, do you confirm to me this discrimination between these various categories? If so, how do you justify this obvious difference in treatment? Why, then, cannot orphans of soldiers who have fallen into the field of honour also be entitled to this moral recognition and to the same benefits? In any case, these "benefits" are, overall, quite minimal and the budgetary impact can only be limited, especially in view of the age of potential beneficiaries. This age also motivates the urgency that should be demonstrated in the processing of this case; indeed, the more time passes, the fewer the number of persons concerned and discriminated against. And we cannot accept to see this problem "regulated" only by allowing time to pass. Yet the question is not new. Indeed, your predecessor Mr. De Crem had already had to answer similar questions as early as 2009. Re-examined in July 2012, he indicated that an assessment of the feasibility of the amendment to the said Royal Order was to be communicated to him shortly. I hope it could have been done. What is the situation in this regard? In any event, what measures do you intend to take to put an end to this discrimination? Can you tell me what schedule you could follow in order to solve this problem? I am thinking, for example, of a radical change in this order of 23 December 2002, which would guarantee equal treatment between war orphans and orphans of political prisoners.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u200	Mrs Poncelet, first of all, know that this is a situation arising from historical facts. Orphans entitled to political prisoners are children of deported political prisoners, who had not reached the age of 18 at the time of the decision to award the status of a person entitled by the recognition commissions. These commissions met a few years after the end of the Second World War. This legal framework was justified at the time by the fact that the political prisoners deported to the Nazi concentration camps had suffered particular suffering. As a result, their minor children were considered to replace, in some way, their deceased parents. At the time, measures taken in the context of national recognition did not take into account orphans of other war victims. Nevertheless, some have been able to benefit from benefits such as increased family allowances and access to employment in the civil service. As regards national recognition, all the measures mentioned above are the result of the balance reached at the time. In the past, initiatives have been initiated to grant rights to orphans of soldiers killed in combat. These have never been successful. There is no official census of these orphans. It was therefore difficult to quantify the consequences of the proposed measures. Finally, such an initiative could undermine the balance achieved in terms of repair and national recognition and jeopardize the built building. However, I am prepared, through my delegate, to have this issue re-submitted to the High Council of War Invalids, Veterans and War Victims, which must decide on any regulatory initiative in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic182x.u201	Minister, thank you. I encourage you to continue this initiative without delay. The victims, although fewer and fewer, hope for compensation.
