ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u2	The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] [[:]] On 1 October Zottegem Hubert Van Wambeke, a former member of the Chamber of Representatives, died. He was 85. Hubert Van Wambeke was born in the South East Flanders Grotenberge, near Zottegem, on 11 October 1929. After secondary education, he joined the Regie van Telegraphie en Telephonie in 1949. At the end of 1966 he switched to the press service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where he stayed until the end of 1980. In addition to his career as an official, Hubert Van Wambeke was also politically active. Shortly after World War II, he became a member of the CVP-Jongeren, and began to participate in the Magazine of Young People. His commitment to the CVP led him to become Provincial Senator of Eastern Flanders in December 1980. A year later, he was elected a member of the House of Representatives for the district of Alost. During the decade he was a member of the House and finished in November 1991, Hubert Van Wambeke was known for his serious spirit and enthusiasm. He was especially active in the Committee on External Relations, where his interest in foreign policy since his youth was fully expressed. For three years, from 1988 to 1991, he was also a member of the College of Quaestors of the House. For nearly ten years, he combined his parliamentary duties with a local term: from 1986 to 1989, he served as a communal councillor of Zottegem, and from 1989 to 1995, he chaired the CPAS of his city. After the 1991 elections, Hubert Van Wambeke returned to the Senate. He remained there for one term, until 1995, when he decided not to hold a national political mandate and to concentrate exclusively on local politics. After the end of his active political career, he continued to work for well-being and the interests of the seniors: he was, among other things, chairman of the Local Employment Agency and chairman of the CD&V Seniors in Zottegem. Hubert Van Wambeke was a thoroughbred politician who always served his city, his region and his party. But he was also a man who was widely appreciated for his correctness and his righteousness. He had, with the fine words of Marnix Gijsen, loaded the heavy burden, to be an honest man in word and deed. In the name of the Chamber, I have expressed our sincere condolences to his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Hubert Van Wambeke has put his entire professional life at the service of society, a civil servant in the most literal sense of the word. He did so in many functions and on many levels. He began his post-war career as a civil servant at the RTT. In 1966, he exchanged that position for a position with the Foreign Office. There lay the real interest of Hubert Van Wambeke, an interest that also defined his political career for a great deal. Between 1980 and 1995, he was elected by the people in this hemisphere and in the Senate. There he left his mark on foreign policy, which was drawn up by the legislature, at a time of exceptional historical importance in geopolitical terms. However, that interest for abroad did not prevent him from taking up his social responsibility close to home. In his home town of Zottegem he was a very popular man as city council member and OCMW chairman. Even after resigning his mandates, he continued to work as a local senior chairman for the interests of the people and certainly for the seniors. The government pays great respect to Hubert Van Wambeke and expresses its condolences to his family and wishes them much strength.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u4	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, let us observe a moment's silence in memory of the late colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u5	The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] [[:]] On 18 October, he died in Ghent André Bourgeois, a former member of the Chamber of Representatives. He was 87 years old. André Bourgeois was born in Izegem on 7 March 1928. After his doctorate in law and law at the University of Ghent, he became a member of the Bar of Kortrijk in 1956. Until the age of 73, he would continue to pursue the profession of lawyer, while also developing a political career. From 1958 to 1962 André Bourgeois was national vice-president of the CVP-Jongeren. In 1965 he became a member of the provincial council of West Flanders. In 1965, he became mayor of Izegem as a newly elected city council member. With his innovative ideas and his youthful enthusiasm, André Bourgeois immediately started to modernise his hometown. For example, he initiated the creation of the Mandeldal industrial area, a project which required heavy infrastructure but which was of great importance for employment throughout the Roeselare district. Although André Bourgeois was mayor for only a term of office until January 1971, he remained a city council member in Izegem until December 1994, and was also first ships from January 1977 to December 1982. Meanwhile, André Bourgeois entered the national political scene. He served in the House of Representatives from November 1971 to April 1977 and from December 1978 to May 1995. He is a particularly active member of the Justice Committee and leads with great dedication the work of the first parliamentary committee of inquiry on the Brabant Killers. From November 1985 to January 1988 and from June 1988 to March 1992, André Bourgeois also served as Secretary of the House. André Bourgeois reached the climax of his political career between March 1992 and June 1995 in the first government of Jean-Luc Dehaene where he was Minister of Small and Medium Enterprises and Agriculture. It implements the new Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union and participates in the Uruguay Round of agricultural negotiations, which led in January 1995 to the establishment of the World Trade Organisation. In 1999 André Bourgeois ended his political career, and he then sat in the Senate. As a senator, he was, among other things, the first Vice-President of the Committee on Justice and a member of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Organised Crime in Belgium. After his farewell to politics, André Bourgeois studied history and art history at Ghent University, and became a protector of Izegem's cultural historical heritage. André Bourgeois was a jovial and enthusiastic man, a father figure too, who never hesitated to assist his numerous friends and acquaintances with advice and deed. In the name of the Chamber, I have expressed my sincere condolences to his family, whom I welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today the government commemorates one of its predecessors in the Council of Ministers. Parliament commemorates a representative of the people, who has been here in the hemisphere for almost two decades, making the voice of the people heard. Izegem remembers a civilian father, who put the city on the map. A large family remembers a loving and beloved father and grandfather. It shows how much impact André Bourgeois has left. Personally, I met him when he was Minister of SMEs and I was still working at UNIZO. I got to know him as someone who had an eye for the concerns of small and medium-sized enterprises, but who also had a clear, personal opinion and always had the public interest at stake. We also want to pay tribute today to the way in which he defended the primary sector during one of the most crucial periods in the history of European agricultural policy. The 1992 MacSharry reform and the WTO GATT agreements proved to be a turning point in the way we support our farmers and growers. In these negotiations André Bourgeois has always worked for the viability of Belgian agriculture. It is an example that was subsequently followed by all the next federal and regional ministers for agriculture. The government pays tribute to a great politician, whose legacy continues in our agricultural, horticultural and SME policies, in the city of Izegem and in the memories that many of us have of him. We express our condolences to the family of André Bourgeois and wish her much strength during this difficult period.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u7	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that this late colleague and ex-minister should also observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u8	The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] [[:]] On 11 October, Eeklo Wilfried Van Durme, a former member of the Chamber of Representatives, died. He was 84 years old. Wilfried Van Durme was born in Petegem, near Deinze, on 24 June 1931. After his education as a social assistant, Wilfried Van Durme was a student at the Provincial Technical Institute in Eeklo for many years. From the beginning he was involved in the Green Movement and in the political party Agalev, the forerunner of Green. He was also editor-in-chief of De Groenen, the party magazine of Agalev. From June 1983 to October 1985, Wilfried Van Durme was a member of the East Flemish provincial council. In October 1985 he became a member of the Chamber of Representatives of the Ghent-Eeklo arrondissement. He remained a member of our assembly until November 1991, and was mainly active in the Committee on Health and the Environment and in the Committee on Agriculture and the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises. Wilfried Van Durme then left the national policy to concentrate on the local level. He served three terms on the communal council of Eeklo: from 1996 to 2000, from 2001 to 2006 and from 2010 to 2012. While Eeklo has become a leading city in the field of renewable energy, it is well worth it: it has been a pioneer in the use of wind energy and the installation of solar panels on the roofs of the city's buildings. During his final term as municipal councillor, Wilfried Van Durme, then 80 years old, still has an amazing interest and dynamism, particularly in matters relating to spatial planning. In his hometown of Eeklo, Wilfried Van Durme was not only political but also highly culturally engaged. For many years he was President of the Cultural Council and the Cultural Centre De Herbakker. Wilfried Van Durme was known as a very friendly and honest man. Power in itself did not interest him; he saw it as an instrument to deal with the environment in a different way. In the name of the Chamber, I have expressed our sincere condolences to his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Wilfried Van Durme was very active at Agalev, of which he was one of the founders. During his political career he first sat for two years on the provincial council of East Flanders, after which he was elected to the Chamber. He was a member of the Chamber until 1991. He worked mainly on the themes of public health, the environment and agriculture. He was very concerned about waste disposal and drafted a bill for beverage packaging. He was also one of the first to pay attention to the problems of intensive livestock farming and its impact on the environment. After his federal commitment, Wilfried Van Durme continued to invest for the company at the local level, particularly in his commune in Eeklo, and for many years as a communal councillor, where he distinguished himself for his dedication and commitment to culture. With his convictions, he contributed throughout his life to making ecology a major political issue. Whoever knew him calls him a warm, simple man, not attached to outward signs of wealth or recognition. The ecologists are losing an important member of their community. I would like to express my condolences to his family and colleagues on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u10	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we also observe a few moments of silence for this colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u11	The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] [[:]] Colleagues, we learned with regret the death on Saturday, October 17, at the age of 66, of Anne-Marie Lizin, Honorary Speaker of the Senate, who was a member of our assembly from 1991 to 1995. After obtaining a bachelor's degree in economics at the University of Liège, Anne-Marie Lizin took her first steps in politics by joining in 1970 the cabinet of Henri Simonet, Minister of Economic Affairs. She accompanied him to his successive offices at the European Commission from 1973 to 1977, then to Foreign Affairs until 1979. In the first elections of the European Parliament by universal suffrage in June 1979, Anne-Marie Lizin obtained a seat as a Member of the European Parliament which she would retain until 1988. She was then appointed Secretary of State for Europe 92 in the Martens VIII and Martens IX governments, a position she would hold until March 1992. European convinced, this new function sits perfectly. It is working with great conviction to prepare Belgium for the intergovernmental conferences which will lead to the adoption of the Maastricht Treaty in 1992. On 24 November 1991, Anne-Marie Lizin entered the Chamber as a representative of the Hoei-Borgworm arrondissement. She took part with dedication and enthusiasm in parliamentary work on the major social problems. In May 1995, Anne-Marie Lizin moved to the Senate. She was chairman of the Senate's Internal Affairs Committee from 1999 to 2003, but also, and above all, the first woman to lead the High Assembly, from 20 July 2004 to 12 July 2007. Anne-Marie Lizin was a specialist in international relations and the Senate Presidency gave her the opportunity to hold meetings in the Senate with numerous, also foreign, prominent people. As Vice-President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, she was instructed in 2006 to draw up a report on Guantánamo. In this context, she was the first Member of Parliament in the world to visit the American base. Her commitment at international level brought Anne-Marie Lizin to all corners of the world, and she met many prominent political figures. In this context, she also dared to take risks because it was neither her nature nor her custom to recoil from a difficult task. As a result, it also occasionally clashed with established structures of authority and vested interests. Colleagues, Anne-Marie Lizin has always kept her local anchor. It was in 1970 that she began her political career as a communal councillor and then alderman in Ben-Ahin, a commune that merged with Huy in 1976. In 1983, Anne-Marie Lizin began a long career in the Maiorate of the city of Huy, a position she held for 26 years, until 2009. Feeding a true passion for Huy, she invests herself without counting on the social, cultural and economic development of this city she loves so much. Anne-Marie Lizin was a leading woman, well tempered in character, with an acute sense of communication. Untiring militant, present on all fronts, she has put her overflowing energy and unwavering determination at the service of her ideas. We will not forget his struggle for equality between men and women and the promotion and defence of human rights. Dear Colleagues, Anne-Marie Lizin has marked the Belgian political life of the last thirty years in his own way, beyond differences and an atypical and turbulent political journey. I greet his family in the gallery. I have conveyed to her husband and her loved ones the condolences of our assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 17 October this year it was a prominent figure in the politics that went away. Anne-Marie Lizin began his political action alongside Henri Simonet, then Minister of Economic Affairs, by joining his cabinet in the early seventies. In June 1979, Anne-Marie Lizin was elected Member of the European Parliament and thus moved from behind the scenes to the political scene. This is the beginning of a long journey and a very strong commitment. Whether it was in the European Parliament, the House, the Senate, but also in her commune in Huy, to which she had a motherly love, she defended her convictions often without compromise. Throughout her journey, she distinguished herself for her international commitments. For example, it demonstrated commitments by visiting Guantanamo as Vice-President of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). She also worked hard for the cause of women and the fight for equality between men and women. She had to profile herself in a world that was still largely dominated by men at the time, and she succeeded in doing so by becoming, among other things, the first woman to chair a Belgian parliamentary assembly when she became President of the Senate. She was passionate about politics and had made it her life. She also devoted her life, with great strength, to the City of Huy, where she was a must and whose face she changed deeply to make it a leading city in Wallonia. I myself had the opportunity to meet her regularly when I was a minister in the Walloon Region. She was a lady of character, determined, often to the pointer, but whose convictions were as sincere as they were profound. On behalf of the government, I wish to extend our deepest condolences to his family, friends and loved ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u13	Thank you, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to observe a minute of silence in tribute to Mrs Lizin.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u14	At the request of the Government, I propose that on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary, the draft law approving the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Iceland, of the other part, concerning Iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of the commitments of the European Union, its Member States and Iceland for the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, done in Brussels on 1 April 2015, No. 1250/1, to be registered. At the request of the Government, I propose to include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the draft law approving the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Iceland, on the other, concerning Iceland's participation in the joint implementation of the commitments of the European Union, its Member States and Iceland during the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, done at Brussels on 1 April 2015, No. 1250/1. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have decided to address this question to you, Mr Prime Minister, because, as such, you play a vital role in the social cohesion of the government. And, for the moment, it must be recognized that you have a lot of work to do at this level, given the more tormented re-entry that we have known. One of the many issues that surrounds your office seems to me to be very important, namely the one relating to the climate emergency, COP21, since, in a good month, negotiations will begin in Paris. This is certainly one of the most important challenges facing humanity today. For years and years, Belgium has not been able to reach an agreement on what is called "burden sharing", burden sharing. I was very pleased to welcome the work done by the four Environment Ministers at the federal level, but also at the level of the three Regions, in order finally to reach this agreement. Is this a good deal? We can always improve everything, but I learned that in order to reach a compromise, everyone has to put water in their wine. In any case, I would like to welcome this agreement. Unfortunately, there was this thunderstorm. Indeed, on Tuesday morning, a Deputy Prime Minister violently and publicly attacked the Minister of the Environment, informing her that she had not negotiated well. This fact is all the more serious since the Deputy Prime Minister could have done so kindly, within the framework of the Kern, by asking questions. But no, he had to do it through the media! I don't want to do too much because the stakes are really too big, but, Prime Minister, will you defend your Minister of the Environment because that is your role in particular? Do you have the absolute will to reach an agreement before Belgium participates in the Paris COP21?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u16	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Friday night and Saturday morning there was great euphoria when it appeared that we finally had a climate agreement. After eight years of negotiations, there was finally a climate agreement. Monday morning was followed by sobriety. The N-VA no longer likes the agreement and wants to renegotiate it. On Tuesday morning, Minister Marghem says in committee that she is still in favour of the agreement. Almost at the same time, we are also told on the radio that your own Deputy Prime Minister of the N-VA considers this agreement to be unbalanced. Mrs. Marghem declares her support for the agreement and she throws the ball in your camp. She says that the Prime Minister will discuss this on Friday in the nuclear cabinet and solve the problem there. Wednesday morning we get another message, which shows that there is a problem. In the meantime, Prime Minister, we are making a terrible impression internationally. Mr Delbeke, the director-general of the European Commission's climate plan, says that Belgium is undermining its credibility by bickering. He adds that we are the only country in 28 Member States that does not yet have a detailed plan. Prime Minister, the cherry on the cake followed on Thursday. The European Commission says that the calculation of the federal part of renewable energy is incorrect. Prime Minister, how will you solve this? One of your coalition partners says this agreement is unbalanced. More than that, the Deputy Prime Minister says Flanders has to pay too much. Prime Minister, will you renegotiate this agreement, as your coalition partner asks? How will you ensure that we do not make fun of ourselves in Paris within a month?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u17	(...) This is an article from The Financial Times in the United States. Ladies and gentlemen of the N-VA, for the record, we have been ridiculed in recent years. Prime Minister, I note that with the installation of this government, the art of compromise has really gone to waste. We've been without a climate agreement for six years. We've been in extra time for a long time. You have four more years to achieve the objectives. We already know what that means for a government that doesn't handle timing very well. There's no deal, there's no excuses. Six years of fighting federalism, 236 million euros blocked, money that could have been used for renewable energy projects. A minister of the Environment who in her communication herself indicates that she is going to insert imported green electricity into the agreement. Europe repeats that this cannot be done. A Deputy Prime Minister of the N-VA, who, like his Flemish colleague, says that he does not agree with that federal agreement and who distances himself from your government, you who had one sentence left here a few weeks ago for the Paris Summit. The people on the other side of the screen are bewildered to look at this embarrassing spectacle. Tomorrow there will be activists who will really be exposed with the buttocks. After all, that is where our country is now international, with its buttocks bare. You can't straighten that out anymore. Meanwhile, I see 112 captains of industry asking for a strong agreement, ten thousand people in the climate case, mayors and ships working; everyone moves except your government, which keeps running in circles. Time's up. Prime Minister, are you going to Paris? What are you gonna tell them? How are you going to ensure that the disgrace that you have brought about does not disappear in our name, and we have tabled a proposal after a proposal, and we are therefore disassociating ourselves from this government and that you can do a bit of cleaning up our country, now the worst pupil in Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u18	Mr President, Prime Minister, last Saturday, a historic agreement was reached on burden sharing. The four climate ministers of our country, under the chairmanship of Céline Fremault, Minister of Brussels, intervened in this negotiation. This agreement is historic because, for eight years, we have been negotiating on the matter. It's an important element. In an agreement, there is pros and cons, but at some point, we must seize the opportunity. The four ministers therefore assumed their responsibilities. In addition, the Brussels Government and the Walloon Government have already approved this agreement. It is also an important element. The federal government, Prime Minister, must also assume its responsibilities under this negotiated agreement, endorsed by your climate minister. This agreement is credible and balanced. In addition, funding is expected in the coming days. On 15 November 2015, an ECOFIN Council was convened and Belgium did not, despite having been called to order twice by the European Commission, submit its contribution to European funding. This forces us because we will be seen as an individual lessor, which is not ideal in these types of negotiations. Prime Minister, we are just a step away from COP21 in Paris and we must present a strong and credible image on this occasion. It is about our general credibility vis-à-vis Europe. Prime Minister, could you confirm to this House that the agreement negotiated on Saturday is a credible and balanced agreement and that it already has the support of a number of partners. Can you solemnly undertake before this House to approve this agreement and, if possible, tomorrow in the Council of Ministers. We would like to be informed that this agreement is being ratified.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u19	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I understand in a way that my opposition colleagues want to dramatize the situation. I would like to say that these questions have already been asked in the Committee on Public Health, during which we had an important and extremely interesting debate. I understand that in the current state of affairs, the division of effort between the federal government and the federated entities is the subject of a pre-agreement. In the end, I would like to remind you that it is also up to the federated entities to validate this agreement. We all have our role, at all levels of power. At the present time, some people want to launch a controversy on the subject in the public square. Prime Minister, could you tell us what the position of the federal government is? In a constructive way, how do you think we can solve this problem so that we can reach an agreement between the federal government and the federated entities?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the various speakers. We will all agree, I think, on one point: this is an important issue. This Paris Conference on Climate Change must be a success. We must all be mobilized to bring our stone to the building and try to make it a success. It won't be easy. In all the international meetings I have attended, including the last few weeks, this point has been put at the top of the agenda. The French government is very mobilized to make it a success. We must also be up to the challenge. You have all had the intellectual honesty to recognize this: it is a matter that has been dealt with for a long time in Belgium, unfortunately without agreement. For more than six years, successive ministers of the environment in federal and federal entities have mobilized and made the best efforts to try to bring together views on reaching a distribution agreement. I am particularly pleased that it has been possible in recent days to make progress, to offer an opportunity for or a prospect of an agreement for the Paris Conference. I would like to make it clear that the federal government, as I believe the regional governments, is committed to doing everything possible and to making the necessary efforts to reach an agreement. But what are the facts? But what are the facts? In a very sober way and in order to inform all colleagues perfectly, I would like to make it clear that, during the night of Friday to Saturday, a proposal was actually made between the various Environment Ministers. There is a difference between a proposal for an agreement and an agreement, Mr Nollet. This required technical and political verification in the various governments. The proof? Some Governments have already expressed their views on the proposal. From a technical point of view, what is the difficulty we face at the federal level? This proposal includes an assumption that the share of the federal effort in renewable energy will increase from 2 to 2.75 per cent. This reasoning was developed taking into account the idea that certain mechanisms such as turbines and interconnections could be accounted for and recognised as such at European level. At the beginning of this week, Monday, we received a reply from the European Commission stating that these elements or factors cannot be taken into account. That's a reality. That's a fact. That's right. Mr. Nollet, stay calm! When you talk seriously about a case, it seems to bother you. I'm just explaining the facts. We must take this into account. It's a reality. The European Commission has clarified a point on which there was obviously doubt, a question. This has been verified and on the basis of this, I have asked the minister to continue the negotiations. I can tell you that the government's will is to do everything in the next few days to ensure that an agreement is possible. It can be said that this is scandalous, that there was a draft agreement and that it was absolutely necessary to validate it. But I want an agreement that is achievable and realistic! If we were to reach an agreement that was not feasible and not realistic, very quickly we would be caught up and we would have to pay any fines decided by the European Commission, which would make no sense. The Länder and the federal government have every interest in a realistic agreement that can be implemented. That's what we're trying to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u21	Prime Minister, obviously you are uncomfortable. And it can be seen. Truth has its rights. When Mr Jambon spoke at the RTBF microphone on Tuesday morning, he did not say: "There are technical problems with the Commission." What's he saying? I quote: "The costs are too high for Flanders. So we need to review how we can more balance the deal." The N-VA simply made the community! You regularly explain in the media that this party has changed. This is a case where the reality is clear: Mr Jambon refuses an agreement because he feels that the burden is too high for Flanders. Prime Minister, this is inexcusable! Then what did Mrs Marghem say in committee? She indicated that she would continue to defend the agreement. You claim to have received information on the weekend. So Mrs Marghem wouldn't have gotten them? It's still weird! I can't believe you're taxing her for incompetence. In this respect, I believe she is competent. Therefore, Prime Minister, I ask you to reunite yourself. This is an extremely important issue. We want to reach a global consensus, but Belgium would come without internal agreement? If you do not succeed, Prime Minister, it will be your failure and a true climate BHV – and you will be responsible for it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u22	I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in principle you are entitled to one minute for the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u23	Prime Minister, your answer is quite appalling. First, you say that there was no agreement, but a proposal. We have made it quite clear to Mr Marghem that she is not listening at the moment, although it is about her subject matter that she has heard a number of times say that there was an agreement. That's what the papers say. Secondly, you say that you received a number of technical details from Europe over the weekend. Prime Minister, negotiations have been under way for six years. If we have a new proposal with which we go to the partners of the Länder, it is inconceivable that we do not check first whether this is possible in this way. What you are now saying only points to your Minister's incompetence. Again, you say that information was known on the weekends. On Tuesday we had a committee meeting and Minister Marghem did not say anything about it. Thirdly, I have asked you on the man's side if you will renegotiate the agreement. From your answer, I understand. You want to negate the very difficult agreement once again. Prime Minister, I'm just determining. Your government has an agreement. During the debate, Mr Vuye said that the government is not a bickering cabinet, but an action cabinet. I merely note, Prime Minister, that the N-VA questions your government's decisions over and over again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u24	Mr President, Prime Minister, with your rather disgusting answer, you have shown that not only Mrs Marghem is incompetent in terms of climate, but your entire government, including the N-VA, who also likes to have an incompetent Bourgeois I government in terms of climate. The worst student in Europe, it's your credit. Let that get through to you. The Financial Times writes in the Katern Economy that tackling climate change is not only a path away from disaster, but also a huge opportunity, a great opportunity that you are squandering at a rotten pace. A positive story, yesterday I proposed a mobility budget. Your government doesn't even have the timing. You can't, you don't want it, and Michel I, like Bourgeois I, will go down in history like the government of the climate-negationists. And so you will go to Paris.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u25	Prime Minister, let me be astonished. What's going on here is extraordinary. As the champion of tweets, I invite you to reread the tweets of your climate minister announcing certain decisions, which were firm and definitive. What a kiss under the picture to validate this agreement! The questions I asked you were simple. They required simple answers. I didn't get any. It was enough for a statement on Tuesday morning from a minister of your government to set the Climate Commission on fire and now hesitate about this historic agreement, in which all parties found a plus. Indeed, being part of the concert of the Nations is an important issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u26	Prime Minister, I understand the willingness of some to make global warming a community issue. [[Protests]] I'm not sure it will bear fruit. I also hear the will of some in talking about an agreement, when all understood that it was a draft agreement. I hear a certain aggressiveness, because everyone is trying to position themselves against the Belgian attitude that we must adopt in common. I want to say this. We have undertaken relatively substantial parliamentary work through the tabling of a resolution, Mr Ducarme, Mr Chastel and myself. We have opened the dialogue very constructively to all parties in this House. Some have already manifested themselves. In a very short time, we will work together towards a common agreement. It is above all in this respect that we can defend Belgium's position in Paris.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u27	Mr President, Prime Minister, yesterday we heard Mrs Galant's explanations in the Committee on Infrastructure and we have three certainties. The first is that she hid the truth. The second is that his firm appointed the law firm Clifford. The third is that public procurement procedures have not been followed. In other words, this means that this designation was made in a totally illegal manner and that it was tens of thousands of euros, almost 400 000 and perhaps much more, of public money that were illegally spent. Yesterday, Mrs Galant also told us that she was not responsible but that it was her administration. We're used to her! It's kind of like a child defending himself in front of his parents who surprise him with his fingers in the jar of jam! Ms. Galant also said that she was going to seize the Finance Inspectorate, which she did not do to designate the firm Clifford. Even less so, it has referred the matter to the Minister of Budget and the Council of Ministers! In fact, it has not made any competition! Now, she's going to seize the Finance Inspectorate to do a big study on all the files in her department! Prime Minister, I would ask you to seize the Finance Inspectorate yourself, and to commit yourself to it here, so that it can investigate the appointment of the cabinet of Clifford and deliver its findings to Parliament within seven days. Prime Minister, this is a serious matter! Is that really the image you want to give of your government? Is it really ethics at work in your majority? Procedures trampled on, money illegally spent, irresponsible ministers! I remind Mrs Galant that she is responsible for the members of her cabinet and administration! Prime Minister, when there is a mistake in an organization, it is the boss who is responsible. In the VW scandal, it's not an engineer who resigned, it's the boss! Prime Minister, do you still trust your Minister, Mrs. Galant?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u28	Prime Minister, we should discuss here the overall plan that Minister Galant was to present to us to deal with noise pollution around Brussels, which affects a million people. Instead, we need to discuss a sinister case where a minister has imposed a law firm for a price of 400,000 euros, or 385 euros per hour, to deal with this case, which is still not. It imposed this law firm by violating the law on public procurement: no opinion of the Inspectorate of Finance, no opinion of the Minister of Budget, no consultation with the rest of the government. This firm manages this extremely important issue. Prime Minister, we were used to Mrs Galant's lack of knowledge of numbers and amateurism. Here, she lied to the Infrastructure Commission. It's a mistake! Mrs Galant is not up to the task. She still hasn't handed over her plan, but here, she broke the law. Do you therefore have confidence in your Minister of Transport?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u29	Prime Minister, the facts are serious! Your Minister Galant has appealed to a law firm of his choice, a firm that is said to be close to the MR and that acts in non-specialized matters with respect to the file. It cost a lot of money. Mrs Galant has committed several illegal acts and irregularities and, in order to defend herself, she is clearly lying. In fact, I'm not so surprised because, every time I had the opportunity to face your Minister Galant, she raised the lie in the form of governance. She asserts things contrary to the obvious. In the SNCB file alone, billions are being subtracted and she says that we are going to improve rail transport, punctuality, safety, we will not touch the job,... dishonest lies! Here, we've come a long way. We are no longer in political lies but in factual lies. Ms. Galant also exonerates this arrogance by intimidating others to do what she says and not what she does. In reading Mrs Galant's strategic visions about rail, we hear about "a drastic reduction in the use of consultants, ensuring a code of business ethics for administrators and staff". And then this interview at La Libre where she wants us to stop wasting public money at SNCB. So this is about public money, Prime Minister. However, we are talking about 385 euros per hour excluding VAT for lawyers. At some point, I thought we were talking about Armand De Decker. No, I don't! With him, it's 1,000 euros per hour VATC. Prime Minister, in this case, this is not a political counter-truth, an interpretation of the facts, but a deliberate factual lie. An unacceptable threshold has therefore been crossed. In doing so, do you think that Minister Galant can stay in your government? In any case, as far as we are concerned, we do not think so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u30	Mr President, Prime Minister, as they say in Belgium, "too much is to be done". The situation is serious, even desperate. It is desperate on the substance and on the form: on the form, given the procedures that were used by Minister Galant to spend insane sums by using a lawyer for a study – and here I come to the bottom – that already existed. I have at my disposal all the documents concerning the Vliegwet. Why not have used a document that already existed rather than spending crazy sums that could have been used to conduct an environmental study related to the aerial overflight of Brussels and its periphery or a study impacting the health problems of the population? In my opinion, Minister Galant has gone too far. Moreover, it is shocking to note that she blames her administration for all the fault, which is also a serious mistake. When you run an administration, you have to trust it, work with it, not against it. Prime Minister, what position do you intend to take with regard to the facts?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u31	Mr President, I sometimes feel that our parliament is beginning to look a bit like a court. I will not even mention the attacks on people that I find detestable enough when we must have a calm political debate, in this case on a polemic. As you know, Mrs Lalieux, this is not the first time we have had a debate on how to consult service providers. This is not the first time a controversy has started in this context. You know that. It is regrettable, but what is also regrettable here is the framework on which this controversy is articulated with leaks, public unpackages, e-mails reproducing the correspondence between the minister and the administration which are found in the pockets of parliamentarians. That still raises the question. Everyone has to admit that the way this happened is strange and wonder how this controversy got on. Everyone can also recognize that many trials have been conducted by the various actors. I regret to have missed Mrs Matz's speech. You must nevertheless recognise that the debate that took place yesterday in the committee demonstrated the desire for transparency. Mrs Galant has fully lent herself to parliamentary scrutiny and has brought all the elements you were asking for. At least recognize this minimum. She answered your questions for hours. But the will of this majority is to get out of the polemic from the top, even if some would like to bury us there and dig, to further dig the polemic. Indeed, the real question is to get out of the polemic from the top. Prime Minister, this majority, this team of which you are a member, intends to continue to play a full role in the fight for transparency in public affairs. Yes! We believe that it is necessary to produce a number of recommendations and to go further than those who have worked with us in this area, and even to further modernise the rules in terms of public procurement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u32	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ducrame, you missed me yesterday, but you are not going to miss me today! Prime Minister, I would like to ask you one question: how can you agree to allow the whole action of the government, of which you are the boss, to be tainted by these two facts? And this is not a polemic, Mr. Ducrame. Parliament, I remind you, is not a court but is responsible for overseeing the executive. I think that yesterday, in committee, all the Members present did their job, which is why they are paid: to control the executive. Prime Minister, how can you let the whole of your government tainted by these two elements? First, the flagrant illegality, recognized by the minister herself, but immediately transposed on the administration. The minister burned three red lights. For a Minister of Mobility, it's not annoyance! No Council of Ministers, no competition, no opinion of the Finance Inspectorate. Second, we can say "non-truth," but I think we can talk about "truth." Yesterday, she knowingly lied to parliamentarians, so to the public. The lie is splattering the whole of your government. A lie about his responsibility: "It is not me, it is the other", a lie about the amounts and a lie about the fact that it would not be his firm that would have designated the chosen law firm in this extremely delicate case. They're lies! There are facts attesting to this. Prime Minister, how do you accept that this situation persists and allow the whole government, of which you are the boss, to be tainted by illegality and lies?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to describe the facts as I was able to be informed of them. About a year ago, a few weeks after the launch of this coalition, after the vote of confidence in the House, a first consultation was requested from a law firm. As an anecdote, the minister's office was in the process of moving. For this first consultation on the question of possible State aid granted in support of an airline, a first opinion is delivered by e-mail by the administration, which seems to indicate that it was possible to use a procedure without having to consult other offers than the one made. A few months later, it was decided to extend this first consultation to include procedural legislation. Meanwhile, many emails have been exchanged between the firm and the administration. In any case, I note that these documents will be forwarded to parliamentarians. I hope that this transmission will be complete, so that there will be transparency in these exchanges. Moreover, I understand that the interpretations differ on them. However, after questioning Minister Galant, I am convinced that she acted in good faith on the basis of different e-mails from the administration. Do I think she was reckless? Yes, she was. In view of the status of the case, it was indeed preferable to consult several law firms. I must now mention a few elements. With regard to the law on public procurement, I have carried out some audits in the last few hours. It has been amended several times. As has been said, there has been some controversy about some service providers, such as lawyers' offices or business reviewers. Governments have sometimes been hesitant in this regard. For example, the Public Procurement Act 2006 came into force in 2013. Shortly before it was implemented, discussions were already under way on a new European directive that would further amend the rules in this area. Another text has since entered into force. I look to the future by drawing the consequences of this situation. First of all, transparency towards Parliament goes without saying. Then, several months ago, the government worked on the transposition of the new public procurement directive. It is now subject to the opinion of the Council of State. As recently as yesterday, the concertation committee had included this transposition on its agenda. To give you an indication of this future law, one of the discussions is on how to distinguish, in the legislative order, legal opinions and opinions in the pre-contested or contentious phase, which are not treated in the same way by the directive. This shows that there are legal issues in this area. I am extremely clear: I am committed to asking the Chancellery to draw up instructions from future legislation on public procurement to allow for clarity. In other words, it will be a question of the amount to be applied to what type of rule. I also undertake to communicate to Parliament all recommendations and instructions on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u34	Mr President, I thank the Prime Minister. Drowning the fish is drowning the fish! I am not talking about Mr.Ducarme because I was asking the Prime Minister for answers. Prime Minister, I have asked you to refer the case to the Finance Inspectorate to initiate an investigation into the Clifford case and to deliver its findings within seven days to Parliament. Are you committed to it? Yes or no? I hope that's a yes, since you want all the transparency. You say today that you are going to remind a minister of the basic rules of public procurement and remind her that she has committed recklessness when we know very well the thresholds that must not be exceeded and that the rule is competition. You're only talking about competing here and we don't know that we have to compete with law firms! This is not good management! We don't know there's a finance inspector who has to give his approval! We don't know, but then we give him the order to pay! We do not know that this must go to the Council of Ministers! How will the Council of Ministers react when 400 000 euros of expenditure are not passed on to it? Prime Minister, this is not recklessness, it is illegality! When a citizen is illegal, you go after him, and you don't talk about transparency! Prime Minister, your call to order is very light! It's often very light with you! You plead good governance, you plead ethics, you plead respect for the rules, but your ministers don't respect them and they don't respect you! This procedure is illegal. This is the taxpayer's money that has been illegally spent! I hope that one day you will be held accountable!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u35	Mr President, Prime Minister, Mr.Ducarme, we are not in a court of law, but in a place where the laws that must be respected by all citizens of this country, including the ministers, are being developed. Mr Prime Minister, you have referred to a dispute between Ryanair and the Belgian State by informing us that it is necessary to have recourse to a law firm, which I understand. The cost of this action is EUR 30 000. But from the moment the minister decided to extend the contract, the procurement procedure had to be used. I would like to remind you that this is about 400,000 euros. Your minister has not been reckless, she is guilty! What she did is illegal! Today, you cover an outlaw while 16-year-olds face communal administrative sanctions when they commit illegal acts. Today, your minister is not punished, which is indecent!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u36	Mr President, Prime Minister, in order to defend the Minister of Lies, you have to betray the reality a little bit, which you have done. Indeed, you have spoken of imprudence. You said the rules aren't clear. Yet, the latter are clear. In addition, the administration had notified the minister. She was therefore well aware of the facts. You said that we need to see the future, that the rules will change. But these rules already exist. We just have to respect them. You have not said anything, Prime Minister, about the minister's lie, which is one of the most serious facts before you. The minister lied deliberately. Prime Minister, politicians must be exemplary from any point of view. However, this is not the case with Minister Galant. By covering it, you undermine the credibility of your government, which is already not huge. I therefore invite you to reconsider your position.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u37	Prime Minister, you are telling us that Mrs Galant acted in good faith, but she was reckless. That last word is the word of too much. She knew very well what she was doing. Spend so much money when you know, like everyone else, that the problem of air flights over Brussels is a very big one! This file has been in existence for a long time. Use what already exists and don't waste money as you constantly advocate austerity in your government and parliament! Today, full of little children are attending the plenary session of our Parliament. They may not understand much, but it must be said that the adult world is not always a good example in this assembly!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not go back to Mrs Lalieux's cap on a number of facts and polemics. I will not repeat to Mr. Hellings that he behaves more like a judge than a member of Parliament when he points at a minister and indicates that she is outlawed. That's not right! For the rest, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for taking steps to set out all the recommendations necessary to ensure that all the rules are respected. In conclusion, I would like to refer to the words used by the Prime Minister. Good faith? Yes. Unwise? Yes. And to recognize imprudence in the head of one of his ministers is to acknowledge, indeed, a mistake. It is also the mark of those who recognize their mistakes in order to better advance straight.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u39	Prime Minister, you told us in your response that the minister acted in good faith and transparency with respect to the commission by handing over all the documents that could fuel this matter. I simply point out to you, and I say here, that the minister has not delivered all the documents and all the exchanges of emails. She stopped. A particularly important document has been hidden. I don't see how she could not have put it back. It's a document dated November 7. We are 48 hours after the discussions between the administrations: "Following our discussions, I confirm to you that we, the firm of Mobility, wish to work with the law firm Clifford Chance for..." and we detail. It is a document which the committee was not aware of yesterday. It is an essential document, since it is the core of the problem. Who did what? The minister said it was her administration. This document proves that it is not the administration. I ask you, Prime Minister, solemnly to meet the last chance by convening a meeting of the Infrastructure Commission to confront not only the FPS boss but also the minister. There's gotta be someone who's lying. In case you cannot do this, since you appear to endorse Ms. Galant's actions, fraud, lies, you will also have to assume the responsibilities for yourself, for the minister and for your government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u40	Mr Minister, in the past week we have been beaten with one sentence after another on the right to strike. For the sake of clarity, we also condemn all illegal activities that take place in the margins of a demonstration or a strike, such as refusing access to work or causing harm. [[Rumur on the benches]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u41	I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to listen to Mr Vercamer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u42	The failure to tolerate illegal activities in the margins of a strike cannot be a reason to suddenly want to regulate everything itself. Moreover, we have made clear agreements on this in the coalition agreement. We give priority to social dialogue and we do not prejudice the right to strike. That is also what the men's agreement of 2002 states, which you yourself have been negotiating with. The social partners made agreements at that time and commitments were made. For example, employers would avoid legal procedures in the event of strikes and trade unions would avoid physical and physical violence in the event of strikes. Minister, what is stated in the coalition agreement is entirely in line with the gentlemen's agreement and with your approach this week, to bring the social partners around the table to evaluate the commitments and commitments made. This evaluation comes at the right time, because society no longer tolerates careless actions. The reflection on a new instrument of action is thus pressing. However, it is primarily up to the social partners to agree on this in order to achieve social peace. Achieving social peace is our mission. Social peace is not imposed; the only way to achieve it is through consultation and dialogue. That is your approach and we support it. Minister, perhaps you have more information on the concrete timing and thinking paths that were agreed. We like to hear it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, two pertinent questions were asked here last week. The first was about the strike action in Liège, to which it was replied that the right to strike is an important right, but also that the right to work is important. It was also pointed out that certain actions, such as blocking autostrades, could not be done and that was supported by the whole hemisphere. The second question concerned the agreement of the social partners, in particular the delicate problem of supplementary pensions or the second pillar. The Prime Minister replied that the agreement would be implemented in its entirety. We then called on the social partners, convinced that the social partners and the Group of Ten could also make progress in very difficult circumstances. This is certainly the case here too, when it comes to the right to strike, the right to work and the evaluation and modernisation of the gentlemen's agreement. In my capacity as Minister for Employment, I asked the social partners to take this call to heart and to do that evaluation and modernisation themselves. In the first instance, the VBO has agreed to do so. It has stated that the social partners are in a position to look at this problem. I am very pleased that all the trade unions also promised to do so yesterday. They promised to carry out the evaluation of the men's agreement of 2002 and to see how the Group of Ten could make progress in this respect. Last week, everyone agreed to the answer given to the question of the right to strike and the right to work. Everyone in the hemisphere then expressed their support for the federal government to implement the agreement in its entirety. I hope that everyone now agrees to allow the Group of Ten to discuss the gentlemen's agreement and to modernise the measures and to conclude agreements in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In any case, you have our support for your call to give all the opportunities to the social partners. For the umpteenth time, you have managed, in difficult circumstances, to get the social partners back to the table. Experience from the past year has shown us that they are achieving results effectively. I would ask my fellow Members to stop making provocative proposals that do nothing to build confidence and social peace. It is not by setting up groups against each other that confidence is built up and that solutions are put in place. No one is served by a battle over who gets the last word, the politics or the social partners. It is important to reach agreements that are supported by strong organisations that are legally represented.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the next two minutes will be about saving time. Minister, you launched an interesting proposal yesterday. You have also taken note of the reactions in the media. We told you yesterday that we support you in setting up a system for saving time or saving career. When it comes to flexibility in the labour market, you know that you have a supporter with us in finding ways to keep workable. This also means that people are given the freedom to organize their day and to spread their working time better over the career and during the year. Minister, I think we can support you, but I am actually a little surprised by a number of reactions. There are positive and surprised reactions from employers' organisations. I suspect we can take away their fear. I am particularly surprised by a political reaction that came from the sidelines. I am surprised to hear that choosing more freedom in organising work makes people sick. More freedom would make people sick. I have heard this morning that Mr Calvo has launched his book and that he says that he is bringing together the best of liberalism and socialism. Mr Calvo is not here by chance, but the best thing about liberalism is freedom and progressive thinking. If you think that more freedom makes people sick, you are wrong, Mr Calvo, and you will never be able to take the best of liberalism. We support you, Minister. What's your timing? Will you discuss this with the social partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u46	Mr President, Mr Lachaert, thank you for your public support. That helps to make progress. We have made a number of important decisions here, such as the extension of the retirement age, but one of the top priorities the government wants to work on, along with the majority and hopefully with the opposition, which is apparently going to take a while to put into practice workable work and manoeuvrable work. It requires a great deal of innovation and courage to provide the necessary tools in practice, not only for workers, but also for employers, not only for large companies, but also for SMEs, so that we can keep people longer at work, reduce stress and avoid burn-outs. This is one of the proposals. Of course, it is not the measure that will solve everything, but it is going in the right direction. Giving workers the opportunity to make career savings, to take matters into their own hands in order to take a certain number of leave days and fill them out as they wish is a first step, a first proposal. There will be many others, which we will be able to discuss. I am pleased that this proposal has given rise to many reactions and that people are sensitive to them. I hope that the necessary initiatives and debates will be taken in this House. The aim is to discuss workable work in the second round table on 17 November, together with other proposals. I understand that I already have a great supporter, Mr Lachaert, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u47	Mr President, Minister, you are indeed a supporter of ours. I just want to give you some more concerns. Saving time is indeed a step in the whole debate on workable work that can be positive. We will have to make tailor-made work possible at company level. A small SME with one or two employees is something other than a multinational employing hundreds of employees. It is easy for him to organise this. If we allow companies to complete this customization at enterprise level, we will be able to eliminate the concerns of organisations such as UNIZO and the NSZ. I look forward to the further proposals you will be drawing up with the social partners. You can count on our constructive support.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u48	Mr Minister, from next Friday the Foire musulmane de Bruxelles will again take place in the buildings of Tour & Taxis in Brussels. Last year you were forced to ban a guest speaker, a fundamentalist hate preacher, Tareq Al-Suwadian, including at the request of Flemish Interest. Today, however, we have to note that this Muslim fair once again offers a stage to Muslim extremists who are known to call for violence against non-Muslims. Mr President, I know that the Rules of Procedure provide that cheating notes may only be used for quotes and figures. But remembering exotic names is not my strong suit. The first speaker announced there is Omar Abdelkafi, an Egyptian fundamentalist who sees the attacks of September 11th and the attacks at Charlie Hebdo as a comedy show. That's what he calls it openly. According to that man, all this was staged to put the Muslims in a bad light. Another guest speaker expected at that Muslim fair is Mr Abdullah El Mosleh, a Saudi sheikh who literally calls for suicide attacks. He calls for suicide attacks, but only in non-Islamic countries. After all, according to him, every drop of Islam blood is worth much more than the life of all non-Muslims, all the unbelievers together. Minister, it is absolutely unacceptable for such hate preachers to be given a free stage here in our capital city. My questions to you are therefore very specific. In view of the precedents, how can they still be announced openly? Isn't there a check on that? Hasn't the half-time employee who's supposed to spot all that advertising online noticed that? In particular, are you going to refuse these two Muslim extremists access to the country to speak there?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u49	Mrs Pas, the people you mention and a number of others are being followed by our security services not only those who carry out patrols on the Internet, but also those who actually follow files. If there is any reason to keep those people from Belgium, so do we. I proved that last year with the Kuwaiti to which you referred. If there is reason to keep someone from Belgium, we will withdraw his visa. Those people are being followed by the security services. If I get instructions from the security services to keep them out of Belgium, so will I. However, you must not be mistaken about the system. We live in a democracy. In a democracy there is freedom of speech. It is, of course, forbidden to deliver hate-preaching messages and to call on people to commit acts of terrorism. We have also amended the law in that sense, but there is freedom of expression and freedom of thought in democracy. That is also a sacred principle for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u50	Of course, Minister, it is only your duty, within the framework of our country's security, to prohibit them from entering our territory. However, you mention a fundamental point, freedom of expression. That freedom of speech is sacred to me, too. As a Flemish Interester and former Flemish Blokker, I am well aware of what it is to be prosecuted for expressing an opinion. You say that the legislation has been amended. We are proposing an amendment to the legislation, something that can already be done in France, for example, to criminalise the glorification of terror, of a very different order from freedom of expression. Flemish Interest has a bill ready to criminalise the glorification, justification and approval of terrorist offences. We shall present it today, Mr President. You also committed yourself last year, Minister, to keeping a very close eye on this Muslim grant, which is being spread and said there, and I hope you will do so this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u51	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, 715 road deaths have already occurred in 2015. These are the figures we received last week following the launch of Minister Galant's platform, which aims to involve citizens in reducing the number of road deaths. In my opinion, this is a very noble exercise by the Minister, because it really takes on the farmer. It will specifically involve citizens in the various policies and listen to their proposals. In addition to the introduction and evaluation of policies, enforcement is also an essential element of the mobility and security policy chain. Maintenance can be done by schools, which, for example, remind children that a reflector on their bikes is broken or that the light is not working. However, enforcement today is primarily a task for the police, which is to ensure that the traffic rules are applied. The police are often the bad third or compared with the state, which once again sits in the pockets of the citizens. This perception often arises from those who receive a fine on the bus. Road safety only exists if it is really supported by all citizens. I therefore believe that involving citizens in enforcement is an essential element. This will involve citizens not only in the formulation of policies, but also in the enforcement of traffic rules by all citizens. In Uccle there is a very concrete example of this, because there speed checks were launched on order. Today, I think, this already exists in a lot of municipalities. As mayor, you probably also have the experience of being called by citizens who report that they are driving fast in the street. I think many mayor solves that by calling the police to make sure there's a flash at that location. In Uccle they are going to organize this actively, the active organisation of participation in enforcement. Minister, what do you think of this proposal from Uccle? Do you agree that participation in enforcement can increase support? What can you do to increase participation within the different police zones?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u52	Mrs Lijnen, first of all, I would like to say that the matter you are raising falls within the competence of the local police areas. You cite the example of Uccle. That has now come to the media, but it is not unique. There are still a lot of local police areas that use the system. They pick up signals from citizens in one way or another, then measure them with a measuring device before making speed checks, and then, if necessary, identify a problem and install mobile or fixed cameras. That system has been established in a lot of police zones. Civil participation or listening to the citizens is more common sense than we think. I support these initiatives. We regularly have forums where federal and local police exchange good practices. This is an example of good practice that can be passed on to the police zones.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is important to look at that from the common sense and to exchange best practices with the other zones. I have some specific proposals that you might take with you as best practice, Minister. For example, a feedback can be provided after speed checks. Once the question has been asked, you can also tell the street specifically that measurements or checks have been carried out, and that turns out that so much per cent was driving too fast in the street, but also that it is very often residents of the street itself who have been driving too fast there. Another example is explanation of a fine. One can add, for example, to a fine received at home, a phrase with the message: "At the speed at which you drove, if you lose control over the steering wheel, you have an eighty percent chance that you will not survive the accident." This awareness is essential in enforcement: information and follow-up are important points of enforcement policy. I hope that, together with Mrs Galant and the entire government, we will be able to reduce the number of road accidents and fatal road accidents dramatically.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u54	Mr President, Madam Minister, here I am again on the subject of breast reconstructions. It's still a hot topic. It's in the paper again. It hasn't been burning out of the news all week. I won't re-create the whole situation. I think it is quite clear, but the facts are there: more and more women are choosing a reconstruction with their own tissue. The refund is there, but it's not complete. I asked you a question about this in committee this week. Then you said you didn't have any responsibility. You referred the problem to the Technical Medical Board of the RIZIV, for consultation with the surgeons. Yesterday you didn't want to respond on the radio. You said the meeting's in progress. If I understand correctly, there haven't been any conversations since 2013. This morning, I read in the newspaper that you are in favour of a better refund. Maybe it's me, but I don't see the consequence of these events. Madam Minister, I would like to point out that in this case you absolutely cannot avoid your responsibility. The social debate is here today. There's a basis for support. That is why I have the following questions, with the aim of closing the debate at last and forever and giving answers to all the women and their families who are waiting for them. When will there be a consultation between the RIZIV and the surgeons or between your cabinet and the surgeons? What is the deadline for concluding an agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u55	Mr President, Mrs Capoen, I shall return to what I said on Tuesday. Each woman is entitled to a breast reconstruction with her own tissue, after establishing breast cancer or after establishing an increased risk of breast cancer. We must protect that vulnerable group from asking for improper supplements. We recognise, of course, that surgeons are doing a technically complex procedure and should also receive the appropriate remuneration. We must also pay attention to the non-medical framework. This is why I told you on Tuesday that we are also considering allocating this to reference centres. As far as compensation is concerned, the RIZIV will be consulted on this matter. You know that the RIZIV has its own consultative body, the Medicomut. This was recorded in the Medicomut agreement of 2013-2014 and in that of 2015. There was a proposal from the sickness funds to increase fees by 50%. This proposal was voted off by plastic surgeons. They didn't think that was enough. That is why the Minister at the time, Mrs Onkelinx, ordered a study from the Knowledge Centre on the exact price of such surgery with her own breast tissue. The advice of the Knowledge Centre dates from the end of September. A meeting is scheduled for November. The invitation has already been sent. There were also reactions from the health insurance funds. You asked me why I didn't draw this file to me. If my colleague from Work points out that the consultation should be given a chance, then I believe that the consultation should also be given a chance here. The amount is included in the budget. I want to do everything I can to get this amount from next month.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u56	Madam Secretary, you sound awesome. I appreciate that, because I think it's necessary. I know that you are waiting for the consultation, but I also think that you have an important role to play in pushing the consultation to reach an agreement this time. I also know what's in the KCE study. You know that I do not fully agree with the content. I insist that the cost of life-time such an intervention should be taken into account. There are also studies on this subject and these prove over and over again that it is better to reconstruct with your own tissue. From the reply to my previous question in May, you know that I realize that often an initial investment is needed in order to save on the long term. The N-VA is always willing to find these savings together with you, so that there is a budget available for the refund where necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u57	Mr President, Minister, over the last few weeks and months we have talked about the tax shift with the regularity of the clock. We disagree on this, not on the objective, but on the way in which it is implemented. For us it is fine that the lusts should be there, but we criticise the fact that the burden is mainly placed on the people who will eventually get those desires. So in the end, it's just a cardigan pocket operation. In addition, the lusts also come much later than the burdens. The index jump is now a fact. From 1 September 2015, the VAT increase for electricity will apply. On 1 November there will be increases in excise duties. The EUR 100 that the current government likes to show off has been set up for the future. We have been critical in this respect. Yesterday, however, we were very surprised to see a third problem added, at least if we can believe the Minister for the Budget. In particular, it points out that this tax shift, with the EUR 100 promised by the current government, is not covered. In other words, not enough money has been allocated. Minister Wilmès made a very sincere announcement yesterday in Le Soir. It takes 2 billion to finance the tax shift. You quickly countered her words with a press release that you launched one or two hours later, stating that there is no gap in the tax shift. The Minister for the Budget was here yesterday in committee. After your statements in the press, she has reaffirmed that there is indeed insufficient funding for the tax shift. Minister, I warned on a previous occasion that the present government must really pay attention so that the people outside of it would still believe. Here too, we are talking about the belief in the current government. It cannot be that the Minister for the Budget, who points out a deficit, and the Minister for Finance, who denies that deficit, are both right and credible. So, Minister, here's what I'm asking you. What's the matter now? Is there an underfunding or not now?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u58	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, let me start with the conclusion of my speech, which relieves you of the idea that there would be disagreement in the government and/or that there would be a problem with the financing of the tax shift. Minister Wilmès makes a macro-budgetary reflection, a reflection on the budget at macro-budgetary level, while I analyse the tax shift as a project, which naturally takes place within a budgetary reality, because almost every measure of the tax shift has had an impact on the budget. I must and can only conclude that the tax shift is fully funded until the end of 2018. In this way, we offer companies and citizens a very concrete perspective on concrete reductions in charges. Indeed, there are still efforts to be made from 2019. We have never been secretive about this, because the Prime Minister and I have already said this in plenary and Minister Wilmès has repeated it. It is an effort of around EUR 1 billion. We have been honest, clear and transparent about this. That also indicates the big difference with the past. We use revenue to reduce other burdens. We do not collect new taxes to increase budget deficits, we do not finance with debt and we do not launch projects that have not been financed at all, as has been the case in the past. So there's no such thing as a hole. In my opinion, the government has always been transparent and unambiguous about what happens to the budget in the macro-economic environment, which is certainly very internationally determined for a country like Belgium. We must therefore constantly adjust on the basis of the changes that are taking place. The agreement is, moreover, that the Prime Minister has also made it clear that we want to keep that budget on track through savings and by keeping structural interventions on track. Finally, Mr Vanvelthoven, I would like to put something to you. You say two things all the time. On the one hand, you say that the tax shift is not funded. On the other hand, you say that the increases in charges are far ahead of the reductions, which is actually an argument to say that the tax shift has been overfinanced. Using both arguments seems really bullshit to me. I would like you to clarify your position on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u59	Minister, I would have expected a different response from an economist. However, let me start by saying that it is a minister of your government who said yesterday that there is a problem with the financing of the tax shift. You are trying to pretend today that the Minister was talking about the budget in general. No, I'm talking about the tax shift. I have the interview with Mrs Wilmès here. She's talking very specifically about underfunding, a lack of funding for the tax shift. You can come up with your story now, but the Minister for the Budget says otherwise than what you say. That is a finding which I regret to have to make today and which, in other words, you are not correcting. Minister, what I do not understand is that you are here today to tell us that the difference with the past is that you do not levy new taxes. You should be ashamed to say that here. The sugar tax... If the desires of the tax shift are not there yet, this means that the burden you are imposing today is not for the tax shift of the future but for today's budget. They serve to fill the hole. That goes without saying, doesn't it? That's a simple budgetary logic, isn't it? Let me sum up: the sugar tax, the increase in VAT on electricity and the increase in certain excise duties from 1 November. Stop telling the story that this government doesn't levy any new taxes. Mr President, I will conclude with something that has not been said by Peter Vanvelthoven van de sp.a but by a professor, Professor Moesen: what this government says, you and Mrs Wilmès, is totally unprofessional and unbelievable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u60	Mr President, Minister, I believe that we can learn one thing from the energy debates of recent weeks, namely that it is important to focus on renewable energy, but that we must do so realistically and responsibly. In my view, this also applies to the wind energy sector. The whole of Flanders followed the solar panel discussion. Everyone agrees that we have actually intervened too late, although the warnings were there, and that we are paying a price for them now. You have asked the CREG to investigate offshore wind energy. There appears to be also a problem. The warning has now arrived at your office and we must do something about it. We all know that oversubsidisation has an important impact on the rates of the families and businesses. It's not about numbers after the comma, it's about millions on the invoice. The question then is, of course, how to deal with it. In short, Madam Minister, I ask you very clearly what you will do with these results. Do you have any concrete measures in mind? Will you take a regulatory initiative? Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u61	Mr President, Mr Wollants, I would first like to stress that the 2013 law already provides for a system to avoid overcompensation. This system already provides that when park projects – to note that no park has already been submitted to this new law – file their financial records with CREG, there is a possibility to review the support granted to them according to the law, since the law varies according to the price of electricity. This situation is examined in the four months preceding the closing of the financial year and also later in the four months preceding the three years following the closing of the financial year. The 2013 law also provided for a zero price when there is a positive imbalance in the market and the price is below - 20 euros per MWh. The government asked me to order a study from CREG. I've received the study that we're analyzing. We are currently studying the situation of projects that are submitted but are not yet carried out to see whether they are consistent, in terms of minimum public support, with what has already been done before, between them according to their specific conditions, so as not to alter too significantly the investments that have already been made and the revenues that are generated by these investments by avoiding overcompensation. I would add that, in the federal contribution, you have a capped and degressive share for large electricity consumers, so that they can maintain a decent overall electricity price and avoid external competitiveness problems. I will conclude by saying that all of this will not prevent us from ensuring that we meet our renewable obligations by 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u62	Madam Minister, I think it is indeed important that we get to work on the data now on the table. The aim must indeed be to fulfil our obligations in the field of renewable energy. However, when we talk about current yields, we must also note, for example, that we are looking at this in the Netherlands. If we look at it, we can see that there is still a cod underneath, to say it with a Dutch proverb. So there's margin. Let's look at it. That 12 % was considered as the maximum return we aim for at the time. Let's go through with that. It is absolutely important, whatever project it is about windmills, energy atolls or the expansion of the Coo storage plant to weigh the cost against the benefits, so that we can absolutely justify the steps we are taking.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u63	Mr President, Secretary of State, if refugees are recognised, they must leave the shelter. Some do so immediately because they can go somewhere else immediately. Others need a little more time because it is not easy to find a home right away. They may stay in the shelter for a maximum of two months. Last week, you proposed encouraging recognised asylum seekers to leave reception more quickly by giving them meal cheques. You see this not as a mandatory system, but as an additional initiative. Mr Secretary of State, I have the following questions. Has this proposal been discussed within the government, or at least with the ministers involved, such as Minister Borsus, responsible for Social Integration? What about social security contributions? Shouldn't they be paid for on those meal checks? What about the living wage? Does that affect the living wage? I have heard that it is the intention to deduct afterwards from the living wage that is to be paid. Then why do you give paper checks first and then subtract them from the living wage? Then one can give it as well under the form of a living wage, when someone is entitled to it. This may also affect the living wage or benefit of the person with whom one moves. Suppose one moves with a person who gets a living wage as a single person, then the OCMW can say at that moment that that person is no longer a single person but living together, and then the living wage can be reduced to that of a cohabitant. What about the right to guidance in the search for a home? Are the refugees well informed about these possible consequences? What is the advantage of this system over the current system? I fully understand that we need to work on a rapid exit from the shelter and that there is a need for the creation of shelters, but I do not think that we will be able to get there with this system. I think it would be wiser to sit around the table with the Regions and the Communities to tackle the real bottleneck, namely housing, and to develop systems, such as a rent guarantee fund or better accompaniment to housing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u64	Mr Secretary of State, Mr Nahima Lanjri has just outlined the context. I would also like to know the state of play. If people leave the shelter via the scheme with the meal cheques, but find nothing and come back afterwards, how much more will they be accompanied? Isn't there a danger that the meal cheques will be inserted and then knocked on the door of an OCMW to get an additional living wage? Meal vouchers are usually given when you work. It's kind of a paycheck. Then how do you feel about giving meal cheques to recognised refugees? Shall we give additional meal cheques to those who receive a living wage today? Or are these meal cheques mainly meant for people who have family here who can move in, without a transitional period, and to whom they give extra meal cheques for those two months?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday this question was not raised in committee because I had to leave. Next time, I'll stay a little longer. It is important to stress that we are working on three lines to manage this unprecedented refugee challenge in this country properly. Firstly, to create more shelters. We have already created a lot of additional shelters. We are going to 27 000 shelters by the end of this week. Tomorrow, I will make a further proposal to the government that additional capacity should be operationalised in the short term. The influx has fallen, but remains high, with 150 to 200 new asylum applications per day. Secondly, we have put additional resources on the table for the flow. There will be additional staff at the Commissioner General, with just over 120 people, and at the asylum service at the Foreign Affairs Office. Thirdly, the outflow is also important. The Commissioner-General is expected to take more than 1 500 decisions this month. That is a serious increase compared to last month and two months ago. That is a good thing. There is also a greater flow of refugees from the Council for Foreign Affairs Appeals. We will then come to your question. It is important to think about the two-month arrangement. There is now: people are entitled to two months after recognition to find a place. If these people can live with friends, family or acquaintances, I think they should be able to pour out faster with the help of meal cheques. That's an offer and not mandatory. The legal basis is the Reception Act of 2007. I think we should offer that opportunity. Where are we? The instruction was passed on to all center directors this week. The information meetings are now being held in our asylum centres on Belgian territory. Over the next few weeks, we'll see if this is successful. If this isn't the case, we'll try to adjust. I hope it's successful. Eventually, they will respond to a voluntary offer and they will also flow for a piece. You ask about the OCMW. If they're gonna live somewhere, they're gonna have to go there, too. Before the neighborhood cop came along and they were effectively donated there, we've gone a little further. In this sense, it is important that the meal cheques are given from the beginning. That's also the arrangement. That way, I think, we can increase the outflow. I hope so, we'll see. We continue to work actively in different domains. I am convinced that we can also take additional initiatives around the spill-over. This was discussed with Minister Borsus, don't worry. We will discuss further proposals with the government. There are still a lot of slopes being investigated about the outflow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u66	Mr Secretary of State, you have replied globally, but certainly not to my questions. Will the meal cheques then be withheld from the living wage? Will the meal cheques affect the living wage of the person with whom one lives? Should social contributions be paid? Does that have an effect on residential counseling? You have not answered all these questions. I shall then have to ask the questions again in committee. I think the only solution is not to pass the problem on to others, in this case the Communities and the Regions, but to work with them to find a solution to the present bottleneck. That bottleneck is the problem of housing. If we do not tackle this, the problem will only shift without solving it. We need to work on that. I invite you to consult with the Communities to address this problem. This can also be done in cooperation with the OCMWs, Mr Borsus, because they have an important role to play in this: helping people, anyone, refugees or Belgians in the search for a home.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u67	Mr Secretary of State, Mrs Lanjri has just made an incredible plea for reflection on a distribution plan. My point is this. You speak of the outflow, for your authority it is an outflow, but de facto this means a very large influx for our municipalities. We will have to work on that. I can see you giving meal cheques to people who can prove they're going to family. But please do not allow it for friends and acquaintances, because then you will get in trouble. I'm just saying to you for consideration. I would, of course, like us to sit down with the Länder and the local authorities to ensure that we are able to manage your outflow, the influx of others. I would also like to tell you that the OCMWFs can pay the living wage retroactively when they find that someone lives in their congregation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u68	By letter of 20 October 2015, the Head of the King's Cabinet sent me the wishes of His Majesty the King for the success of our Assembly's work. By letter dated 20 October 2015, the King's Chief of Staff conveyed to me the wishes of His Majesty the King for the success of the work of our Assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u69	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u70	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? (Non) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u71	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1250/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1250/1) The draft law contains two articles and an annex. The bill has two articles and one annex. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u72	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u73	At the request of the chairman of the Committee on External Relations, I propose the legislative proposal (Mrs Éric Thiébaut and Mr Laurent Devin, Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou, Mr Willy Demeyer and Mr Stéphane Crusnière and Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius) amending the Belgian nationality code on the declaration of Belgian nationality, No. 989/1, to be referred to the Justice Commission for its opinion. At the request of the chairman of the Committee on External Relations, I propose that you refer the bill back (MM. Eric Thiébaut and Laurent Devin, Ms Nawal Ben Hamou, MM. Willy Demeyer and Stéphane Crusnière and Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius) amending the Belgian Nationality Code as regards the protective declaration of Belgian nationality, No 989/1, to the Committee on Justice for opinion. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u74	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? No observation? Mr André Frédéric has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u75	Mr President, despite the hustle and bustle, I would like to make a request. In the list of proposals which we must take into account, I ask for a separate vote on motion for a resolution No 1391/1. Mr President, it is difficult to speak under these conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u76	Mr Frédéric, may I ask you to wait a little while so that the members who enter the Chamber can hear you?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u77	With pleasure, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, we have begun the point concerning the consideration of the proposals. Mr. Frédéric had asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u79	Mr President, I repeat what I have just said. On behalf of my group, I would like to ask for a separate vote on motion for a resolution No 1391/1. I am an ardent advocate of freedom of expression and freedom of parliamentary work. These are fundamental freedoms for everyone, even for those who belong to an extreme right-wing party. As with freedom of expression, there are limits to parliamentary work. Since calls for hatred cannot be protected by freedom of expression, Belgium's hatred cannot be the fabric of a proposal that would be taken into account in this Parliament. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today there is a text which aims to prepare "an orderly partition of Belgium". This proposal is nothing other than a declaration of war on Belgium, a call for the destruction of our country with sentences that call into question the democratic nature of our institutions, which speak of the failure of Belgium, of the putsch of political parties. In the current very difficult international context, where separatism and populism are widespread, it would, in my view, be a bad signal to accept the inclusion of this text. This is the justification of my group and I ask for a separate vote on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u80	Mr President, the FDF's request will be the same. If I am alone today, the whole party supports me in rejecting this motion for a resolution. It is clear that she has nothing to do in this assembly. We are all democrats and I think that the party making this proposal has no place here if it continues in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not our practice to oppose a request for consideration, even if the text comes from the far right. Having made this clarification, we call for a vote on the consideration of proposal 1391/1, which aims to prepare an orderly partition of Belgium, knowing that we will vote against that consideration. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that those here attached to Belgium and wishing to be the guardians of our democracy will oppose this consideration. Indeed, the text of the proposal in question is sufficiently clear that one may wish to oppose it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the Rules of Procedure, which provide that the author of the proposal may be given the floor for a maximum of five minutes, and that each group may then also have five minutes' speaking time. Not every group should use that speaking time, of course. The proposal comes from you, Mrs Pas, and you will be the first to have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u83	Mr President, I don't even need five minutes. Firstly, consideration is, as everyone in this Chamber knows, a purely technical issue. The content of the proposal will not be discussed. That will only happen in committee afterwards. Secondly, we have already tabled this proposal in the past. Under President Flahaut, of PS signature, there was apparently no problem in considering it. But now, Mr President, we want to force you to make this a dangerous precedent and not to allow it to be considered, when this is a purely technical issue. Thirdly, it is not because there is a Community standstill in this country and a Community duty of silence in a party of so-called Flemish nationalists that we should stick to it, that we should not keep the Community fire alive and that we should not want to have that debate. We are democratically elected, we fulfil our democratic duty by presenting legislative initiatives. This is purely a technical matter, the mere consideration. I would very much like to have the substantive discussion in due course if this proposal is properly considered, like any other draft, proposal or resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u84	Mr President, the consideration of a legislative proposal is indeed a formality. The N-VA Group is considering proposals on a weekly basis based on, among other things, the PS and with which we do not agree, but we are democrats and we also want to have a parliamentary debate on these proposals. Mr Frédéric, I have heard you say that you are very much in favour of freedom of expression and that this proposal by Mrs Pas would go against freedom of expression. Well, you are mistaken, you seem to know nothing about Strasbourg's case law or you do not want to know it, because the proposal is fully in line with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, in particular Article 10. I'll get you that justice so you can read it. So, according to the Strasbourg case law, it is possible to effectively ask for structures to be changed from one country to another. Our group is not expressing its opinion on the substance of the matter, and this is not the subject of consideration. The consideration is about whether or not to engage in a democratic debate. As a democratic party, we are clearly prepared to engage in a democratic debate with everyone. My group will therefore vote in favour of this recital.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u85	Mr President, my group has, for many years, been following a constant line in the matter of consideration. The essence of parliamentary democracy is that everything here in Parliament must be able to be discussed, but really everything. There have been proposals here in the past with which I totally disagreed on the substance. However, I still believe that it is my duty to accept that a debate can be held on this subject and that arguments can be put forward pro and contra. I am therefore somewhat an adept of the lighting philosophers. Voltaire once said: "I abhor your opinion, but I would give my life so that you might express it." That is punishment, but it means that we democrats must be able to discuss everything here in the assembly. I therefore abhor most of the views expressed by the group that tabled the proposal. However, I will always continue to debate the substance of the matter, because I believe that this is a better way to combat these views.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a young Member of Parliament, I have had a number of discussions in Parliament on a proposal on whether or not to introduce amnesty. After a while, that bad habit was over. I had hoped that in this Assembly we would respect the good practice of the last legislatures. When fellow Members present proposals which do not go against human rights, we could consider them without discussion. If we do not agree with it, we can use all our forces to fight it democratically. I call on the French-speaking colleagues who have just intervened in a different sense to continue this good tradition, which we had in the last few legislatures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u87	Do colleagues still ask to speak? Mrs Pas, it is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but you are asking for a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u88	Mr President, all I want to say is that I am a democrat at heart. If one does not consider something, if one does not even want to talk about something, if one does not even want to have the debate on something, even if one totally disagrees: that is undemocratic, that is the fact that freedom of expression is being denied. We have always made a habit of supporting the proposals. Every debate must be held here. The silliest proposals made by Laurent Louis were considered in the previous legislature. That's a good tradition. That is a tradition that must be preserved. I would like to thank my fellow Members who have at least that respect for this hemisphere and this House in which we find ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u89	We shall vote immediately on this consideration. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 56 Yes No. 63 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total [[120]] Total Consequently, the proposal is not taken into account. Consequently, the proposal is not considered. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 October 2015, I also propose that you consider: - the motion for a resolution by Mrs Anne Dedry and Mr Muriel Gerkens and Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Mr Kristof Calvo, Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Mr Benoit Hellings concerning a clear food labelling for healthy foods (Doc. 1425/1); - the proposal for a resolution by Mr Raoul Hedebouw and Mr Marco Van Hees on Belgian climate policy following the UN Conference on Climate Change in Paris (COP 21) (No. 1426/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u90	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 October 2015, I also propose that you take into account - the motion for a resolution by Anne Dedry and Muriel Gerkens and MM. Jean-Marc Nollet, Kristof Calvo, Stefaan Van Hecke, Wouter De Vriendt and Benoit Hellings to introduce clear labelling for a healthier diet (No. 1425/1); - the motion for a resolution by Mr Van den Broek, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Raoul Hedebouw and Marco Van Hees on Belgium's climate policy with a view to the United Nations Conference on Climate Change in Paris (COP 21) (No 1426/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u91	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u92	Mr President, we are talking about the millionaire tax (legislative proposal No. 1389/1). Colleagues, on 25 May Bart De Wever said something very interesting to him here in the House of Lords. He said it in French, but I will translate it: "Every proposal that will lead to the contribution of 1% of the richest in Belgium will be supported by the N-VA." A little further, he said: "Without reserve and with enthusiasm" Such a proposal simply does not exist. Well, Mr De Wever, the PVDA has submitted a bill on the millionaire tax, which would affect only 1% of the population. I hear you're looking for $2 billion for the budget. So you can now approve our request for urgency for the millionaire tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall be voting on this question for urgency in the usual way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u94	This interview was held at the public meeting of the External Relations Commission on 21 October 2015. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on External Relations on 21 October 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 068/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Dirk Van der Maelen; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Rita Bellens, Mrs Sarah Claerhout and Mr Nele Lijnen and Mr Tim Vandenput. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 068/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Dirk Van der Maelen; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Rita Bellens, Sarah Claerhout and Nele Lijnen and Mr Tim Vandenput. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u95	Mr President, a pairing was agreed between the PS Group and the Open Vld Group during the convalescence of our esteemed colleague Mr Luk Van Biesen. I'll take care of this pairing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u96	Mr President, with the interplay I wanted to charge Belgium with a january policy on humanitarian aid for refugees in Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey. At European level, it was agreed by our Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs that Europe would set up a Syria fund and an Africa fund and that EUR 500 million would be paid in for aid to refugees. After questioning the Minister for Development Cooperation, it became clear that Belgium has not paid any euro into it until today and does not want to pay up the euro. The purpose of my interplay and the motion was to restore the unity of this government. If the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister were to commit themselves at European level, the Minister for Development Cooperation would also better ensure that the Belgian contribution goes into these European funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u97	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 77 Yes No. 52 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u98	Mr President, I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u99	This inquiry was developed in the public meeting of the Social Affairs Committee on 21 October 2015. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Social Affairs Committee on 21 October 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 046/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Wouter Raskin, Vincent Van Quickenborne et Stefaan Vercamer. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 046/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Wouter Raskin, Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne and Mr Stefaan Vercamer. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my inquiry followed the remarks made by the Secretary of State, who, as a reminder, had assimilated the commitment of volunteers and volunteers to work in the dark. Remember, he had targeted especially those volunteers who invest in the Red Cross. Through this inquiry and, above all, through this motion, we call for the Secretary of State - in a broader way, the government - to stop any confusion between black work and volunteering and volunteering. Finally, the importance of all the investment must be recognised, as more than one million volunteers are involved in Belgium. It is also time to make an evaluation of the July 2005 Act, particularly in order to assess whether the benefits received by volunteers can be increased.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u101	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u102	Yes 78 Yes No. 52 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 131 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u103	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 21 October 2015. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 21 October 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 069/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sarah Smeyers. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 069/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Sarah Smeyers. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u104	Mr President, as a result of a number of recent events, I have interviewed the Secretary of State. It is literally and figuratively an open door when people say that there is a serious asylum crisis going on. The borders in Italy and Greece are as leaky as a sieve and the European asylum policy saddles us with an asylum policy with which we disagree and where we no longer have the powers to decide who enters our territory under what conditions. There has been discussion, fortunately, about a completely different approach in Europe. Many Member States are not happy with that. In this country, too, I have finally heard voices saying what we have been saying for years, in particular that a number of things need to be reviewed internationally. For example, the Geneva Convention on the Status of Refugees, which has been in force for more than 65 years, needs to be revised. I was therefore pleased that Mr Bart De Wever, at some host college, literally said the following about the Geneva Convention: "This Convention is written in a completely different context, but it is not charged. Some countries have developed generous social security and the Geneva Convention serves as a ticket to be a refugee. I continue: "Legal rules are not moral maxims, but the translation of a social consensus at a time in time and in a specific space. If that consensus changes, the law must adapt to it. Consensus should not be adapted to the law. I can only conclude from this that there is also talk here of an amendment to the refugee treaty, which is, moreover, being applied much more flexibly in Belgium than is currently prescribed. In other words, Mr President, I am counting on Mr De Wever's support, so that he can show that they have not only been academic reflections at a guest lecture, but are also real intentions. In the meantime, the European groups of the Christian Democrats and the N-VA in the European Parliament have already made it clear that they want to move in this direction. So let us support this motion of recommendation as a support to those European groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u105	Are there any other explanations of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 78 Yes No. [[43]] No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 132 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Colleagues, Mr Christophe Defossa, Director of the Summary Report Department, is present today for his last plenary session. He'll retire next month. Mr. Defossa joined the House on 1 January 1977 and has been the head of the service since 2002. I wish Mr Defossa, who is the last of a generation to have combined the work in the Chamber with journalistic work, the very best after his retirement. I wish him much joy! [[Long-term applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u106	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 126 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1250/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1250/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-29-54-plenair-ip079x.u107	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 12 November 2015. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 12 November 2015. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 12 November 2015 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 12 November 2015, at 2.15 p.m.
