ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall continue with the questions on the agenda. Mr Delizée is on his way. I propose that we ask his question No. Okay, let's hold off on 5769. Questions Nos 6192, 6209, 6210 and 6832 by Mrs Dierick will be converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Matz's 6884 expires. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Cassart-Mailleux's 6894 has been withdrawn. Mrs. Vanheste is on her way. Mrs. Lalieux will be here later. We come to Mr de Lamotte's questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u2	Mr.President, Minister, on March 19, 2014, the law defining the artisan was passed in Parliament. However, it will enter into force only on the date fixed by the King, in accordance with article 28. Minister Borsus stated in committee on 7 July 2015 that he had "the intention of bringing the law into force on 1 January 2016" and therefore that the register of craftsmen would finally be operational, as well as the logo allowing to recognize them. The term craftsman is in fact very often used to promote qualities, a know-how that the company does not necessarily have. That is why it is essential for this law to enter into force quickly. However, in addition to artisans or artisans, it is the term "craftsman" which is also falsely used for products that are far from being "craftsman" and which contain a large number of preservatives, thickeners or other preservatives, such as "treating salades". I will not go back to the need to review the European provisions which impose labelling obligations, particularly with regard to the presence of these additives, but it would also be necessary to clarify the term "crafts". Are there any discussions with the sector and other relevant ministers on the agenda regarding the use of the term "craft" on the various preparations sold in trade? Do you intend to take steps to increase consumer information about the term "craftsman" which is thus made available?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr de Lamotte, the questions asked do not directly concern the craft quality of a company, which is the subject of the law of 19 March 2014, but rather the craft character of a product. As regards your first question, food labelling is the subject of a European regulation which entered into force at the end of 2014. In general, this Regulation stipulates that information on foodstuffs may not be misleading as regards their character or method of manufacture. This also applies to the use of the term artisanal. Furthermore, Book 6 of the Code of Economic Law prohibits all misleading commercial practices directed at consumers. For example, misleading the main characteristics of a product or service or the way it is manufactured is prohibited. However, it can be concluded that both foodstuffs and other products or services are already protected against the abuse of the term 'craft'.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u4	I take note of the minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u5	Mr President, Minister, the information given to consumers is often not in line with reality. This is particularly the case with regard to new technologies. Two very eloquent examples can be highlighted. First, in the case of smartphones, the memory capacity presented in the advertisements does not correspond to the capacity actually available as it is already widely used by the operating system and pre-installed applications. Secondly, in terms of internet connection, it is common for operators to promise a download speed but that it is not on the rendezvous. Minister, are specific controls carried out on technological products to ensure consumer protection? Have any complaints been registered in this area? Should not provisions be made to clarify the data for the consumer, particularly with regard to the available memory?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u6	Colleagues, with regard to the speed of downloading an Internet connection, the information requirements have been set by the IBPT, which reports to the Minister responsible for Telecommunications. I'm sending you back to him about that. As far as my powers are concerned, the Code of Economic Law, more specifically Book 6, contains rules on pre-contractual information and rules prohibiting unfair practices against consumers. These rules constitute the transposition of European directives on maximum harmonisation; it is therefore not possible for a Member State to lay down additional rules in these areas. The number of reports received by the Economic Inspectorate concerning misleading advertisements in the Internet sector and ICT articles is very small. For the current year, these are only 44 reports.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u7	Minister, thank you for these answers, which I take note of. I believe that the provisions concerning the available brief could be refined in Belgian law. I will come back to this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u8	Mr Minister, on the issue of close caregivers, there are obviously positive points, but also negative ones. It is true that specific insurance for close caregivers is a considerable step forward for these people and their families, who are obviously the key players in support, especially for people with disabilities or high dependency. I would like to welcome this initiative, bearing in mind that the risks taken by close caregivers in the context of this day-to-day support are important. I'll go back. Where it's less positive is that I don't feel on the part of the government (and I'm not just talking about your competence) a willingness to give close caregivers a full status and to address all the issues. I'll take an example. In his policy note, your colleague, Mrs Sleurs, does not say a word on this issue. It's a bit of a surprise for me. When asked about the subject, she did not answer. She did not use the word in the answers either, while her predecessor had a law passed that defined the concept of close caregiver. So I think that the person in charge of the disability, as well as other colleagues, should also be involved in this issue. What's happening is that we have a sausageed approach. Everyone does things in their corner without a global vision. In what is negative, for example, the reduction in the number of months of exemption in the labour market for close caregivers is a reduction in rights and a reduction from the previous situation, as well as the abolition of other rights for a number of them. To return to assurance, this is a positive point. I want to say that because I still want to have a comprehensive analysis of the file. Depending on what you have planned, close caregivers will be able to take out personal injury or damage insurance for medical equipment. In addition, legal protection would be offered. I salute him. It's going in the right direction. However, it seems to me that there is a problem. In order to benefit from this insurance, it would appear that the person providing care must be registered with a registered association of close caregivers. This is clearly a difficult task, since the measure concerns almost 400,000 people and, on the French-speaking side (I assume that the same is true for the Dutch-speaking side), there are only five workers in the nearby Aidants asbl. If 400,000 people are to be approved throughout the country, for both the French and Dutch-speaking wings, this will be a considerable job. The bill passed under the previous legislature was welcomed by the sector. It allowed for a clear definition of the immediate caregiver and the elaboration of a specific procedure providing that the immediate caregiver may, with the consent of the assisted person or his legal representative, submit a request for recognition, via a declaration of honour to the mutuality of the immediate caregiver. This application is to be renewed annually. Why not rely on what already exists? We are now changing the logic that was envisaged and which, administratively, seems to me to be more operational. Why did you decide to entrust this task of registration to the approved associations which, by their very admission, will probably not be able to take on this task? Have you involved representatives of these people, including the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities and all associations of close caregivers, in the development of your system? If so, what were their views and comments, if any? When will this insurance be available? Have you imposed specific conditions on insurance companies so that this insurance remains accessible to as many people as possible, knowing that many families are already in a precarious financial situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u9	Mr Delizée, this is a very important issue. You say that my colleagues are not worried about this, but I do not agree with you, that is your perception. I am convinced that the federal and regional governments are concerned and wish to address this issue. Mrs Winckel knows very well that this is a subject for which a lot of questions have been asked. As Minister responsible for Employment, I can tell you that there is a great demand to be able to insure against certain risks, both for personal injuries and for civil liability. However, it seems very difficult to find, via the private market, tailor-made insurance that is payable. Risks are difficult to estimate and needs are specific for this well-defined sector. That is why I have brought together the associations active in the field of close caregivers and the insurance companies in order to find a solution. Three insurers have developed an insurance contract. These are KBC, Belfius Insurance and Ethias Insurance. On November 10, a meeting was held at my office with the associations of close caregivers and the insurance companies I have just mentioned. During this interview, the insurance companies had the opportunity to unveil their insurance package and the associations of close caregivers had the opportunity to ask their questions. Both sides were very positive after this interview. It is now up to the associations of close caregivers to get around the table with the insurance company of their choice and to settle the last agreements for the conclusion of the contract. The reason why I did not use the definition of close caregiver as defined in the current law is because I believe that the need for insurance is in a wider segment of the population. I hope, Mr. Delizée, I have done more or less my job to stimulate insurance companies to do something. I am very positive about the fact that KBC, Befius Insurance and Ethias Insurance have thought and formulated an insurance contract. Now, I hope, the associations of close caregivers will find a solution with these three or one of these three companies. This is the first step and I am also convinced that this is not the last one because we still have a lot to do. I remember Mrs Winckel also asked me about the subject. At that time, I had told him that there was a pilot project in Flanders. You said that there was no need to wait for this pilot project and that we could move forward. I hope that I have been able to give you some answers to Mrs Winckel's questions on the progress of this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u10	Minister, I shall return for a moment to the negative aspect. The decrease in the number of months of dispensation on the labour market for close caregivers - for mothers who will stay at home to supervise, care for and accommodate a child, a young adult, an elderly person in a situation of great dependence - is not a step forward, it is a step backwards. I do not find it normal that in a general policy note on disability, there is no word on this subject from the Secretary of State. You are right to mention that the Regions and the Communities are concerned and that they should be coordinated. I think the person who has to do this is also the Secretary of State responsible for disabled people who can be the coordinator of a consultation since there is "zorgverzekering" in Flanders and other things. I am in favour of "samenwerkingsfederalism" which is a concept dear to Mr Leterme in particular and perhaps to others also in your political formation. I think it is indeed worth taking this issue in general to move it forward on a number of points. In particular, on the insurance side, I support any initiative that you take and that is in favour of it. I'm not in a political game. If it's favorable, it's very good. And if you've consulted the sector, it's also very good. On the other hand, what concerns me is this question of registration that would be done by the French-speaking and Dutch-speaking wings. There are not many associations of close caregivers. To my knowledge, there are two. It'll be an impossible job. Have you discussed this with these associations? What do you say to them, while the law, which was passed under the previous legislature also by your political party, provided for recognition, a declaration on honour by mutualities? I think that, in principle, organised structures can manage this administrative flow of recognition. You did not answer me on this point. For the rest, I'm glad there's a package. The question of registration still remains.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u11	Mr Delizée, like you, I am pleased that three insurance companies have a draft insurance contract. But this discussion must now continue between the organizations of close caregivers and the insurance companies. If a problem is reported, I would like to intervene to find a solution. But it is now up to insurance companies to find a solution because there are insurance aspects, technical aspects, etc. In the first phase, it is not up to me to intervene by asking them to find a solution in this or that direction. If the two associations of close caregivers and the insurance companies do not reach a solution or encounter the problems you have reported, I would like to intervene. I hope they agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u12	Minister, I have drawn your attention to something that deserves to be done with the actors to find a solution. At some point, people must be recognized as close caregivers. This is not how it is done. We need a procedure. What is the optimal procedure? Is it through mutualities, as the law provides? Or by another mechanism? In that case, the mechanism must be given the means to function. I have drawn your attention and will return to this point. I invite you to think about it with all the parties involved and perhaps come up with a concrete solution. We'll have an opportunity to get back to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u13	Mr Minister, we are now seeing a proliferation of labels on food packaging. Not only can the consumer no longer see the trees through the forest, they are often deceptive. Not every label needs to be approved. In fact, producers can make up their own label. It is important that consumers know what they are eating. When looking for organic products or products made through fair trade, the information on the packaging should not mislead. The FPS Economy revealed these misleading labels. What are the next steps? What are you going to do about the labels that are already being used and contain misleading information? Are you going to ban misleading labels in the future? Do you think that each producer can put labels on the packaging at his sole discretion? Where do you draw the line between advertising for the product and providing information stamps?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u14	Mr Vanheste, the rules to prevent misleading information on food via labels are already in place. The European Regulation No............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 1169/2011 on the provision of food information to consumers provides a regulatory framework to minimise misleading food information. Food information in accordance with this Regulation should not be misleading as regards the characteristics of a food by attributable to a food effects or properties which it does not possess or by suggesting that the food has special characteristics while all similar foods have the same characteristics. Moreover, it should not be suggested that a food or an ingredient is present in a product when it is a food or ingredient which is naturally present in the product but has been replaced in practice by another. These provisions shall apply to all food information, including advertising and the manner in which a food is offered. If the Economic Inspectorate finds that a label contains misleading information or if it receives a complaint in this context, action will be taken. In concrete terms, this means that when the investigation finds an infringement, a report of warning or a pro-Justice is drawn up and that the file can be transferred to the public prosecutor. The sanctions for infringements of the FIC Regulation are level 2 sanctions, from EUR 26 to EUR 10 000, multiplied by six. There is no problem in so far as a producer designs a label which is not contrary to the rules governing the provision of information to consumers. To what extent such a label has an added value is a question outside the legal framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u15	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. There are high penalties for misleading consumers. Are additional checks being carried out now that you know that misleading labels are placed on the products? The sanctions are quite high, but if there are no controls, the chances of action are very low.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u16	If there are complaints, checks will be carried out. If there's any complaints, I'm assuming immediate action will be taken. If there are no complaints, people are less proactive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u17	It was my intention to find out if there is a proactive check.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u18	Especially if there are complaints, there is action.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u19	Mr President, Minister, the most common practice of giving up insurance is still a registered letter at the moment. This also informs the site of the FPS Economy. However, exceptions have been reported for members of Assuralia. They could also cancel by e-mail. In 2015, the cumbersome procedure through a registered letter does not seem to me anymore of this time. Minister, do you see an opportunity to work on a clear, simple and uniform way to terminate insurance contracts by electronic means?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u20	Mr President, Mrs Vanheste, in some respects the current legislation is no longer in line with current practice in 2015. This is therefore one of the main points in the codification exercise of insurance law which is currently under way. In this context, together with Mr De Croo, I can screen the current regulatory framework for digital simplification where the European regulatory framework allows it. However, I believe that there are also situations where a registered letter is preferable to a simple e-mail. Sometimes the choice has been made consciously to build in a certain formalism, so that the consumer will pay sufficient attention to his actions. I am thinking, for example, of the purchase of a life insurance policy. Also for identification an e-mail is not always sufficient. However, this does not mean that this formalism cannot be achieved by electronic means. I have instructed the FSMA and the FOD Economy to make an inventory of the required adjustments in book VII. Then I will look with the sector at how these adjustments can be implemented in practice. Finally, I would like to point out that I also believe that the provision of electronic procedures should in no way result in the consumer being prevented from choosing the paper route.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hope your investigation will produce some results soon. Will you play the result spontaneously or should I ask for it again?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u22	We can do both.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u23	When will you receive the result? I do not want to repeat this question every 14 days.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u24	You know I have to do this with my colleague De Croo. You do not have to ask a question about this every week. We will publish this when we know the result, and if so, you can ask a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u25	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u26	Mr President, Minister, as part of the ongoing negotiations on the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) between the European Union and the United States, it was foreseen that the SPF Economy would calculate as closely as possible the real impact of such a TTIP on the economy and employment in Belgium. After many questions on this subject, it was finally learned last July that the SPF Economy had launched a public procurement in order to carry out such a study of the impact of TTIP in Belgium. In particular, it will analyse the implications for the various sectors, for SMEs and for the different regions of the country, as well as the impact on employment, working conditions and the environment. I am, of course, pleased that we are finally taking the initiative for such an impact assessment, which I felt was particularly necessary and urgent. I look forward to its results, which are scheduled for the end of the year. We're almost there. However, it does not seem certain that they are made public. What exactly is it? Hopefully, such a study will not remain confidential and we will be able to see it quickly. The opposite would simply make no sense, and it would be unacceptable and irresponsible, even though the lack of transparency surrounding this TTIP is the subject of many criticisms. Furthermore, is it expected that this Belgian impact assessment will take into account the latest developments in the various trade negotiations currently under way? On 5 October, a large trade agreement was signed between the United States and 11 countries around the Pacific, excluding China, under the name Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). The implications of this agreement will be important, including for EU countries, as it covers about 40% of total trade. Indeed, the TPP, if ratified, will necessarily change the situation in the US market for European companies that will have to compete with new outside actors in the Pacific. Not only will trade barriers be minimized in virtually all sectors, including those generally protected such as agriculture, but common standards will also have to be used by all participants, whether for investment, the environment or for work. Therefore, the projected effects of TTIP will need to be revised to properly reflect this new reality. What is your analysis of the signature of this TPP and its implications for the TTIP negotiations? Beyond the current Belgian study, had this potential impact of the TPP been taken into account in the study carried out by the CEPR at the request of the European Commission, which estimated the growth of European GDP at 0.5% after 10 years in the event of the implementation of the TTIP? If this is not the case, and considering that Europeans will now have to meet with exporters from 11 competing EU countries in the US market, is there no urgent need for an update of the TTIP impact assessment, on which the European Commission is based, by introducing this new competitive factor involved in the TPP? Since this information is essential for judging the final impact of the TTIP on the European market, is there no need to suspend, as we recommend, the TTIP negotiations, while at least waiting to be clear about this new development?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u27	Mrs Matz, first of all, with regard to the impact assessment of TTIP, I would like to inform you that I gave my approval when it was launched and that the public procurement procedure has been finalised.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u28	So this is not the result of the study?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u29	No! A decision to award the contract is taken and the procedure has entered the final stage. The results will be available at the end of June 2016 only. With regard to the implications of the Trans-Pacific Partnership for TTIP, I would like to point out that it is, for two reasons, premature to assess this for the time being. First of all, the agreement reached in early October between the United States and the 11 countries around the Pacific is an agreement in principle. The texts will still have to go through a legal review exercise and may therefore still be subject to some adaptations. Secondly, the official text of the agreement has not yet been published. I will therefore not fail to reply to you in a more detailed manner once the various legal texts have been formally published. Of course, when preparing the impact assessment of the TTIP for Belgium, we will try to take into account the influence of this agreement as far as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u30	Minister, thank you for that answer. I thought you were going to tell me that you had the results of the impact assessment; I always wondered why this study had been entrusted to the SPF Economy instead of entrusting it, for example, to the Office of the Plan, knowing that this is the equivalent of the CEPR body which was mandated by the Commission to carry out the impact assessment throughout the European territory. It's still something pretty weird. Of course, this is an agreement in principle, but we still know the broad outlines of it. I do not see how you will be able to take these results into account, since the market has just been launched, without that parameter. When you receive the results, they will probably not integrate, unless you can, during the market, slightly modify its purpose, the conclusion of this new trade agreement. We will wait until the end of June and we hope. It is a little imprudent on the part of the government to continue in the TTIP negotiations knowing that there is no Belgian impact assessment. The reason is that negotiations should be suspended for time to have these elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u31	Mr President, Minister, my questions fit in with the strengthening of the role of CEDEFOP. By the way, I fully support this, because this database has an unmistakable advantage for both entrepreneurs and administrative users. I have a number of questions about this. The first concerns the re-use of the identification numbers. Previously assigned identification numbers in the KBO would be reused. It could be said that this is a healthy way of dealing with resources, but in a database that can lead to wrong crossings. Is it correct to re-use previously assigned identification numbers? Why is this happening? There are, after all, sufficient codes and figures available to allocate new ones. If this happens effectively, how much time does the CBO allow for re-use of an identification number? Does the CBO, for example, await the expiry of the 30-year period or the period in which the data must be kept by the CBO? As you know, this period shall be calculated from the date of the loss of the legal personality of the legal person or of the permanent cessation of activity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u32	Mr President, Mr Van de Velde, it is not right that the unique identification number assigned by the CBO can be reused by another company. Unless you have information that indicates something else, then I would like to receive it. Article 4 (1) of the Royal Decree of 24 June 2003 laying down the rules governing the granting, composition and transfer of the company number and the establishment unit number in the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises provides that "The company number assigned to a legal person shall not be transferable to another undertaking'. The company number of the bankrupt legal person remains exclusively linked to this company and cannot therefore be reused by another company. That is very clear and is stated in Article 4 § 1. Similarly, the company number assigned to an undertaking natural person cannot be transferred. That's in Article 5 of the same royal decree. A natural person shall always retain the company number assigned to him at the time of his registration. If the company is declared bankrupt but is subsequently re-executed, the exercise of its economic activity will therefore be carried out under the company number initially allocated. In answer to your second question, there is no re-use of company numbers. Thirdly, the company number is not reused, the data of the discontinued companies are kept in the CBO.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u33	Minister, that is clear. I'll give you the source.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u34	Mr President, Minister, as a result of the introduction of the KBO Act into the Code of Economic Law, then Minister Vande Lanotte removed the obligation under the Registrys to impose the administrative bans under Royal Decree No. 22 of 24 October 1934 in the KBO. The reason can be found in the discussion of the Code of Economic Law in the Chambers Committee, i.e. that some of these judgments were not entered in the CJU and were merely the subject of a paper classification. In practice, the Registrys simply did not pass these prohibitions anymore. The KB No. 22, according to the JUSTEL databases, the judgments and judgments rendered pursuant to Article 3a of this Decision shall, where appropriate, be reported in the Trade Register. They shall be sent to the Central Trade Register. The KBO and business offices have become the replacements of the Trade Register. In accordance with Article 490 of the Criminal Code, the relevant professional prohibitions shall be published in the Belgian Official Journal. This is, of course, an important point in following up companies in particular and the way in which they are run, even up to and including recovery. We have a number of examples of people who have been banned but for whom this has not been followed. Moreover, your colleague from the Justice Department has already admitted quite literally that it is almost impossible to follow, as it is being organised today. Hence my question. Following the replacement of the Trade Register by the KBO, where will the administrative bans be imposed pursuant to Article 3? How can interested parties seek out who was or was not sentenced to a professional ban by a court of commerce? If a person is appointed director of a commercial company, will the KBO check whether or not this person was sentenced to an administrative ban? If this is not done by the Feds, which public authority is responsible for this task?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Van de Velde, the Registrys of the Commercial Courts are responsible for the registration of directors and other statutory functions, according to Article 10 of the Royal Decree. They do this under the responsibility of the Justice Department, Article 5. The FPS Justice Department was asked how the administrative bans are controlled. The legislation does not provide for a prior check by the Registry. However, prosecution by the prosecution is possible when an infringement is found. Control of administrative prohibitions does not fall within the competence of the CBO Management Service. The mission of the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises is to preserve and make available data on companies. On the other hand, administrative and professional prohibitions always concern a person, so they are not data of an undertaking. Reference may also be made to Article III.18 (1) of the Code of Economic Law. That article lists the information contained in the FBO. This does not mention administrative or professional prohibitions. There is no unique database or source for the professional bans. However, there is control by the approved business offices, inter alia by requesting the bankruptcy decisions. Professional prohibitions are also included in the criminal record of a person. It seems appropriate that I should be careful to question the relevant Minister of Justice about the modalities under which interested parties can access this information. I shall, of course, consult with my colleague if you insist, as I understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u36	Minister, you have understood that very well. I do not wish to pretend that I am smart enough to find out all of this myself, but the good discussions that have taken place in preparation for the recovery of the code have shown that there are a number of covens coming together in such problems. I'm out of line to give you that, but I think it's important that you know that. There are a number of covens where these kinds of problems come together. These come together when registering in the Trade Register and also with the tax administration. At the moment when the tax administration is confronted with debtors of all kinds, it checks the entire route. The trap at the end very often collects all the problems that have not been solved in advance. The lack of respect for a professional ban and the frequent re-launching of companies in one way or another, even with stromens, of course, there are techniques behind which are absolutely not traceable, even in the first place, so that at the end people are very often confronted with a hopeless case, especially in the case of recovery, in order to be able to recover those taxes. I hope you mean it and we don't just do it. I will stress in the Finance Committee that this is happening. At the start of the procedure, more attention must be paid to the prohibition of work. It is even necessary to provide for the possibility of monitoring relations that are clear with regard to people who are banned from working. Otherwise, it's gonna last. We are in a very negative spiral there. It is also very frustrating for the recovery.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u37	Mr President, this question may be less interesting, but it is therefore no less important. Mr Minister, first of all, it is for a company to withdraw its registration from the Crossroads Bank at the end of its activity or its legal personality. The KBO shall, of its own motion, carry out the activities, qualities, authorisations and units of establishment of, first, natural persons whose founder has already died for at least six months and, second, legal persons whose liquidation or closure of the bankruptcy was declared at least three months ago. Since 1 July 2013, companies that have failed to comply with their obligation to deposit annual accounts for at least three consecutive financial years may be automatically removed from the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises. The same applies to dormant companies. Mr Minister, my questions to you are as follows. What policy is the Crossroads Bank pursuing with regard to the publication of the data of cross-border companies? Legally, the data must be kept in the CBO for 30 years from the date of the loss of legal personality for the legal persons or of the permanent cessation of activity, as we said earlier. Will that data remain public during that period? Can we assume that the data of dormant companies and detached legal entities, due to the non-submission of their annual accounts, will be preserved indefinitely and will remain available to the public?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Van de Velde, you are becoming or are already a great expert on the Crossroads Bank of Enterprise and all that has to do with it. I am happy to bring your expertise to a higher level, because that can only benefit us all. I can answer your first question as follows. First, the automatic decommitment, referred to in Article III.42, § 1, 1°, 2° and 3° of the Code of Economic Law, consists of the data of undertakings which have already ceased to exist. The cessation of such data, in particular on activities, capacities, authorisations and establishment units, is visible to everyone via the KBO Public Search website. In addition, the cancellation of the accounts for non-compliance is also published in the Belgian Official Journal, as is the cancellation or withdrawal of that type of cancellation. Now I come to your second question. The data of discontinued companies shall be kept in the CBO database. During the 30-year retention period, the general public can consult the data of discontinued companies free of charge via KBO Public Search. I can refer to the second paragraph of Article 1 (4) of the Royal Decree. As far as your third question is concerned, the KBO database will keep the data of the deleted companies indefinitely. This data will also remain publicly available through KBO Public Search.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u39	Mr President, Minister, I will explain why I asked that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u40	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u41	The essence is that companies that do not hold annual accounts today have 3.5 years of freedom. We have drafted a legislative proposal which limits it to one year and allows interested parties to intervene fairly quickly in the non-dumping of annual accounts. This non-delay is a signaling function in various areas, also in fiscal terms. It is important that the data remain available, despite that deadline, even if we reduce it to a year. These data are often used in criminal proceedings, which in many cases involve non-profit organisations in urban environments; hence my healthy interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u42	Your bill has already been filed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u43	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u44	Minister, the Worldline payment network is regularly confronted with more or less long breakdowns that prevent any transaction and thus create annoyance, confusion and dry loss for thousands of independents and SMEs. Thus, at the end of September, a technical problem at Worldline temporarily deprived many traders of their Bancontact recipes. At the beginning of October, technical concerns were reported in several parts of the country as a result of a human error. The grunt caused by these technical problems is due in particular to the almost monopolistic situation of Worldline, the operator in charge of Bancontact/Mister Cash systems. Indeed, despite the liberalisation of the market over the past year, the operator would still hold between 80 and 90 % of the market, which would allow it to impose on traders the conditions it wishes, whether in terms of terminal costs, transaction costs or the absence of compensation procedures. Following the latest disruptions, it would appear that the National Bank has decided to conduct an independent audit in order to identify the problems and examine whether there is a need to strengthen legislation. In this context, Minister, I wanted to ask you the following questions. Will the results of this audit be made public? Within which time will it be delivered? Furthermore, are you in favour of establishing a legislative framework and a regulatory system for the sector (as is the case for example in the field of energy)? Finally, what measures have been decided upon and within what time frame will it be implemented, following the last meetings you had with Worldline officials?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u45	Mr Minister, my colleague has indeed referred to the malfunction which has affected a significant part of electronic payments on the Atos Worldline network. I wanted to point out to you, even though I'm sure you know, that the buyers' account was debited but the payments were not returned to the sellers' account. This is where this poses a certain problem for traders. I know that on September 28, you met with representatives of the company Atos Worldline as a result of this breakdown to promote the feelings of traders and resellers. I think you need to be sensitive to improving the efficiency of the service of these electronic terminals. I would have wanted to know what had emerged from that meeting on 28 September. I had already asked your colleague, Minister Borsus, about this in relation to the consumer. I would now like to know what you could see in terms of commitments made to improve e-business services. After this meeting, you should be able to inform us. At the government level, are you considering specific measures to promote greater competition in this market?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u46	Colleagues, it is true that Atos Wordline, formerly Banksys, once held a quasi-monopoly and still occupies a dominant position in the card payment market in Belgium. In the past, all Bancontact and Mister Cash debit transactions and most credit card transactions were processed by Wordline. The new European Regulation on fees for card-related payment transactions or the MIF Regulation aims to increase competition between the various parties concerned. Among the payment card operators, there are already more and more players in Belgium who deal with card transactions and who enter into contracts with traders such as Ingenico, German service, or the Belgian company B+S Payment Europe SPRL. Where, once, Maestro was used only for cross-border payments, more and more purely Belgian transactions are now being processed according to this international scheme. This company therefore competes with Worldline. Because of the malfunctions that you rightly mention and that are linked to Atos Worldline's network, a meeting did indeed take place on 28 September. On that occasion, the following items were discussed. First, Atos Worldline is subject to the prudential supervision of the National Bank of Belgium. As such, it is currently being audited. The findings cannot be made public because of the professional secrecy attached to the supervisory activities of the National Bank. If so, a more hard law approach could be more effective. The creation of a level playing field would thus ensure greater equity for new entrants in the open market of card payment processing. Then, on my initiative, Atos Worldline met with the representative federations of traders in order to make commitments in terms of service providing compensation in case of a major incident. In the meantime, an agreement has been reached. In addition, the aim was to provide real transparency towards traders, particularly on the costs of services and transactions. Finally, there was talk of improving the quality of communication when incidents occur. These three elements are essential to establish genuine transparency and to encourage Atos to respond adequately to traders in case of a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u47	Minister, thank you for your answers. We can only welcome all the plans and points that you have described in order to remedy this situation of dominance of Worldline and greater transparency vis-à-vis traders and businesses that are on the front line in the event of trade. It is even known that this can lead to serious financial problems or even to cessations if this type of problem is repeated too often. We are talking about whole sections of economic activity and many jobs affected, hence the importance of this issue that we will continue to follow closely. You mentioned the fact that the audit of the National Bank will remain confidential. That is a shame because we would have wanted to know the analysis that was made.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u48	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear that the audit is confidential, but I hope that as the appropriate minister, you will be keen to follow this file so that Atos Wordline is really inclined to give a better service to the merchants, despite its important position in the sector. I also hear that the Federation of Traders has reached an agreement on a service commitment. That seems to me to be extremely important. This means that Atos has understood the stakes. If there is a stake for traders, there is a stake for Atos too, even though he is a leader in the sector. As far as transparency is concerned, you must be the guarantor of the fact that it works well. You must be at the heart of the problem so that traders are no longer penalized during peak times and that they are privileged by Atos. I hear you're on the ball so that it goes well for the Christmas period that is important for all our traders and for our independents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u49	Ms Winckel, during the drafting of the royal decree prohibiting group swings equipped with rigid suspension elements for playgrounds, sectoral federations - Recrebel and Fedustria - were consulted. Several operators of playgrounds equipped with these group swings were also warned during checks of the forthcoming publication of the royal decree mentioned above. There will be no specific control campaigns for these group swings. On the other hand, it is clear that our inspectors will ensure, during the checks on the playgrounds, that the Royal Decree referred to above is applied. Failure to comply with the Royal Decree may result in a fine of 26 to 25 000 euros as set out in Book 15 of the Code of Economic Law. No transitional period has been set. During future game area controls, the SPF Economy will order the systematic decommissioning of the group swings. Experience has taught us that, in most cases, operators do so on a voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u50	This is a step in the right direction. It is not always obvious to legislate when the product is on sale on the market, but when a risk to the safety of children arises, it is good to be able to act. If there was a safety failure, the children would be insecure. It is therefore essential to communicate well about your order because it is necessary to inform as many citizens as possible and I have not understood the part of your answer in which you claim to have informed the sector. There are also public authorities in particular. That is why I insist that the communication around this decree be effective so that these swings are removed from the playgrounds.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u51	Minister, consumers often face problems when trying to use the two-year legal guarantee as part of an internet purchase. By press, you indicated that the rules governing the warranty for purchases in stores should also apply when buying online. Online guarantees cannot therefore be limited. In this respect, you have made it clear that an adaptation of the European rules for online shopping is being drawn up. In this context, I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you give us more information about this adaptation? Is a European e-shopping regulation being drafted? In the absence of written legal clarifications, what will consumers who shop online be able to rely on to invoke the legal guarantee of two years in the event of a dispute? How do you intend to amend the Consumer Goods Guarantees Act of 1 September 2004 in order to incorporate the guarantee applicable to online purchases, pending full adaptation? Can consumers who shop online also be granted a complementary, free or paid guarantee? Thank you in advance for the answers you will provide to my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u52	As part of the Digital Single Market Strategy, the European Commission has indicated its intention to deal separately with online purchases with regard to guarantee rules. There is no concrete text yet. The proposal is scheduled for the end of 2015. I think the truth will be "early 2016". There's only a few weeks left. I am not in favour of such a separate treatment. The same guarantee rules must apply to all consumer goods, regardless of how they are sold. This uniformity is in the interests of consumers and businesses. All sales of consumer goods, whether on-line or in a physical store, are covered by the two-year legal guarantee, as provided for in the European Directive. There is therefore no need to adapt the legislation with regard to the commercial guarantee offered by an undertaking. There are no obstacles to it being worth it for online sales as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u53	If I have understood correctly, the guarantee is aligned online with that of other purchases, without nuanced by what the European Commission will propose, which obviously solves a number of problems, since everything is under the same regime. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u54	Madam President, Minister, since the beginning of the year there has been a significant increase in appropriations from 20 to 28 per cent over the previous year. This increase relates, in part, to renovation credits since VAT will rise from 6% to 21% in January next year for the renovation of goods under five years of age. This increase relates, on the other hand, to the pointless credits to cope, for example, with the expenses of the re-entry. This type of credit pays cash, 13% per year. The Action Overindebtedness Group (GAS) is sounding the alarm. The trend in the number of defaulting borrowers is worrying, particularly in the province of Luxembourg, where there has been a 20% increase in the number of defaulting borrowers over seven years. GAS mediators meet with many families who are in debt to eat or pay for tuition or health care. So that's very worrying. In his experience, precarised families are, more than others, the target of unscrupulous sellers who sell consumer goods and, at the same time, credits without knowing their clients' ability to repay. There is no liability of creditors who can always solicit their clients in debt mediation through advertisements. Minister, the situation is worrying and I see no action taken by the government. Shouldn't there be a broad reflection on the prevention of over-indebtedness in schools? Shouldn't there be a stronger regulation of temperament sales to hold creditors accountable and put a ceiling on interest rates for consumer credit?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u55	Madam President, Mrs Lalieux, first of all, it must be stressed that the legislation is sufficient to punish any lender or intermediary of credit who would not behave honestly and professionally in the context of advertising the granting of a consumer credit. Before the conclusion of the credit agreement, the lender must carry out the assessment of the consumer's solvency and verify that he will be able to comply with his repayment obligations, by consulting the Centrale des crédits aux particuliers. In addition, those who knowingly conclude a credit agreement are criminally punished and must reasonably be of the opinion that the consumer will not be able to comply with the obligations arising therefrom. If you are aware of lenders who do not meet these conditions, you can forward the names of the lenders to the FPS Economic Inspectorate Branch for a useful follow-up. At my request, the Economic Inspectorate will develop a proactive policy in this area and the SPF Economy will establish economic rules that will guide their daily practices for lenders and credit mediators. Financial education for schools is an essential way to provide young people with the training they will need when they are adults.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u56	This reflection is therefore to be carried out with the Community Ministers in charge of Education in order to carry out this educational work in partnership with the FSMA and the SPF Economy. A pilot project, called Inspiratiedag financiële vorming, was launched in Flanders to support financial education in classrooms. It took place on 26 October in the Flemish Parliament. As regards the interest rate ceiling, the lender is, in principle, free to fix the interest rate and charges. However, this freedom is limited by the existence, depending on the type of credit and its amount, of maximum rates.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u57	Minister, thank you for your answer. I'm not gonna report the lenders. Moreover, I do not go to their homes to finance the purchase of consumer goods. However, you know that it is mainly the disadvantaged families who use it. They do not know their rights and often do not read contracts. That is why education really matters. In any case, I wanted to hear from you about a proactive policy on the part of the FPS Economy. Consumer credit defaults are reported every year. It's good to have rules of conduct. I hope they will then be turned into laws. Indeed, they are very rarely respected in certain circles. As far as education is concerned, I hope that the project in Flanders will be successful. It is essential that FSMA work with federated entities on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u58	Question No 7289 by Mrs Renate Hufkens is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u59	Mr President, Minister, the NGO Oceana has recently published an up-to-date investigation into fraud concerning fish served in restaurants in Brussels. According to this survey, one in three fish served is not the fish advertised on the restaurant's map. At a time when the ocean and what it provides in terms of food must be respected and well managed, where certain species are at risk and where overexploitation causes pollution, over-medication of fish, and a more than poor quality of some fish, these frauds seem to me to be particularly dangerous. For example, the Pangasius of the Mekong Delta, which is in total overexploitation, is often presented as cod or sole, exotic tuna as bluefin tuna. This is what the survey showed from DNA tests conducted by the environmental body in collaboration with the Catholic University of Leuven, showing that almost 32% of the fish examined in the Belgian capital were mislabelled! In addition to fraud as such on what is served, the price difference between the advertised and the actually served fish is also a deception in itself. The price difference can reach 40%! Minister, the NGO does not investigate the link in the failing distribution chain that allows this kind of fraud. Will the SPF, in collaboration with the AFSCA, conduct an investigation in turn to sanction the previous link in the chain? Is it not important to extend the obligation to inform about the dishes offered with a fish labelling system? Overexploitation affects almost 50% of North Atlantic stocks and more than 90% of Mediterranean stocks. I believe that labelling is essential for raising consumer awareness and controlling operators. As a result of the investigation, the various competent bodies, the AFSCA and the SPF Economy, turned the ball over. It seems to me that the issue is important enough not to play a skill war. Minister, are you going to seize the relevant services and ask for further investigation and strengthened controls? Are you going to take a legislative initiative to force traders to display the type of fish and not just announce the chef's fish?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u60	Ms Lalieux, between 2012 and 2015, the Economic Inspectorate carried out 534 checks in restaurants concerning compliance with economic regulations in general. So far, in the absence of complaints, controls to check whether consumers receive the type of fish or meat indicated on the menu were virtually non-existent. It goes without saying, however, that in the event of a complaint, the Economic Inspectorate will not fail to intervene and seek the person or persons responsible for the deception or fraud. Apart from restaurants, the Economic Inspectorate regularly carries out checks on compliance with labelling obligations, as laid down in European regulations. Of all investigations conducted in 2014 concerning compliance with information obligations, 16% led to a warning and 1% was prosecuted. The deficiencies found were of a different nature, such as incomplete information or lack of clarity on the subject, but were not necessarily indicative of product composition fraud. During the 2014 control campaign specifically focused on the detection of equine meat in beef, DNA analyses, for example, did not detect any problematic cases in 103 studies. DNA analysis in the fish trade found that 2 out of 100 cases were not in order. Following the publication of the Oceana survey, the Economic Inspectorate immediately requested that the report of the survey be submitted. However, the information obtained is still insufficient. We hope to be able to gather more useful information after an interview with the CEO of Oceana, which is taking place this afternoon. After an in-depth analysis of all the information and taking into account the positive results of this recent commercial fish DNA analysis, the Inspectorate will define a strategy to carry out controls as effectively as possible. The FPS Economy and the AFSCA have concluded a collaborative protocol. Monitoring services meet regularly to exchange operational information and align their respective strategies. FPS Finance will participate in some of these meetings. On this occasion, food fraud will certainly be discussed. For further information on the AFSCA controls, I refer you to the competent minister, Mr Willy Borsus, the minister responsible for this agency. As far as labelling is concerned, I should like to inform you that the European regulation provides, on an optional basis, for labelling systems for fish sold as such in stores. It does not seem appropriate to extend this system to the dishes offered in restaurants and to make it compulsory, especially since other instruments already exist to combat the overexploitation of fish stocks at the level of the fishery itself. The European Regulation prohibits unfair consumer information practices. It cannot be misled, in particular about the nature, identity, quality, composition, durability and origin of what it consumes in a restaurant. Thus, when a specific species of fish is announced in one dish, it is indeed misleading to replace it with another when preparing. In addition, when the restaurant offers the chef's dish of the day or fish, the consumer has the right to ask for more information about the specific species of fish that will compose his plate and thus make conscious choices.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u61	Minister, thank you for your full answer. In this case, it is not only an NGO but an NGO accompanied by a university. Also, I imagine that the Catholic University of Leuven knows what it does when it performs DNA tests. So we are in a very large-scale fraud in Brussels restaurants with unfair practices, because whoever sells sole does not know how to sell it at the price of a fish that will be fished in Vietnam or elsewhere. So these are unfair practices. In many countries, fish labelling is commonplace. I will make a motion for a resolution to that effect, because it is important in the field of public health for every consumer to know what fish he eats and not to be lied to him through false advertising which must be violently punished. In fact, restaurants that comply with the legislation have much higher prices. This is the problem with regard to the quality of restaurants, otherwise the quality will decrease in restaurants. The Inspectorate must take up this problem with arms-to-body by exercising numerous controls and severely sanctioning these restaurants. At the environmental level, it is important to protect endangered fish species. The information must be real and correct in relation to what we find on our plate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u62	Minister, I will not start again by saying that you know my passion for home copy, but reprographing is of course part of that. The European Court of Justice has also delivered an interesting ruling. In the Reprobel versus HP judgment, Belgium receives a ban on the legislative framework for reproduction. This is contrary to the European Copyright Directive of 2001. The Court contends that the flat-rate compensation laid down in Belgian law does not comply with that requirement. In Belgium there is an amount of a flat-rate part which is determined solely on the basis of the speed of the device. The Court does not accept this and does not consider it a valid criterion. A better distinction must therefore be made there, including in the field of public versus private use, with or without commercial purpose, when making copies. In addition, according to the Court, such a combined system should provide for reimbursement mechanisms in order to avoid overcompensation, such as in the discussion on home copying of audiovisual works and music. In addition, there are a number of problems related to the fact that the amount of compensation varies according to the person concerned's contribution to the collection of the levy and the fact that part of the compensation is wrongly granted to the publishers. That is not in the directive, but it is in our law. In addition, there is the undifferentiated nature, as I said. There is also a particular problem. After all, the European directive does not allow copies of sheet music to be made, but our law apparently does. With this we take away a right of authors, which we should not really take away. Of course, I expect you to bring Belgian legislation into line with the European directive. You have already announced this in your policy paper and after this ruling by the Court. I would have liked to know from you how far the preparations have progressed, what changes you are planning, what basis you are going to introduce and what exact timing you are aiming at. What would be the consequences for those who have paid the Reprobel tax in recent years and for those who have received it, on the basis of false criteria?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u63	Mr Dedecker, I do not know all your passions, but some of them are becoming clear to me now. I suspect Reprobel is one of them. Of course, the ruling of the Court of Justice will be taken into account when developing a new system. At the same time, the new system must be simple in its application. A number of political choices will also have to be made in this context. The interested parties will be consulted. I think it is too early to comment on the precise changes, the basis that will be introduced and the exact timing for them. Such a change in the system will in any event be discussed within the Council of Ministers. As regards the consequences for those who have paid the Reprobel tax in recent years and for those who receive it, I can refer to the follow-up to the procedure. Following the judgment of the Court of Justice, the case will return to the referring court, in this case the Brussels Court of Appeal, which, with the clarifications made by the Court of Justice on the interpretation of the provisions of Directive 2001/29, will rule in the proceedings pending before it. Cases are also pending before Belgian courts between other parties and Reprobel. It is up to the judiciary to rule on the possible recovery of certain reproduction fees brought before it. Mr Dedecker, you have already understood that I am very well aware of this problem and also of the possible consequences. We will try to resolve this in a very good way, with the procedure, the contacts and the consultations I have informed you of. We can discuss this at length when it is cleared up. Hopefully you'll say you're gonna drop one passion after all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that you are not yet fully able to lift the veil and the number of tips of the veil that you can light up is apparently also limited. I share your view that it is extremely important to move to a simple, workable system. This must be given absolute priority. We must not create new barnyards with all kinds of administrative burdens. We would like to emphasise this very strongly. This applies both to the authors and to the many SMEs in our country who have to fill out declarations on all kinds of matters, of which the Reprobel declaration is one. I believe that we must ensure that we minimise the administrative burden on our SMEs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u65	Mr Minister, opening a bank account in Belgium is not always easy, not only in Belgium, but in other EU countries too, if one is not a resident of the country concerned. According to the information I received, opening a bank account for a self-employed person or an employee resident in another EU country is not evident. A while ago, in the Committee on Social Affairs and in the plenary, we adopted a proposal from Mr Vercamer which reverses the principle of cash and non-cash payments. Where it was previously possible to pay cash, the principle was now entered in the Pay Protection Act that cash payments are no longer permitted unless the sector concerned concludes a collective agreement allowing it or there is a use in that sector, which is then formalised. We have a problem here, if it is not or very difficult for some foreign entrepreneurs or employees to open an account, then we can come into conflict with that obligation. Are you aware that it is still difficult for some self-employed and non-Belgian workers to open a bank account in Belgium? What's your opinion on that? Are you planning a consultation with the financial sector on this? Are you planning specific actions, or are you seeing actions that can be undertaken in certain sectors, which naturally go against the reasoning we have included in Mr Vercamer's proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u66	Mr Lachaert, we have contacted Febelfin as a result of your question. What is surprising, but perhaps you have other information, was the answer that Febelfin currently has no concrete evidence that there would be particular problems for self-employed or employees of other Member States when opening a bank account in Belgium. You may have other information, but Febelfin believes there are no obvious problems. Payment service providers, including banks, should conduct customer investigations under money laundering and terrorism legislation when opening an account for a new client relationship. This control must, of course, be carried out in a non-discriminatory manner. Where the opening of the account is accompanied by significant cash deposits or is used exclusively for cash operations, or where the amounts of the transactions are disproportionate to the revenue normally generated by the profession which the person concerned may have declared to exercise, the opening of the account may require more time. Febelfin says these are very exceptional situations. Secondly, we are dealing with European legislation which must be strictly respected and which is crucial in the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism. In short, Mr Lachaert, I would like to deal with the problems further if there are problems, but Febelfin says that there are no serious problems in this area. Either Febelfin does not know enough about these problems, and then you have to look at how I can get them, or there are no problems, and then the question is whether I should deal with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u67	Thank you, Minister, for informing us at Febelfin. That's a normal reaction of yours. I will look into this further, because there are some examples that I am familiar with. I suggest I contact my sources again. Perhaps there is also consultation with Febelfin before we ask you to take action. I'll make further enquiries. If action is still needed, we can discuss it further.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u68	Minister, we find ourselves without fighters, but we are not at war. Ms. Lalieux thought there were three questions left by Mr. de Lamotte, but he left us by turning his questions into written questions. Ms. Lalieux has two more questions. She's coming. Questions Nos 7468, 7477, 7706, 7526, 7557, 7570, 7602, 7644, 7645, 7647, 7759, 7768 and 7773 fall and we come to Question No 7783 by Mr Dedecker.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u69	Mr President, Minister, let me be clear: my passion is not so much copyright but our SMEs, which I want to avoid as much as possible. You may have already understood that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u70	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u71	Rest assured, I have many other and more enjoyable passions; don't worry about them. I'm going back to copyright. Another readingable judgment of the European Court of Justice, I seem to be doing nothing more than reading judgments today, concerning the judgment of 19 November 2015 in the case of SBS against SABAM. The question was asked as to what should be understood by a public service delegation communication, as set out in Article 3 of Directive 2001/29. In concrete terms, the question arose about the technique of direct injection. That's the most common technique used to get television from broadcasting to living room. It goes through distributors: the signal is delivered directly to the distributors via a private line, on which they distribute the signal to the public. The Court gave SBS largely the same view. Previously, the Antwerp Court of Appeal had also made the same ruling. It is very interesting to note that, once again, the Court refers explicitly to the basis of the said Directive: "Member States shall provide for the exclusive right of authors to communicate their works (...) to the public in a place and time which they individually choose, to be accessible, authorised or prohibited. However, in our copyright, which should implement the directive, there is the legal licence for fair remuneration. As a result, authors and artists cannot oppose the public communication of a work which has been lawfully made public, Article XI.190 of the Code of Economic Law provides. In this sense, it is also possible to understand fair remuneration for related rights. Since authors or artists cannot oppose the notice, they cannot allow it, nor can they negotiate it themselves, it is the government that sets the prices for the legal license through fair remuneration. Of course, this has consequences for the use of music at events, in public places, in shops and with entrepreneurs, as you know my passion. Hence my question, Minister, is the Belgian legislation compatible with Directive 2001/29 following the judgment of 19 November?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Dedecker, as you all know, music and films are subject to several rights, namely copyright for the composer and the author of the text for the music or for the film, copyright for the screenwriter, the editor, the author of the text and the graphic designer of animation works, and the related rights of performers and producers of the music or audiovisual works. When playing music or film for an audience, a distinction must be made between the different rights. Prior authorisation must be sought from authors on the basis of their exclusive right, Article XI.165 of the Economic Law Code and Article 3 of Directive 2001/29. This exclusive right includes inter alia the interactive provision to the public. The performers and producers should not be asked for prior authorisation because, in accordance with the copyright law, it cannot be prevented from playing the music or the film in public. In return, the right holders are entitled to a so-called fair remuneration which is necessarily managed collectively by PlayRight and Simim. In the judgment in SBS Belgium v SABAM, the Court of Justice clarifies the scope of the exclusive right of authors, which is Article 3.1 of the Directive. That judgment does not refer to the legal licence of the so-called fair remuneration. The fair remuneration for playing music is regulated by another directive, namely Article 8 of Directive 2006/115. The legal licence already in force in this context in the 1994 Law appears to be fully in line with Directive 2006/115. I therefore assume that the judgment does not affect the conformity of our regulations with the European directive on the exclusive rights of authors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u73	That's right, Minister. I have indeed made a mistake by confusing neighbouring law and copyright, for which I apologise. That might happen more.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u74	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, there is an increasing number of false opinions on websites. These are notices that do not follow the purchase of a service or property, but are intended either to harm a business or to lease its quality in an illegitimate manner (the example of a company that rents its own services via the Internet). In both cases, this undermines the good information of consumers. This can also harm a company. According to our information, some cases have had catastrophic consequences. The problem is already important in the United States. Trials have taken place. In Belgium, the situation is less serious but nevertheless exists. In France, a rate of 45 % of biased opinions was reported. A law is in the process of being passed in order to counter the trend, be it disguised advertising or malice. One Internet user was fined 2,500 euros for posting a false comment. Moreover, this is a complex problem since the Internet has no borders. Minister, is your administration aware of any complaints about this issue? Is there a position at European level? Are solutions envisaged at Belgian level?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u75	Mr President, Mrs Lalieux, the Economic Inspectorate's services have confirmed to me that they have not received any complaints regarding false opinions on the Internet. At European level, the problem of comment platforms is discussed as part of the revision of the guidelines for the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive. Once these guidelines have been finalised, the supervisory bodies will be able to act in a more uniform and concerted way at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u76	Minister, thank you. I imagine you are then waiting for the European directive. Do you know if a timing is planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u77	As soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u78	I know that you do not determine the European agenda. In the meantime, I guess you're not going to take any initiative at the Belgian level. We will be paying attention to the European directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u79	Mr Minister, the press has relayed practices, although legal, which nevertheless raise questions. The premium to sellers in large areas and chains is not prohibited. However, many of these end up selling according to their interest, not according to the client's interest, a fortiori when their basic salary is modest and they have to make a certain number to be able to live decently. This results in many perverse effects. Investigations conducted by journalists even show that, in some cases, regardless of the customer's profile, the seller will give him exactly the same product - which has only one advantage: to pay him a high premium. Minister, in my view, we could ban sales premiums. Nevertheless, I am aware that means terms are necessary. Should this system not therefore be more strictly regulated and different premiums should not be granted according to the product? That would obviously be much simpler. What about the information available to your administration on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u80	Mr. Chairman, Ms. Lalieux, the award of bonuses to their employees by companies is a widespread practice and is not limited to those who are part of the sales team. This does not mean that staff can, at any cost, sell products that are most profitable to them. On the contrary, the company remains criminally liable for compliance with the rules in terms of consumer protection. I am particularly interested in the rules on pre-contractual information and unfair practices. In other words, it will have to ensure that its staff acts properly towards the client so that the client can form a well-founded choice. I realize that it is not obvious to show in practice that the seller has led the consumer to make a particular purchase because of a more interesting selling premium. Unfortunately, I fear that a provision regulating in detail the management of conflicts of interest in the granting of variable commissions will be considered to be in breach of European trade standards. This directive is of the maximalist type. The SPF Economy informed me that it did not have any specific information on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u81	Minister, thank you for your answers. The system is actually biased from the start. From the moment that, depending on the brands you sell, you have a high premium, it is normal for sellers to try to have more at the end of the month because they don't have high wages. The fact that an identical premium for everyone is prohibited on the basis of freedom of trade and freedom of competition, I would like to believe it, but I will check at European level. Thereafter, the burden of proof for the client is still very difficult. And the same goes for the Economic Inspectorate, except for mystery shopping, but I don't think we can do it in those cases. It is very complicated to fight against this system. I think you should launch a major consumer protection information campaign so that they know where to complain and under what conditions. Many surveys are carried out in parallel and consumers often do not know their fundamental rights to avoid tragedies such as over-indebtedness. That's a good conclusion, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic293x.u82	I support your initiative. And I will say, Minister, a beautiful day on consumer protection and another day on the status of close caregivers. Then it'll be perfect.
