ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u1	Madam President, Minister, one of the most important tasks of the BFSA is to inform consumers about food safety correctly and quickly. It is therefore very important that the consumer is aware of the existence of the BFSA, its functioning and its tasks. A 2013 satisfaction survey showed that 88 percent of consumers knew the BFSA, of which 54 percent only by name. A third of the participants were familiar with both the tasks and the functioning of the BFSA. For professionals, knowledge is better: 69 percent of them were familiar with the role and functioning of the BFSA. The survey noted that the consumer does not know the BFSA through social media. However, this is a very important forum. Social media can no longer be ignored today. Almost everyone's on Twitter or Facebook. Another striking result that emerged was the limited awareness of the BFSA hotline. This is an important point, because if there are food problems, the hotline is the first place consumers can go. Only 8% of respondents knew that the hotline existed, while 54% would use it if they knew it existed. So that is a big difference and a big problem. Only 25% of professionals know the hotline. Minister, I would have liked to ask you the following questions in the context of this survey. What are the social media's positions within the BFSA's communication strategy? Do you expect an increase in the use of social media within the strategy? If so, how will it be achieved? What is the current budget for the BFSA's communication? How much of this is earmarked for social media, how much per cent for the maintenance of the website and how much per cent for the publication of brochures and newsletters? What is the point of contact within the communication strategy? What budget is reserved for the hotline? What actions will you take to make that hotline known? Will you provide an extra budget for this better announcement?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u2	Madam President, Ms Hufkens, the social media, currently Facebook and Twitter, are one of the many channels used by the BFSA in its communication with consumers, including the consumer website, brochures and flyers and the presence at events. All product recalls and all press releases and communications relevant to consumers will be posted on the consumer website. They are also distributed via Facebook and Twitter. For 2015, it is planned to further develop social media communication and to disseminate the two-week consumer information via the same social media. The communication budget for 2015 is 560 398 euros. Six full-time equivalents ensure the maintenance of the website, including the management of Facebook and Twitter, the preparation and graphic design of flyers, newsletters and brochures. The use of Facebook and Twitter is of course free. Its management is currently carried out by several communication service staff. Our communication campaign provides for a budget of EUR 30 000 to further promote the use of social media. No specific breakdown is made by budgets for social media, the website and the publication of brochures and newsletters. The budgets are allocated according to the needs and always taking into account the savings imposed. Since the creation of the BFSA, the hotline has been a low-threshold point for the consumer, where he can use his questions and complaints regarding food safety. This will remain the same in the future. No specific breakdown shall be made for the reporting point in the communication budget. The budgets are allocated according to the needs. The hotline is managed by three full-time equivalents. The hotline is promoted on the website, at fairs and events, through promotional material, in our quarterly newsletter for consumers and through social media. In the two-week consumer information on social media, the hotline will also be promoted each time. A special action will also be taken in 2015 to increase awareness of the Consumer hotline. As has already been said, the budgets are allocated according to the needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u3	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. The budgets are allocated according to the needs. The hotline needs to be made more public, so I think that's where the need lies. I am pleased that there will be a specific action in 2015 to announce the hotline. Do you have any idea of a timing and how it will work?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u4	Not yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u5	Madam President, Minister, one out of seven social inclusion income (RIS) is provided to a student, an assistance that the CPAS allocates to people who do not have any other income. In ten years, the number of students benefiting from RIS has increased by more than 200%. Many students have to face up to the cost of their studies themselves because parents do not support them, either out of will or because of lack of resources. This is an additional concern for young people who should instead devote themselves fully to the success of their studies. Minister, is this increase due to the fact that students are better aware of their rights than before? Or are there really more students in precarious situations? Why do these students have to turn to CPAS for help? Don't their parents support them? Are they in a precarious situation from a family perspective? Does RIS allow these students to cover the costs of their studies? Can they still receive scholarships?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u6	Madam President, Mrs Cassart, the number of students receiving CPAS assistance is increasing. In the first eight months of 2014, the latest figures available, an 8 per cent increase in the number of students receiving social integration income was observed, compared with 4.1 per cent for all beneficiaries, almost double. The proportion of students receiving social integration income is increasing sharply. While they accounted for only 5.9% of all beneficiaries in 2003, they accounted for 12.8% of beneficiaries in 2014. It is in the smaller municipalities that the rate of students receiving the highest income from social integration is observed in 2014. However, this statistic must be tempered and nuanced. For students, throughout the uninterrupted duration of their studies, the CPAS of the student's home is territorially competent at the time of the first application for an individualised social integration project. In December 2011, the SPP Social Integration commissioned a study on students. You can still find this search report on my administration's website. According to this study, the increase in the number of students is due to several factors: - the fragility or instability of the young person's family situation and numerous breakdowns in the family fabric or network; - the precarious socio-economic situation of parents; - the accumulated school delay or uncertainty in the labour market, which bring young people back to school and encourage them to return to school. With regard to the lack of support of their parents, article 4 § 3 of the Law of 26 May 2002 on the right to social integration allows CPAS to impose on the person concerned his or her rights in respect of debtors of food, including his or her parents. The CPAS may even act in its own right in the name and in favour of the person concerned. Article 47 of the same Act, for its part, allows the total or partial recovery of the aid granted to parents according to a scale scale. However, this recovery remains marginal. In the majority of cases (62 to 75 per cent of cases), either the income of the parents is too low to support their child or they are themselves social beneficiaries. Another reason (12-17 per cent of cases) is the absence of any contact between parents and the student; for example, due to long-term conflict, residence abroad of the parent(s), or, of course, death. With regard to scholarships awarded by the Communities, Article 22(1) of the Royal Decree of 11 July 2002 on general regulations on social integration rights provides for exemption from the income of the person concerned. Scholarships are therefore exempt from the income qualification for the person concerned. Education allowances also cover living expenses and not just specific education costs. This is why a differentiation was made in this case between a scholarship student and a non-student. However, this difference in treatment is offset by the fact that a scholarship student receives, unlike a non-student, additional resources to cover his/her living expenses in addition to his/her integration income.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u7	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. I understand that there are different findings that you have explained: the percentage, the rate of increase, rather in some municipalities than others. There are different reasons. The study explains some things. It would also be interesting to try to find solutions to this problem. On the other hand, the fact that young people can study when they are in a precarious situation is obviously win-win, because it is an investment for the future. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u8	Debates of the European Parliament 3187 by Mrs Dedry will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 3360 by Mrs Van Peel will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u9	Mr Blanchart is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u10	Minister, a few weeks ago a question was asked here about the import of puppies and the mandatory vaccination against rabies at the age of 12 weeks. You said in your reply that you, like our neighbouring countries, do not intend to deviate from that basic rule, which means that puppies can only be imported into our country at the age of 15 weeks. It is reported that many puppies, grown by private individuals and hobby growers in our country, are sold under 15 weeks to the Netherlands, France and Germany. How is the control procedure for imports and exports carried out by professional growers, hobby growers and individuals? How many auditors of the BFSA have been appointed for this purpose? How many checks were carried out in 2015? How many growers weren't okay? In what way can you better monitor and enforce compliance in the future, without distinguishing between professional growers, hobby growers or private individuals? What reasons do you think could lead to a derogation in the future, for example, limited to our neighbouring countries? Why is it that the argument of the important socialization period of dogs between their eighth and twelfth weeks is not sufficient?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u11	The BFSA shall carry out its control in accordance with its competence with regard to animal health. The purpose of the checks is to check compliance with the requirements of European legislation on rabies vaccination. The trade in dogs itself is governed by the Law of 14 August 1986, which has been under the jurisdiction of the Regions since 1 July 2014. The share of imports and exports of dogs with third countries is small. It is mainly the non-commercial import and export of dogs by their owners. Commercial imports shall be subject to systematic checks at the border inspection post of the BFSA. Control of intra-Community trade is based on the certification of consignments. The competent authority of the Member State from which the animals leave shall verify compliance with the veterinary conditions and issue a health certificate, which shall be sent together with the consignment and which shall arrive at the authorities of the Member State of destination via the TRRACES, TRAD Control and Expert System. The check is therefore carried out systematically at the departure. At arrival, veterinary checks shall be carried out on a random basis and in a non-discriminatory manner. Complaints are systematically followed up. For individuals, the BFSA asks the authorised veterinarians to inform the Agency when an irregularity is detected in relation to the vaccination against rabies for animals entering the Belgian territory, which is always subject to a check by the BFSA. I'll give you a few more figures. From 1 January 2015 until 31 March 2015, dogs from 11 intra-Community trade movements were controlled. Irregularities were detected for 4 of these movements. On the basis of reports from veterinarians, 41 surveys were carried out in dog owners. In all cases, irregularities, e.g. too young puppies or not validly vaccinated, were identified by the BFSA. For the purpose of intra-Community certification of trade to the other Member States, the BFSA issued 67 certificates after verification. 58 checks were carried out at the three border inspection posts where commercial imports were authorised. Two consignments of private individuals were refused. The BFSA does not appoint inspectors or inspectors to control only the import of dogs. Of the 126 inspectors eligible for such checks, one or more inspectors and/or inspectors shall be designated according to their availability, location and expertise. I would remind you that the control of dog farms and the conditions for their marketing are a matter for the regions. In the case of international trade, the abovementioned control measures are supplemented by targeted control measures. For individuals, the BFSA organises targeted awareness campaigns on rabies and the restriction of the illegal introduction of animals. Good cooperation with veterinarians is necessary for the detection of illegal introductions. A reporting obligation for veterinarians of any non-compliance, including from countries free of rabies, is a possible path to better enforce and monitor compliance with the rules. Belgium, like the European Commission, is of the opinion that limiting the risk of the introduction of rabies and thus the safeguarding of public health is a priority for the commercial interests of breeders and traders of puppies. The European Commission does not allow any derogation from the 15-week socialisation period for certain countries. Belgium should not distinguish between countries with and without a rabies-free status. I also asked my administration to examine the extent to which an exception could be granted for the very special category of assistance dogs. Consultations are under way with the sector. However, in the light of European legislation, room for manoeuvre seems very limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply with a lot of figures. I am pleased to hear that checks are being carried out. If I understand correctly, a lot of checks are being carried out on the professionals. There are only sensitisation actions in the private sector. I think we should consider whether more controls should be carried out there. I also welcome the fact that you are considering the possibilities of obtaining a derogation for accompanying dogs. That is indeed a very important aspect. I will read your answer very carefully, because it contains a lot of information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u13	Mevrouw de voorzitter, Minister, the WHO International Centre for Cancer Research (IARC) has challenged five organophosphorous pesticides that have been classified as probable or possible carcinogens. These include: glyphosate herbicide and malathion and diazinon insecticides, which have been classified in group 2A as "probably carcinogenic to humans" and tetrachlorinphos and parathion insecticides, which have been classified in group 2B as "may be carcinogenic to humans". The latter two are banned from use in Europe. Malathion, diazinon and glyphosate are mainly used in agriculture. They are found in air, water and food. It is also found in the gardens as well as in the forests. In addition, the general population living near the treated areas is more exposed. Glyphosate is the herbicide with the largest volume production in the world. For the moment, IARC is talking about "limited evidence" in humans concerning non-Hodgkin's lymphomas, blood cancers. There is also talk of risk of prostate cancer for malathion and lung cancer for diazinon. Minister, have the FPS Public Health and the Cancer Foundation ever given an opinion on this issue? Is there a need for further research into the likely danger of these pesticides? As some experts point out, is there a need for additional measures to protect consumers and pesticide users from the risk of cancer?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u14	Dear colleague, your questions are in line with those which Mrs Dedry also wished to address me. I have consolidated some elements of the answer. I have also taken up the various elements that fall within my competence. Your questions, which were addressed to my colleague Mrs De Block, have been forwarded to me since plant protection products fall within the competence of my department. I'm in charge of agriculture and food chain security. Before answering your specific questions, know that following the publication of this disturbing report, I immediately requested a detailed analysis from my administration. This analysis should include possible proposals to modify the conditions for authorisation of the products concerned on the Belgian market. It goes without saying that I am in favour of in-depth research into the danger of certain plant protection products, bearing in mind the precautionary principle which must guide our decisions. I would also like to point out that, in addition to these federal powers relating to the evaluation and marketing authorisation of plant protection products, the Regions are also competent for their use. There is therefore a second area of political action, since the Regions can take measures limiting the use of a particular product. With regard to the current situation, the FPS Public Health department responsible for the authorisation of plant protection products has given only an interim opinion, as the full IARC report has not yet been published. This provisional opinion shows that, of these five substances, only glyphosate is still authorised as a pesticide in Belgium. This also reflects the extensive risk assessment that has been carried out both at European level and at our level – which I welcome with you. According to European regulations, pesticides need to be re-evaluated periodically. In this context, a further review of glyphosate at European level is under way. The provisional results of this re-evaluation demonstrate a safe use of this product. A final conclusion from experts from the European Union and the European Health Authority – EFSA – is expected this autumn. In their provisional opinion on the IARC report, the experts from our administration examined the references in the above-mentioned article. It appears that the studies referred to by the IARC are already part of a much larger set of studies which have been taken into account by the European Union. In addition, other international assessments contradict this classification of glyphosate as a carcinogen. The conclusion of IARC is therefore surprising since it is not confirmed by existing assessments of the carcinogenic properties of glyphosate. For the time being - I would stress this point - it is therefore not justified to take additional measures to protect consumers or users of plant protection products from the risk of cancer. However, I would like to point out that, as with all pesticides, preventive and protective measures, as well as the maximum doses defined in the conditions of use of glyphosate, should be carefully monitored. With regard to the example of the Netherlands, it should be noted that no prohibition has yet been imposed on the use of glyphosate by individuals. It is true that the Second Chamber of the Netherlands has requested such a ban. But I asked my Dutch colleague who told me that his government had not yet dealt with this issue. Based on the results of the in-depth analysis of the IARC report and the results of the re-evaluation of glyphosate at European level, I will consider limiting the use of this herbicide in Belgium if this proves to be justified or sufficiently justified from a scientific point of view. I would now like to say a few words about diazinon and malathion insecticides. These are no longer allowed in Belgium. Diazinon has even been banned at European level. The question here is whether glyphosate actually has carcinogenic properties. The results of the scientific assessments under way at Belgian and European level will enable us to answer this question definitively. When I am in their possession, I will not fail to return to you. On the other hand, I would like to draw your attention briefly to two lines of European legislation which provide that "any plant protection product likely to be carcinogenic must be prohibited, unless exposure is negligible. For potentially carcinogenic phytopharmaceutical products, a risk assessment must prove that safe use is possible." Measure the shade between "probably" and "potentially".
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u15	Minister, thank you for these very specific and comprehensive answers to my question. I am also very sensitive to the fact that you felt concerned about this extremely important issue for human health.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u16	Minister, the slaughter of horses for human consumption has long been no exception in Belgium. This process is carried out through a balanced and transparent framework. However, many horses remain outside that framework and are not suitable for human consumption. These are, for example, sick or old horses. Until today, there is no explicit channel to give these animals a meaningful destination even after their death. Unlike in the past, horse meat is now only used limitedly in animal feed. These are mainly imported horse meat, which is intended for this purpose. If a legal framework were to be created, Belgian horses, sick horses, for example, could also be used if they no longer meet the requirements for human consumption. Thus, a legal framework for the slaughter of horses for animal consumption would not only generate additional income for the horse owners, but could also reduce the number of cases of horse neglect. I have the following questions. What legal framework is currently in place to slaughter horses completely for pet food? It is not by-products or offal, but actually meat for animal feed. What is your view on the use of horse meat as pet food? In recent years, its popularity has declined. Will you take any further steps to stimulate it? Are incentives appropriate to encourage pet food companies to use Belgian horses instead of imported horse meat? What steps will you take to achieve this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u17	The use of animal by-products intended for purposes other than human consumption is regulated by the European Regulation 1069/2009. Horses slaughtered in a slaughterhouse for human consumption may be used in pet food. Those horses, or parts of them, can then be processed as Category 3, animal by-products in pet food. On the other hand, horses which, according to their passports and status, are excluded from the food chain and are not intended for slaughter for human consumption can no longer be slaughtered in a slaughterhouse. Those horses, or parts of them, can no longer be processed in pet food because they are considered Category 2 material under the abovementioned European Regulation. Therefore, this strict European rule does not allow horses that do not meet the requirements for human consumption to enter the food or feed chain. Because it is a European regulation, it is inconceivable to draft a Belgian legislation which would be contrary to that provision. However, I would not oppose a debate on this at European level and the consideration of specific alternative solutions for pet food, albeit with important guarantees for human and animal health.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. The debate can be held at European level. We will therefore certainly include and look at the dossier at that level. I have taken on board your views, in particular that you are not opposed in principle, as long as the safety of the food chain is guaranteed. That's an important signal. Hopefully we will be able to raise the matter further at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u19	For question No. 3506 we have not heard from Mrs Winckel, which means that her question is considered to be withdrawn and will lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u20	Madam President, Minister, a while ago, the hotel school Spermalie in Bruges was the first to receive a smiley face from the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain. This quality label comes after a thorough implementation of an auto-control system for food safety and hygiene standards. The hotel school is clearly a trigger in this matter and therefore rightly sees its efforts rewarded. It is very nice that the hotel school got a smiley face, but what surprises me is that this federal quality label was not awarded by a federal minister, but by Flemish Minister of Education Hilde Crevits. For the N-VA many things can be transferred to the Flemish level, so as far as I am concerned also the BFSA. Minister, I would like to hear your views on this matter. How do you explain the absence of a member of the federal government to hand out the smiley face? I imagine you or someone couldn't be here, but why didn't they send a replacement? How do you explain the award of that quality label by a Flemish minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u21	Madam President, Mrs Hufkens, allow me first and foremost to correct a number of things. The smiley face is not awarded by the BFSA, but by the certification bodies responsible for the validation of the car control systems. In the case of the hotel school Spermalie, the smiley face was awarded on 26 August 2014. The school then took the initiative to put this in the spotlight with a press moment and a ceremony to give that press moment some listening. The BFSA was invited by the school, as was the Flemish Minister responsible for Education, the certification institution that delivered the smiley and of course a number of other guests. For the BFSA this was one of the many moments to promote the smiley face. It was also a time to raise awareness of hotel schools, which are still training many people who will be active in the food sector in the very near future. Moreover, in the past, the BFSA has worked regularly with the educational networks to provide training. The BFSA had explicitly pointed out to the school the difference in levels of competence. This was also pointed out in the various presentations. Apparently that has not been picked up by all the members of the press present, who have sometimes turned it into an amalgam. The BFSA has already organised several events for the press, some of which together with the previous minister of custody of the BFSA. I'm assuming you don't expect the custody minister to be present at all those press releases about the smiley face. As you may know, that was not the first smiley smiley face that was awarded, not even for a community kitchen, but the first smiley face for a hotel school. I am therefore pleased that not only the federal level, represented by the delegate director, but also the Flemish Community, in this case Minister Crevits, responsible for Education, has supported the importance of obtaining a smiley face through its presence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u22	Minister, I understand very well that Minister Crevits was there. It was effective about a school. On the other hand, however, the smiley face is awarded by the BFSA. This is a federal agency that federal ministers are responsible for, including when it is awarded. I understand that you might not be here, but it would have been a good signal if a member of the federal government were present. So I find your answer a little strange. For us, there is no problem if a Flemish minister is responsible for the award, but then we have to look again at the powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u23	Minister, two months ago I asked a question on this subject in plenary. As a result of a judgment of the Council of State, the BFSA is currently working on the implementation of a system allowing consumers to quickly consult the inspection reports of catering businesses. On the basis of the b2b system, the consumer can consult an assessment at a glance. Implementation would require major efforts, including in the IT field. I understand that, too. The system is expected to enter into force by mid-2015 at the earliest. In the meantime, consumers can request detailed official reports and consult them at the BFSA headquarters. In order to do so, one must first fill out an application form, after which one receives an invitation for an appointment at the head office. As soon as he is on the spot, the interested person himself must perform his search in a database of the BFSA. This is not exactly a model of smooth service. This was also demonstrated by an article in De Standaard on 30 March last, which showed that Professor of Media Law tested the way of working and then sued the Federal Commission for access and re-use of administrative documents. Following Mr Voorhoof's complaint, the Committee recommended on 2 March that the current application procedure be effectively contrary to the Act of 11 April 1994. Both the obligation to complete the application document and the release of the inspection reports only on the spot cannot be identified by the law on the disclosure of administrative authorities. The committee decided that the inspection reports should be made public on simple written request. What is your view of the committee's opinion on the violation of the law on public access to public administration? How do you interpret the advice? What action will be taken on the opinion? Will the application procedure be adapted so that it is more transparent and compliant with the law?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u24	Mrs Hufkens, I would first of all like to distinguish between transparency and access to administrative documents. Access is only part of a policy of transparency. As far as access to administrative documents is concerned, the BFSA has established a procedure following the judgments of the Council of State which allows and organises access to the detailed inspection results. It is therefore not at all the intention of the BFSA to ignore Commission opinions and decisions on access and re-use of administrative documents or judgments of the Council of State. On 6 March 2015, the BFSA received the opinion of the Committee on 2 March 2015 in connection with Mr Voorhoof's request to review its request to receive specific inspection reports. In its opinion, the Committee considered that the question should be put without imposing administrative conditions. In its reply to the committee, the BFSA explained why its current procedure is indeed acceptable. In order for the consultation to take place in an orderly manner, a form must be completed and the number of the establishment unit must be communicated. A company may have different units of establishment and therefore the number of the establishment unit is an indispensable element in the application. In doing so, the government can count on the cooperation of the citizen. The number of the establishment unit can be searched by the applicant in the Kruispuntbank Ondernemingen or via a link on the website of the BFSA. After the applicant has completed the application form on the website, the applicant is invited to the central board of the BFSA in Brussels. Here he can look up the results himself on the basis of the number of the establishment unit and, as the law provides, obtain a copy of the requested reports. This is therefore a practical modality, taking into account the resources available to the BFSA, rather than creating unnecessary obstacles. However, the consultation of the detailed inspection reports is not the best way to create transparency. I am not convinced that the general benefit of the consumer is to wrestle through extensive technical documents, where, in order to correctly interpret them, a thorough knowledge of the legislation and of the functioning of the BFSA is needed. By the way, the inspection checklists are just part of the whole process. For this reason, the BFSA, in consultation with consumer organisations and the distribution and catering sector, has developed an alternative system based on a score system ranging from 1 to 5, where 1 means improving and 5 is excellent. I do not go into the details of the system, which anyone can consult on the website of the BFSA. You will immediately see that such a simple system is easily understandable and can also be accessed directly via the Internet. By the way, the BFSA is working on the practical implementation, with the first version available before the end of June.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u25	Minister, I know that the IT system is coming up and that it is planned for June. I'm waiting for it and I'm very curious to see what it's gonna look like. I expect it to look good. I find your statement that the consumer has no use with the technical sheets, rather scratched. If the consumer wants to see those technical sheets or get that information, then I think the consumer should have them. It's his responsibility to understand it. I think we are missing some services in this area. If the consumer has a location number, the BFSA should be able to guarantee a certain level of service which allows inspection reports to be passed on to the consumer. I am not saying that the BFSA is deliberately imposing thresholds, but those thresholds are there. This is also evident from the opinions. I think it is rather scratchy that you speak from the consumer's point of view. I think you should look at the services from the point of view of the BFSA. You may not only take into account what is easiest for the BFSA. I keep following up on the file and I'm very curious to see what the IT system will look like.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u26	Since there are some similar elements in both questions, I would ask, Mrs Gantois, as usual in this committee to add the new elements to your question so that we do not repeat ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u27	The TTIP of Transatlantic Trade Investment Partnership is a free trade agreement currently under negotiation between the EU and the United States. This agreement seeks to remove several trade barriers in order to encourage trade between the two continents. The eighth round of negotiations took place at the beginning of February and a draft of the content of the sanitary and phytosanitary measures was published already in January. Although the treaty has been negotiated so far, there are many questions about the impact that that trade agreement may have on our domestic food safety. Product standards and food safety approaches are very different in the United States from those in the European Union. For example, there is a danger that chlorine chickens may be decontaminated with chlorine before they are placed on the market in our racks. That has become a symbol of this concern. The European approach and, as a follow-up to it, also the one followed by the BFSA is one of the continuous safeguards of safety in the food chain. There is currently no harmonisation or equivalence of sanitary and phytosanitary measures between the EU and the US. Further provisions on the establishment of a joint management committee signal a shift of competence towards a European framework. Before the TTIP is completed, the European Commission is looking for disinfectants that would be acceptable. For example, disinfection with perazin has a good chance of being admitted. The Authority is currently examining whether perazine can be authorised effectively, but for many environmental organisations this treatment is already a signal that chemical disinfection of meat is likely to become possible, including chlorine disinfection. So there is a lot of concern about it. In this context, I would have liked to ask you a few questions. Are you aware of the content of the draft of the TTIP that is now on the table? What is your opinion on this? Is this opinion well expressed at European level? How will you ensure that high standards of food safety are maintained? Do you have any news from EFSA on the use of alternative disinfectants? Will perazin be admitted? What is your opinion and that of the BFSA on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u28	I will keep my question very brief because it is in line with this. It concerns the negotiations between the United States and the European Union on the Free Trade and Investment Treaty. Minister, we have a high quality in our agri-food sector. We supply very good products on a daily basis, and we also receive praise from the World Health Organisation. It remains a challenge to produce and process safe food throughout this whole agri-food chain from rick to plate. I believe that our farmers are doing well. Agriculture is also included in these negotiations. However, agriculture must not be a currency to reach an agreement. We had a trade surplus of EUR 6 billion in 2012 with the European Union towards the United States. The European Member States really attach great importance to the standards created in the fields of the environment, animal welfare and sanitary and phytosanitary standards. We must be careful not to call these standards into question by the agreements. We must also be vigilant about the current standard of our products and also about the fact that we will not face unfair competition from abroad because there is a different regulation. I think you share that view. It is important that everyone complies with the same production standards and chain monitoring is maintained. I have two questions for you. Have you heard what was actually negotiated, in order to eliminate or reduce unfair competition within the agricultural sector under the free trade agreement? My second question is in line with Mrs Hufkens' questions. Have you heard of measures already taken by the negotiations to safeguard the strict conditions of food safety within the agri-food chain?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u29	Madam President, Foreign Trade is one of the most integrated competences at European level. The European Commission makes proposals to the European Council and then negotiates on behalf of the European Union on the basis of the directives and instructions decided by the Member States within the European Council. As a reminder, I would like to mention the three steps of the negotiation process for TTIP. The first step is to give a mandate to the European Commission by the 28 Member States. The second step is the negotiations conducted by the European Commission. The third and final step is the decision taken by the governments of the 28 Member States and by the European Parliament and not by the European Commission. For each meeting of the Trade Policy Committee and for each meeting of the European Council, the Foreign Affairs Office shall organise coordination between the different levels of policy. The Belgian position on the negotiating mandate has also been the result of such coordination. The negotiating mandate was made public and a significant amount of information, like all the positions of the European Union, was published on the Commission's website. In general, the negotiating texts of the European Union, which are distributed to the Member States and to the European Parliament, will be made public. In addition, the general public is called upon to debate each round of negotiations. It is not for me to express my opinion on the whole of the TTIP, because that is not within my competence and that is not the subject of your question. On agriculture and food chain safety, on the other hand, I can give you the following information. In particular, the TTIP negotiations on agriculture and the agri-food sector are the subject of access to those markets. On the other hand, internal support for agriculture, mainly the CAP, is not part of the TTIP. The opening of agricultural markets would apply in the two directions and would benefit both the European Union and the United States. The United States wants to sell more of its basic agricultural products, such as maize and soya. The European Union's exports to the United States consist mainly of food products of higher value, such as spirits, wine and beer, and processed foods such as cheese, chocolate, hams, etc. The European Union would undoubtedly gain from increasing the sale in the United States of its high-quality food products, without useless limits related to tariffs or other factors. There are indeed several obstacles to the free market in agriculture. With regard to tariff limits, there are many tariff outliers in imports into the agri-food sector, in particular on milk and milk products in general, some sugars, tobacco, some fishery products, some fruits and vegetables and even some cereals. With regard to non-tariff barriers, some European food products, such as various cheeses and milk products, as well as apples and pears, face major obstacles which restrict their access to the US market. In addition, the United States' 1997 embargo on beef from the European Union. There is also the strict control procedure on foreign products imposed by federal agencies under the law on the fight against bioterrorism. The removal of these limits and customs duties would increase the volume of exports from the European Union to the US, but this must be done with respect for European and American standards and standards. For example, during the discussion on the negotiating mandate, the Council of the European Union decided to maintain the collective preferences, i.e. with regard to GMO, ractopamine, hormones, chemical contamination of meat and animal cloning, as well as to take account of national legislations that have sensitivities in several Member States, in particular France and Belgium. The aim of the transatlantic partnership on health and pesticides is to work together to boost food exports while protecting high European standards. For Belgium, respect for European standards and standards on health and society is fundamental to ensuring food safety at a high level and fair competition. Belgium will be vigilant in defending its agricultural interests, in particular as regards beef and derived products from beef, fruit, apples, pears and vegetables. Belgium maintains the rules that apply within the European Union, in particular maintaining the precautionary principle, recognising and respecting agricultural and food specificities, protected designations of origin, geographical indications and guaranteed traditional specificity and speciality, maintaining the existing provisions of the European Union on the use of hormones and GMO pests in livestock farming, as well as those on cloning, respecting the existing provisions of the European Union on health in relation to the processing of meat and meat products and, finally, respecting animal welfare. The issue of international trade in agricultural products was on the agenda of the European Agricultural Council of 16 March 2015. It was discussed in a conversation with my fellow officers at lunch. As a result, I reiterated the Belgian position on the draft trade agreements, namely that our production methods should not be directly or indirectly questioned by multilateral or bilateral agreements and that, in any case, we should avoid placing our producers in a position of unfair competition. As I pointed out on that occasion, it is not for me to accept the import of products obtained by methods which are not allowed in the European Union and which are not compatible with our production standards, such as chickens disinfected with chlorine or hormone meat. I also assume that agriculture cannot under any circumstances be used as a token or as a rearrangeable, variable quantity within the framework of a global agreement. I am aware that there is a great deal of fear among European citizens that TTIP will lead to a reduction in the European level of protection of food safety and health or that TTIP will jeopardise our production model. However, both the United States and the European Union have been clear: TTIP will not change the existing requirements of food safety and public health on both sides of the Atlantic. The draft agreement recognises the right of the parties to ensure risk management in line with the level of protection they consider appropriate. My position on TTIP is therefore based on the necessary maintenance of our agricultural model, in particular family-based locally anchored agriculture, the necessary maintenance of our production standards, as well as the need for those who wish and need to remain profitable, to export and add value to our farms and to our Belgian food processors, who are very well-known. I invite you to consult the European Commission's website, part of which is devoted exclusively to TTIP's design. For all questions on other subjects, or in connection with the progress of the negotiations, I suggest that you turn directly to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Reynders, who deals with the matter. As regards Mrs Hufkens' third question, EFSA has already published a number of opinions on the use of lactic acid and peroxyacids for the reduction of microbial contamination on meat. The opinion of 26 July 2011 on the application of lactic acid to beef gave rise to a European regulatory initiative in 2013. Since then, slaughterhouse operators may use lactic acid on bovine carcasses under certain conditions to reduce microbiological surface contamination. In Belgium, slaughterhouses may only apply this technique after prior application of the BFSA. The latest EFSA opinion dates from 26 March 2014 and deals with the safety and efficacy of peroxyacids for the reduction of pathogenic germs on poultry meat. To date, the European Commission has not taken any regulatory initiatives with regard to that opinion. The BFSA supports the European vision and believes that the use of contamination techniques on foods, in certain cases and under strict conditions, can provide an additional guarantee of public health. However, this cannot be regarded as a substitute for good hygiene practice and should not affect the operator's obligation to comply with all hygiene requirements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answer. We are eagerly looking forward to TTIP, because it affects many different aspects, not only agriculture and public health, but also a lot of other issues. I am pleased to hear that you have already explained to your fellow MEPs what the priorities are for us and that food safety and public health must not be compromised at all. That is a very important position that we must continue to defend. As an N-VA, we will continue to follow that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. I remember that you continue to argue that the playing field remains the same for farmers, that they will maintain their independence and not become victims, and that their income will not be compromised. I remember that you strongly argue against unfair competition and that the standard of our products must remain the same. I also remember that you negotiate with respect for each other's values and standards. Time will tell whether it is true that there will only be benefits for both negotiators. I will look up and look up the website with great pleasure and interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u32	Minister, this question concerns the development of a national system for the follow-up of food-borne diseases. The first week of the Easter holidays took place the World Health Organisation's international day, which this year is looking at diseases transmitted by food. Ensuring food safety is a core task of the BFSA. In the aftermath of the dioxin crisis, it became clear that a separate agency and a more applied approach were needed to ensure our food safety. A succession from rick to fork forced itself on us. Globalisation poses more and more challenges and food safety is no longer a purely internal issue, but a global issue that must take into account both imports and exports. Think of the e-colibacteria, which caused infections in 16 countries from Germany to Canada due to its intertwinedness in the food chain. Food-borne diseases can cause serious health problems and can eventually lead to mortality. Salmonella and campylobacter are infections that are still present in Belgium. World Health Organisation figures show that around 52 000 people died of salmonella in 2014. The measurement of these food-borne diseases is therefore very important. The WHO therefore calls for the establishment of a national monitoring system for food communicable diseases in each country. Such a follow-up system collects and analyses data on these diseases in order to ensure proper follow-up to these food health problems. Each country will have to evolve to a way of measuring is knowing. Mr Minister, my questions are as follows. Are you aware of that recommendation from the World Health Organisation? If so, what is your view on the matter? Are those readings being monitored yet? If so, by which authority? What role can the BFSA play in collecting and analysing data on food-borne diseases?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u33	Madam President, Mrs Hufkens, measuring is a fact of life. In order to optimise the monitoring and management of food-borne diseases and to better prepare for large-scale incidents, in 2014 a mandate was given by the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Public Health to set up the National Food Toxic Infection Plan Working Group. Optimisation of the BATA collection and exchange between all interested parties is an essential part of the tasks of that platform. It is therefore important that all parties continue to support the initiative. This is, of course, not enough to reduce or prevent diseases communicable by food. Since they are often due to transfer by people in contact with food, Belgium, as in the rest of Europe, is...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u34	Could it be quieter in the back of the room? We don't hear the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u35	... adopted a preventive approach to consumers and operators throughout the food chain. This can be done, inter alia, through awareness and information campaigns and through the introduction of good hygiene practices and HACCP. Such an approach is also promoted in the WHO's Five Keys to Safer Food Programme. The data on food toxitis are kept up to date in Belgium through the national food toxitis plan. The powers are spread across different bodies: the BFSA for the data relating to the monitoring of the food chain, the Scientific Institute for Public Health, which plays a coordinating role as a national reference laboratory for food toxins, the National Reference Centre for pathogens and the Community Health Inspection Services as regards the human data. The analysis of these data allows the BFSA to capture signals and thus to detect problems in the food chain early and to manage faster. These data are also used for trend analysis and as input for risk assessment by the Scientific Committee of the BFSA, but also by EFSA, WHO and FAO.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hear there's a lot going on at national level. I will take a close look at that national plan and see how it is followed up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-commissie-ic142x.u37	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Winckel's 3506 is being postponed instead of withdrawn.
