ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we begin the sitting. It is always best to start on time, especially when it comes to a joint committee meeting. I will try to get every committee and every group to be discussed and to respect a linguistic balance. That won't be easy, but I'll do my best. We shall begin with an introduction to the three representatives of the government. We start with Minister Reynders, then Minister Vandeput and finally Secretary of State Francken. They will give an introduction to which I will give the floor to the members of the committee. Mr Foreign Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will try to give some answers to the questions raised by the committee members during my introduction. The disaster that took place off the Libyan coast on the night of 18-19 April, in which more than 800 migrants died, recalled the urgency of the migration situation in the Mediterranean. While there had already been other tragedies, including that of Lampedusa in 2013, and measures had already been taken, the scale of the tragedy of 18 April highlighted the inadequacy of the response so far. In view of this, the European Union has shown a willingness to act with greater determination to prevent further tragedies. A Ministerial Council of Foreign Affairs and the Interior was held in Luxembourg on 20 April and the High Representative for Foreign Policy presented three priority areas for action endorsed at the time by the Ministers: combating trafficking in human beings, assuming our responsibilities in terms of international protection, strengthening border surveillance and increasing rescue capacity. The European Commission has also presented a ten-point action plan, which has been widely supported. This action plan also forms the basis for most of the measures which were subsequently decided upon. In the wake of this Council, an extraordinary European Council was held on 23 April. The Heads of State and Government agreed on a series of actions aimed at strengthening the Union's presence at sea and thus strengthening the rescue capabilities but also the capacity to combat traffickers more effectively, prevent illegal migration flows and strengthen solidarity and accountability within the European Union. Following this declaration by the Heads of State and Government, the Presidency of the European Commission has drawn up a roadmap to ensure the implementation of the measures identified. Two measures received special attention. This is, on the one hand, the strengthening of the Union's presence at sea. The European Council has decided to triple the budget for operations Triton and Poseidon and the Commission has presented an amending budget for 2015 and will present its proposal for 2016 by the end of this month. In parallel with this increase in the Union's financial contribution, several Member States have made additional resources available to Frontex. In particular, Belgium has decided to make its Godetia command and logistical support ship available to Operation Triton for a period of two months. On the other hand, it is the strengthening of the fight against traffickers, by means of an operation to be carried out within the framework of the common security and defence policy, the purpose of which will be to identify, capture and destroy the boats used by smugglers. With regard to this last mission, the EU High Representative, Mogherini, took part in a UN Security Council meeting on 11 May. Its intention, which I fully support, was to explain the European demand for a Security Council resolution. In her intervention, she referred to the broader framework of European migration policy and the various aspects of the roadmap. It is not an exclusive cooperative strategy, as has often been said wrongly, but a balanced set of measures, with the aim of tackling the causes and consequences of a humane tradition of migrants crossing the Mediterranean Sea at risk of their own lives, to the benefit of non-scrupulous traffickers. On 18 May, the Foreign Affairs Council adopted the crisis management concept for the EU's new maritime operation against smuggling networks in the Mediterranean. That is less than a month after the European Council. The concept of the operation consists of three phases. One: monitoring, information gathering and patrolling. Two: investigations and seizure of smugglers on the high seas and in territorial waters. Three: Identifying and destroying boats on Libyan territory. It is intended that the last two phases will be supported by a UN Security Council resolution. Several aspects in the current version of the UN resolution could still be refined to meet the wishes of certain members of the Security Council. The resolution would normally fall under Chapter VII of the UN Charter and create a mandate that would constitute an international legal basis for the operation. Although this is not strictly legally necessary, I believe that a Libyan demand for intervention is also desirable. Such a question would strengthen the legitimacy of our future actions and ensure the best possible cooperation with the authorities in Libya. The High Representative Mogherini is making further efforts in this respect, but it remains unclear to what extent the various Libyan parties want to cooperate. The international recognised Tobruk government has already appointed an envoy for a dialogue on this issue, but the Misrata Group, which also controls a large part of the coast, is still resisting. It goes without saying that this must be done in close coordination with the mediation efforts of the Special Envoy Bernardino León in Libya. At present Belgium has not yet decided on a possible participation in this specific mission. A number of legal issues remain to be resolved before the actual launch. For example, there must be a clear legal framework for the prosecution of smugglers such as those who are being picked up as part of the operation. There is also contact with NATO about the launch of the operation. They may contribute to the first phase of the operation, in particular the exchange of information. It is unlikely that they will play a prominent role. Another action envisaged under the common foreign and security policy is the strengthening of the Union's police mission in Niger. It is estimated that between 1,600 and 2,400 migrants cross the Niger-Libya border every week. The European External Action Service is currently examining a possible extension of the mandate of the EUCAP Sahel Niger mission to the prevention and restraint of irregular immigration and the fight against related crimes, passing through Nigerian territory towards Libya. In particular, it is studying the possibility of a permanent presence in Agadez, an important road node for illegal traffic of all kinds. Belgium has voted in favour of this extension and is currently participating in this mission with federal police personnel, in the head of the EUCAP mission, as well as with the staff of the Justice and Foreign Affairs FPS. In addition to the necessary immediate measures, a comprehensive strategy and structural solutions are also needed. On 13 May, the European Commission presented a migration agenda, covering short-, medium- and long-term measures. As regards the former, the Commission announces that in order to respond to the immediate situation, it will present at the end of this month a proposal for the temporary allocation, under the so-called "relocation" mechanism – transfer from another Member State – of persons clearly in need of international protection. We are open to the principle of such a mechanism, but we must obviously wait for the Commission's proposal and its concrete arrangements to reach a final decision. A relocation system also requires all Member States to fulfil their obligations and, in particular, for front-line States to register arrivals. The Commission will also make a proposal for a programme to resettle 20 000 places for refugees from a third country. Belgium, which is already making efforts in this area, unlike other Member States, supports this initiative. In addition to these immediate measures, the migration agenda also includes medium-term provisions to reduce irregular migration, better manage borders and consolidate asylum policy in terms of legal migration. These measures will be the subject of political discussion at the Justice and Home Affairs Council in June. The European Union must, of course, focus not only on the acute aspects of the migration crisis, but also on the root causes of this problem, such as economic migrants seeking better living conditions, oppressions and wars. We have already raised this point at the European Council on 23 April 2015. I also put it on the table at the European Foreign Affairs Council. President of the European Commission Juncker, Commissioner Avramopoulos and High Representative Mogherini take the matter seriously and make efforts in various areas. Also Belgium does not lag behind and does more than its share in each of the different domains. More intensive cooperation with the countries of origin and transit is also needed. The Rabat process initiated a dialogue with the countries involved in the West African migration routes and migration flows to Europe, from North, Central and West Africa. Belgium is part of the pilot committee of the Khartoum process which was launched in the same way in November 2014. The aim is to give a new impetus to interregional cooperation between the countries of origin, transit countries and the countries of destination of migrants, in particular the route between the Horn of Africa and the European Union. In autumn 2015, a summit will also be organised in Malta with key partners such as the African Union to develop a common approach with the region to combat irregular migration, the protection of persons in need and the fight against trafficking and trafficking in human beings. Belgium will also continue to work preventively by strengthening its development efforts in the countries of origin and with the transit countries. Belgium has several partner countries in the countries of origin and transit countries in North Africa, the Sahel and West Africa. On 21 May 2015, the Minister for Development Cooperation announced an adaptation of partner countries with a further concentration on the poorest and most fragile developing countries in the region. Algeria, which has important gas revenues, has fallen from that modified list. However, Guinea and Burkina Faso have joined. Belgium has already committed itself to allocating at least 50% of its development cooperation resources to the poorest and most fragile developing countries. Belgium also provides direct support to transit countries to help them manage migratory flows, such as Morocco. This is done within the framework of the recently launched EU Regional Development and Protection Programme. Since 2012, Belgium has already granted EUR 36 million of humanitarian aid to the conflict in Syria and Iraq, with an important part to support refugees in neighbouring Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey. Belgium is also an important humanitarian donor to the conflict in Mali. For further questions on development cooperation, I refer to the Minister for Development Cooperation who may be heard at another meeting of the committee. A lasting response to the migration problem obviously requires the stabilization of the regions in conflict. In this context, the stability of Libya and the formation of a government of national unity are essential elements. Belgium and the European Union fully support the process of dialogue under the aegis of the United Nations and the efforts of the United Nations Special Representative, which I mentioned earlier, Bernardino León. At the end of April, the Council presented a draft agreement to the various parties and hopes to conclude the agreement on the formation of a government of national unity before the beginning of Ramadan on 18 June. However, negotiations under the auspices of the United Nations for the formation of such a government are difficult. In March and April, several teams negotiated in Morocco, Algeria and Brussels. Special Envoy León put the outcome of these talks in a proposal and presented it to the four main parties: the House of Representatives in Tobroek, the General National Congress in Tripoli, Misrata and the independents. The agreement provides for the establishment of the House of Representatives as the only legitimate parliament, the establishment of a High Council, a government leader, two Deputy Prime Ministers and two Defence Ministers and a Council of State with an advisory role, based on the General National Congress. In addition to Libya, there are conflicts in Syria, Iraq, Mali and Somalia that all create important refugee flows. Belgium and the EU are already active in each of those countries with military, police and humanitarian resources, but the challenge is of course historic. Other countries in Africa cause a very large movement of refugees or displaced persons; we see it today in Central Africa. These themes will have to be taken into account in order to address this issue as a whole. Presidents, Madam President, this is the general introduction and an attempt to answer some of the questions raised. There are, of course, other elements related to Defence, Asylum and Migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u3	Before I give the floor to the Minister for Defence and in consultation with my two fellow Members, I propose the following: six minutes per group and each group decides how to fill in the speaking time. Either a statement of six minutes or three times two minutes, each group is free to decide on it. The order used is that of the size of the political groups, which means that I shall first give the floor to the N-VA Group. She decides how to use her time. I will go through the list for all the first speakers from each group. When we're done, I'm gonna start a second series and then I'm gonna start a third.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u4	Mr President, it would be good to have one system for such committees. There are questions that are linked to the committee meeting, and I note that questions are dealt with first in one committee and that you are now proposing a different system. I will give you that. It would be good if the committee chairmen could reach an agreement on one system.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u5	I propose that this exercise be made later and that we now follow the proposal of the three Presidents. We will take your suggestion to heart and find out. It's not easy. I am trying to get everyone to be heard as correctly and honestly as possible, starting from the size of the groups. Let us not waste time on procedural conversations, we can do that at another time. I would like to inform you that the Foreign Minister must leave us at the latest at a quarter to twelve and now give the floor to the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u6	Mr President, Mr Reynders has already said a great deal. I shall confine myself to the contribution made by the Defense Department. First and foremost, a good distinction must be made between two operations which are a bit confused today, including in the media. On the one hand, there is Operation Triton, an essentially civil operation of the EU's civil organisation Frontex. On the other hand, there is last Monday's decision on a military operation in the framework of the general measures the EU wants to take against human trafficking, in particular: EUNAVFOR. Frontex – the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the EU Member States – has been operational since 1 May 2005. It aims to coordinate external border management operations between Member States. The Triton mission has existed since 1 November 2014 and is led by the ICC (International Cooperation Center) of Frontex in Rome. The objective of this naval operation is to monitor and control migratory flows to Italy and other EU states. During its deployment, Godetia, who left last week, will remain under national command, but delegation of tasks was given to Belgian representatives in Frontex's ICC in Rome. This means that we ourselves have the command of our ship, but that the tasks assigned to the ship reach us through the Belgian representative at Frontex in Rome. I'll come to the schedule of operations. The Godetia left last week and arrived in Taranto, Italy on Friday 22 May. From 22 to 24 May there were a number of briefings and a description of the tasks. The Godetia will be active in the region from 24 May to 5 July. Patrols and a number of port visits will be carried out. From 5 to 12 July the ship will sail back towards Zeebrugge. The BNS Godetia is not allowed – this is important – to seize ships or detain suspicious persons. There is a partnership. The contributing countries of Operation Triton are Iceland, Finland, Norway, Sweden, Germany, the Netherlands, France, Spain, Ireland, Portugal, Austria, Switzerland, Romania, Poland, Lithuania and Malta. As of 23 April, there were only three high seas patrol vessels, two coastal patrol boats, two coastal boats, two aircraft and one helicopter. The Godetia brings an extra helicopter. I'll give you a few more characteristics. The Godetia has a 20-nautical-mile view through its radars, which is 36 kilometers. She can make both daytime and night fixings. There's an Alouette III with it, which will only be operationally used for medical evacuation. The maximum range of the Alouette is 40 nautical miles or 72 kilometers, with, as already mentioned, a capacité medevac. In addition, on the Godetia there is a boarding team for operations to board any smugglers or ships suspected of smugglers, but without armed resistance. There is therefore no question of armed intervention. There are additional equipment for search and rescue (liferafts, medical pleas, etc.).). There is a capacity for shipwrecked refugees ranging from 90 to 430 depending on the weather, presence or implementation of the helicopter. I can give you more details if you wish, but I think I said the most important. There is a role 1 medical capability, i.e., a general practitioner, three nurses and many first aid workers. In the army, today, almost everyone is a rescuer. There is a logistical support capability for smaller vessels and there is a possibility of towing, only in the event of an emergency and under certain technical and meteorological conditions. I would also like to comment on a possible contribution to the European Union's military operation, which was made possible by the European Union last Monday. EUNAVFOR Med will be implemented in successive phases and in accordance with the requirements of international law. The planning of the operation and the initial phase will start as soon as possible; it has in fact already started. The first phase will consist of mapping and surveillance of human trafficking and networks in the Southern Central Mediterranean. For the second and third stages of the operation, namely tracking, picking up and disrupting the means of smugglers, a UN resolution, as Mr Reynders has mentioned, or an authorisation from the Libyan authorities, will first have to be adopted. In the current phase of preparation, no concrete specific capacity of the Belgian Defence has yet been requested. We are currently examining what means we can use to support the operation. As you know, we are active with the Godetia today. We do send two officers to the planning office in Rome to see how the operation can be put together as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I personally think it is a good initiative to have a joint committee on the subject. The problem of boat refugees must be addressed through good cooperation between the Interior and Foreign Affairs, Development Cooperation and Defence. This cooperation is going well at national level. I hope that this approach will also be followed at European level. In the Committee on the Interior, we have already had an interesting exchange on 29 April 2015. The European Commission published the European Agenda on Migration on 13 March 2015. It suggests a comprehensive approach and short-, medium- and long-term measures. In the short term, four major projects attract interest. Firstly, there is the tripling of the Triton Frontex mission. Secondly, there is the operation to destroy the smugglers. Thirdly, there is the relocation system, with the distribution of certain candidate refugees in the European Union. Fourthly, there is the pilot project for the resettlement of recognised refugees now outside the European Union. On the first two points, the Frontex mission and the operation of Defence, Deputy Prime Minister Reynders and Minister Vandeput have already provided detailed explanations. With regard to the points on relocation and resettlement, I would like to call for the correct terminology to be used at all times. Relocation concerns the distribution of asylum seekers or applicants for asylum in the European Union, i.e. after they have arrived in the European Union. Resettlement is something else, that is what we are talking about in Europe of refugees who are still outside Europe, usually in refugee camps in Eastern Congo, Syria, Lebanon, Turkey and Jordan. I have noticed that the terms are easily used interchangeably, which does not benefit a constructive debate. I will therefore explain both concepts separately. First of all, the relocation. The European Commission proposes to allocate refugee candidates with a very high chance of being recognised on the basis of a distribution key among the Member States. It is therefore not about the distribution of all asylum seekers, but only about a limited number of nationalities, like Syrians and Eritreans. Economic refugees who land in Italy are therefore not affected by this distribution. For the sake of clarity, it is only Syrians and Eritreans, not economic refugees from other countries in Africa, for example. These are countries with a high degree of recognition. Unfortunately, there is no more clarity on the relocation mechanisms. Tomorrow, the European Commission will address this issue again. It is currently impossible to estimate what will emerge for Belgium. There is still no clarity at the moment. It is always interesting to talk about relocation, resettlement, international solidarity and intra-European solidarity, but dolls often do not dance until they know how many people to take in. The government is not opposed in principle to a quota system, but it can only do so if a number of strict criteria are met. For years, Belgium has had more asylum seekers than the European average, much more so, and has been making a huge effort for years. This must be taken into account. We see, for example, that the European Commission is proposing a distribution key with the following parameters: population, which accounts for 40%, GDP or the prosperity of a European country, which also weighs 40%, the number of asylum seekers in the period 2010-2014, which accounts for only 10%, and unemployment, which also weighs 10%. It should be noted that the number of asylum seekers in recent years is only 10% in the key. It seems to me more fair to attribute greater importance to this. I think that more than 10% should be charged if countries have been doing a lot for many years. However, the population parameter is strongly taken into account for 40% of the population in order to estimate the capacity of different Member States. Here too, it would be more logical to look at population density and not just at population in absolute figures. At the same time, a country such as Italy must take responsibility for solidarity. I am thinking here of systematically taking fingerprints and complying with European legislation. Tens of thousands of people cannot be delocalised over other European Member States from Italy and Greece, to say anything, while Italy and Greece, for example, still do not apply the Dublin Regulation or still do not take everyone's fingerprints. A story in which we do relocation is a story in which all other measures and rules are applied. I have seen myself in Italy that fingerprinting Syrians, Eritreans and Somalis is very difficult. They won't. Even then, it remains possible to urge a little more to do so. I agree that we are applying relocation, but that means having fingerprints taken at the external borders of Europe. Otherwise, the story doesn't add up. There is then a proposal for resettlement. The Commission proposes to resettle 20 000 refugees in two years' time, as proposed by our Prime Minister and our Foreign Minister on the European Summits a few weeks ago. There was no agreement on that at the time, now there is. It's a good proposal. It's coming from us. It's hopefully all the Member States will take part. Belgium has already made a major contribution on its own initiative and is unlikely to have to make any additional effort to comply with that proposal. So we are talking about 20 000 refugees in two years' time. The project would now be launched. Negotiations are now under way, among other things, on the budget. In the case of resettlement schemes, a piece of European budget is always provided for, and those budgets are considerable in order to ease the burden on national budgets. The discussions on Europe's contribution to resettlement are now under way. We must also wait and see what the Commission will present in concrete terms. Tomorrow will be a very important day, Mr President. The Commission's proposals will come tomorrow. If the committee meeting had taken place next week, there would have been even more input to have a debate here. So we have to wait until tomorrow. The negotiations are still under way. In the medium and long term, we want to tackle the causes: border management, a common European asylum system and a framework for legal migration. I will set out some important points in this programme. I note that the European Commission wants to pay particular attention to a return policy. When the procedure comes to an end, the person must return. Only in this way can we pursue a credible migration policy. Belgium will ensure that special attention is paid to the return component. The European Agenda on Migration also aims to focus on the development of search and rescue capacity by North African countries. That seems to me to be a very interesting slope. In itself, one may wonder why certain North African countries do not carry out a search and rescue operation and it must always be European countries that do it, while their naval ports are thousands of kilometres from the area where most boats roam. The aim is also to ensure the correct application of the existing European asylum system. We have some good directives and regulations at European level, but unfortunately there are problems in a number of Member States with their full and correct compliance. European solidarity also means, of course, that everyone abides by the commitments made. The problem of boat refugees is a very great tragedy, for which solutions are needed in the very short term, such as the important deployment of our Navy ship Godetia. Unfortunately, the problem of boat refugees is only an expression of a number of much larger global migration and other challenges that we will face in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u8	I would like to thank the Secretary of State and now give the floor to the first speaker of the N-VA Group. The PS Group, please decide which of you will speak first.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u9	Mr President, our group will divide the speaking time allocated into three parts. My colleagues Sarah Smeyers and Karolien Grosemans will speak later in this debate. Dear Excellencies, thank you for your answers to many of the questions that have been put. I would like to congratulate this government on its presence here today with three excellences. This reflects a horizontal approach that our group believes is necessary to tackle the problem of migration. We are therefore pleased that defence, migration and foreign healing are being discussed here in a session. Migration is not a single problem. The migration story has many sides, such as the economy and human rights, all of which are addressed. My second comment, ladies and gentlemen, is that the fight against migration is, of course, also the fight against symptom. We must not forget that the origin, the cause of migration, lies elsewhere in the countries of origin. To avoid people risking their lives for a crossing, the only way out is to tackle the problems in those countries of origin. Mr Minister, today we are faced with a demographic explosion in those countries of origin and an explosion in the field of migration. We hear Frontex saying 2014 is a disaster year. We are also faced with an explosion of extremism; IS is woeful. All these things together are clearly reflected in today's debate in the various fora, including at European level. I recently attended a conference of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean, where the debate on migration was very strong. We were confronted with testimony from Libya from Mrs Abulqasem. She stated that after more than 40 years of fighting against Gaddafi, the citizens there for more than four years have been in a lot of misery and need support. In any case, the questions we have to ask today, apart from the specific questions of defence and migration, are, in my view, the following. What else can Belgium do? In addition to the necessary collective European approach, can we also collectively develop more action points in Belgium? Can we do that at diplomatic level? Is there a view of improvements? What solutions are possible? Can bilateral steps be taken, for example for Libya? We know that Bernardino León was appointed as a special envoy there. We know the complexity of two governments, but can we still look for further steps here? I also mention Eritrea, where there is a fairly dictatorial regime. Are there possibilities, for example the abolition of compulsory service by increasing development aid? I shall conclude, Minister, so that I do not take up speaking time with other Members. I thank you in advance for the answers you will give later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u10	Mr Crusnière has the floor for the Group of the Party of European Socialists. The MR Group will decide who will take the floor first.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u11	Mr President, I will focus more on the Defence and External Relations component. My two colleagues will also speak for Libya and for the interior. Ministers, thank you for all these explanations. The Council held on Monday validated the organisation of an operation at sea against criminal networks and smugglers. The definitive launch of this mission, however, still requires the green light of the United Nations Security Council and the Libyan authorities. Mr Reynders quickly talked about it, but I didn't understand everything. It is only after this double endorsement that the European Union will be able to consider the real implementation of Operation Navfor Med. What position did Belgium stand at this summit, both by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and by the Minister of Defence? Does our country intend to demand a United Nations resolution and an international framework for such a mission, so that we can take part in it? How did you get back from the intervention of the European External Action Service at the United Nations on this issue? By hearing these two agreements, the Minister of Defence and his counterparts have decided to move forward with the collection and sharing of information to identify the networks of smugglers, trace their funding and identify vessels. Mr. Minister of Defence, you even want to go further. You told us you were prepared to respond to an additional request. With what budget do you intend to do it? Do you have a budget evaluation because we know the difficulties already encountered for missions outside the Defence budget? It therefore seems important to me to have an approach at this level as well. As you know, my group is calling for a comprehensive approach in the UN framework, at European level, to this issue. While it is essential to tackle networks of human traffickers, it is equally important for the European Union to play a greater role in accompaniment to countries experiencing political instability or in democratic transition. Better economic cooperation with poor countries is also to be encouraged at European level as well as more European solidarity with refugees and migrants. As you mentioned, a humanitarian and diplomatic component is essential alongside the military component. It appears that the latter is under negotiation. Do you already have any idea the timing? What could be Belgium's role? It is important that this component be implemented at the same time as the military component.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u12	Mr President, on behalf of my group, I would like to thank the excellence of the information on this issue. It is a very complex problem which has, of course, been going on for years. It is good that we are having a debate on this today. It is also good that Europe is taking this issue seriously and seeking answers. Our group has always said that we must look at this problem at European and international level. Soon Mr Lanjri will talk about the migration dimension of this issue. As far as the diplomatic side of the story and the defence side is concerned, I think it is right that we should look at this at European and international level. We also attach great importance, Ministers, to an international legal framework for a possible mission. Minister Reynders, you have spoken about seeking a UN mandate on the basis of a resolution. Do you consider it feasible in the short term for such a resolution to be tabled and adopted? Do you consider the approval of Russia and China possible? A number of reservations have already been expressed by Russia and China regarding the destruction of boats. The UN Secretary-General, Ban Ki-Moon, also expressed doubts about the destruction of those boats. Have you received positive signals about the attitude of Russia and China? Did you have any conversations about that? You have just said that an agreement by Libya is desirable, but not necessary. Your colleague from the Defence Department said that without a UN mandate, we absolutely need a question from Libya. Can you shed some light on that? Will work be done through a question from Libya if a UN mandate fails? I shall then come to a second question. Of course, most refugees come from Libya but there are many more countries of origin. How far will the mandate go for that operation? Will we confine ourselves to Libya or will it be a very broad mandate? As for the defence aspect of the mission, the Godetia is on the ground but for the time being with a civilian mission in the context of Triton and Frontex, which would last until 5 July. As soon as the real military mission, the second phase of the operation, is implemented, should additional capacity be created? Will that happen to the Godetia? After all, the Godetia would return from 5 July. Is there any thought of another Navy ship? A number of legal issues remain to be resolved. Which ones exactly are they? If refugees are fished out of the water, what will happen to them? What will happen to them once they are on board? Are they kept on board for two or three months and then returned to Libya or to the country of origin? Are they being taken care of somewhere? I believe that this is an important question. My final question is addressed to Minister Vandeput. Have we provided the necessary budgets in this respect? I assume that such a military mission will not last two or three months, but it may be a story of several months. Has the DOD provided sufficient resources for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u13	Following on from Mr. Yüksel's questions...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u14	Excuse me, obviously it is the intention to finish the speeches by group first by size. Mr Van Mechelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u15	Mr President, I will wait my turn. Normally I'm not calm in nature, but this time I will.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u16	With my apologies, but that was the deal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u17	Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would like to thank the three ministers for their explanation. However, I do not think one aspect has yet been highlighted, in particular the current role of the merchant navy in this debate. We must not forget that in the last year almost 40 000 boat refugees have been caught on merchant ships. In November 2014, a Belgian merchant ship took on board more than 700 boat refugees and saved them from a certain death. We appreciate and support the fact that Belgium, too, will assume its responsibility with the Godetia and will be present on the ground. The question is to what extent we will support the merchant industry. They are ab initio solidarity with the people who are in trouble at sea; that is by nature present, that is innate. Of course, this involves a number of safety and health hazards for the crew of these ships, which are obviously not trained to carry out such tasks. Hence my question to what extent the EU's use of its own military vessels will be sufficient to partially relieve the merchant industry, which has taken responsibility for itself over the past year? With regard to the deployment of our ship, I understand that only a non-armed boarding team is available. In the first phase, which we are now discussing, military controls will be carried out on possible boat-refugee ships. However, we must not be naive, Minister of Defence. Human smugglers are known as well-armed and with little scruples. A non-armed mandate seems to be preferable, but how will we react if, on the other hand, aggression towards our military is shown? Another question concerns the UN mandate. That is, of course, necessary in order to be able to take military action against the smugglers of human beings. What steps are being taken to bring in such a UN mandate in the short term? My final question is addressed to the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. Mr Secretary of State, you are actually critical of the key. According to you, the 40% distribution key based on the population figure should also be applied taking into account population density. Of course there is something to be said for that, especially in Belgium. You also say that the 10% criterion to take account of asylum seekers who have already been received is too little. To what extent do you believe that this can still be changed? In this case, I assume you mean that it will be adapted in favour of a Member State such as Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u18	Mr President, I would like to thank the Ministers for their presentation. Ministers, I am pleased that the European Commission has responded to the humanitarian drama events in the Mediterranean with a plan of action, but I believe that this plan lacks ambition. Belgium draws this story and is already doing a part of it, but how big is the global cake and should it not be discussed? Unfortunately, I share this view with few and I am aware of it. We also see that many Member States are opposed to the European Commission's dispersal plan. They don't want to accept their responsibilities. It is high time for all European Member States to act as part of a union, not just the lusts, but also the burden and responsibility for those common external borders. The distribution plan is a good start, but for the time being the foundation is lacking, Mr Secretary of State. In the European Commission's plan, refugees still have to apply for asylum in the country where they first stranded. In this way, the pressure on the Member States at the external borders will of course continue. We must not leave these countries to their fate. Moreover, the distribution plan applies only in crisis situations and a distribution plan alone is largely insufficient. Due to a lack of coordination and harmonisation of asylum policy at European level, we have different asylum procedures and standards of protection, depending on the Member State. To be honest, I hope that the debate on the weight of the various criteria is not an excuse to throw the whole plan into the water. I also have some questions for you. What is Belgium's position on the distribution plan for asylum seekers? Will Belgium advocate the revision of the Dublin Regulation? If not, why not? Will the government address the need for a sustainable and workable common European asylum and migration policy? Will Belgium propose to increase the resettlement quota? If not, why not? Unfortunately, the plan is not based on the need to save lives. In recent years, the European Union has spent two billion on strengthening its external borders, while it has now been sufficiently demonstrated that this policy is not working. Belgium recognizes almost all Syrian refugees, 93 %, but most Syrian refugees really do not touch here. For people seeking international protection, there is virtually no way to get to Europe legally. Yet Europe must be able to offer safe routes for people on the run. How does the government intend to avoid the humanitarian tragedies in the future? Will it organise more safe channels for asylum seekers to get to Europe and Belgium? If so, in what way? If not, why not? What is the Belgian Government's position on the UN humanitarian admission procedure, in which refugees can safely be granted temporary right of residence? A new return programme for the return of illegal migrants, coordinated by Frontex, was proposed. Since Frontex has border surveillance as a core business, we wonder how it can combine these two aspects, rescue operations and sending people back. What is your position on this, and above all, what is your position on economic migration?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u19	Members of the government, I would like to exchange views with you on what you have just said, especially in anticipation of the European decisions that will follow. I believe that we are facing a humanitarian tragedy here. It is a fact that Belgium cannot solve everything alone. However, I believe that we should ask ourselves the question in a realistic way about what we can do and whether what we are doing is sufficient. I'd like to make four points, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I want to talk about saving people at sea. Mr Francken, you have said in the media that only 7% of boat refugees are Syrians. However, a Frontex report shows that the figure would be 37%. I would like to know what is true of that now in order to get a look at the problem. After all, it is a big difference whether or not it is Syrians. In substance, our position is very clear, ladies and gentlemen: every human being at sea must be saved. This is an elementary humanitarian duty of our country and of Europe in general. Should all these people be given asylum, because they are also economic refugees? Of course the answer to that is no. It's the only way we can do it. However, it is our basic duty to save anyone who threatens to die in the Mediterranean, preferably with the help of the North African countries, as Secretary of State Francken said just now. So let's stop talking about the suction effect, because that doesn't exist. Since the end of the extensive Italian rescue operations in the Mediterranean, there have been no fewer people trying to cross the border. So there's no suction effect. In the meantime, I hope that everyone in the Chamber, including the government, is convinced of that. I have a question about the extension of Frontex. The Italian rescue operations went a long way. From the previous meeting of the Committee on the Interior, I know that there was a decision that should still be taken to allow Frontex to go beyond 30 miles, so that people can really save all over the Mediterranean. What is the state of play on this matter? My second point concerns the proposal to destroy boats. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but I think that proposal is really bullshit. I'm going to go into more detail. There's a problem anyway. After all, there is still no consensus within the UN Security Council. There is no mandate, due to the veto of Russia and perhaps also China, to do so, even if Libya does not want to do so. The only option left is an invitation from Libya. Just as we have received an invitation from Iraq to bomb with it, Libya should now invite us to destroy smugglers' boats off its coast. However, there is still no such question from Libya. If there is no mandate from the UN Security Council and no question from the Libyan Government, then the matter simply cannot continue. That might not even be so bad. After all, Ministers Reynders and Vandeput, Secretary of State Francken, explain to me what boats we would destroy there? It's about fishing boats. There are no separate boats to smuggle refugees. Are we going to destroy fishing boats massively? How are we gonna do that? Are we going on the scene? Are we going to fire missiles, use drones, from the air or from an aircraft carrier? How long are we gonna do that? Ladies and gentlemen of the government, the people will continue to come. If we destroy boats for six months, there will be fishing boats again after that six months. So it really is bullshit, in my humble opinion. We need to do this differently, in a more well-founded way. Thirdly, as regards the distribution of asylum seekers, I understand that no decision has yet been taken, Mr Secretary of State. There are countries that are obstructing Hungary, Great Britain and Spain, but how are we going to spread these people? Do I understand that there should no longer be an asylum application in the countries where these people arrive, for example in Italy? You have just said that these are people with a very high chance of recognition. This means that, if these people are to set foot on European soil, there must already be an initial assessment of the possibility of recognition. There should be an initial investigation already. I see you shaking, but that means that people are already spreading to European countries themselves before that finding is made. I am asking myself how you will do that. What is the quality of protection of asylum seekers in Europe? That's different. Will we accept that people are being treated in very bad conditions in Hungary; just to give an example? How far do we want to go? A number of questions arise. Mr Secretary of State, can Belgium do more in this respect? I think that we can certainly do more in terms of sheltering war refugees. A hundred years ago, the European continent was on fire. When it comes to people fleeing war, we must and can do more than the 550 people we are going to resettle in our country. I refer to the previous Committee on the Interior. There was talk at the time that this government would work on humanitarian visas or on temporary reception of war refugees. When it comes to temporary care, we could do a lot more. I haven't heard from you since. It was a question from CD&V and Open Vld in this Parliament a few weeks ago to work on humanitarian visas. What's the status? In the meantime, was this decided within the government or not? Finally, one final point concerning tackling the root causes. The first intervention of N-VA was to tackle the root causes. That always sounds good, but how do you reconcile that with the savings in development cooperation that this government has made? I want a clear answer to that at last. In the case of development cooperation, we will save a total of EUR 1 billion in five years. The budget for conflict prevention has fallen from EUR 17 million last year to EUR 5 million this year. We're going to do development cooperation in fewer countries. That also means saving, not exercising efficiency. While we spend EUR 10 to 15 million per month on the bombings in Iraq, my fellow Members, this government has decided to spend EUR 20 million on Syria and Iraq in two years' time. Where's the affair? It's a disproportion. There is much more money for bombing in Iraq than for resolving the humanitarian conflict. Please stop saying that we have to tackle the root causes. That's a commercial talk, if you don't prove it with deeds. Stop that hypocrisy if you do not prove in your decisions that you will effectively tackle the root causes. Until today, it doesn't.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u20	You have used up the six minutes of your group, Mr De Vriendt. Mr Dallemagne has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u21	Mr President, I thank the members of the government for coming to committee. In my speech in plenary at the end of April, I proposed that they present us with an action plan. We had drafts. I hope that we will come back to this issue in more detail. Today, the real challenge is European values, Europe's ability to assume its humanism, its history. It is to prevent that the Mediterranean Sea, the most dangerous sea in the world with thousands of deaths, is still the scene of tragedies like those we have experienced in recent weeks. We estimate that half a million people will be trying to cross this sea this year and, depending on the mortality rate in recent weeks, 10,000 people could probably lose their lives there. That is the challenge of the policy that the European Union must put in place in the future! At the outset, I regret the absence of the Minister for Development Cooperation. It's not the first time he's shining by his absence. He was never present at any of our debates, in which the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Defence, and sometimes the Minister of the Interior participated. Since the beginning of the legislature, whether it be Syria, Iraq, Libya, never the Minister for Development Cooperation has come to explain his policy, his priorities. This is very symptomatic of how the government manages this type of problem. Of course, we cannot repeat that we must first work on the causes and continue to disinvest in foreign policy, in defence and in development cooperation. We disinvest, we close embassies, we reduce the number of countries of cooperation, we do not reinvest in countries that, today, are trying to fight against fundamentalism, radicalism, for democracy, for the stability of countries, such as Tunisia. I believe that one of the priorities in the future is to ensure that people should not escape poverty, war and dictatorship. Little has been said about Eritrea, but especially about people fleeing that country. This is typically the kind of country where we should be much more active in order to prevent hundreds of thousands of Eritreans from fleeing. Our foreign policy is currently showing a major underinvestment. This is one of the problems that I would like to see a little more highlighted in an action plan. Our asylum and migration policy is not adequate in relation to the current situation. Belgium is relatively generous and open to all those who arrive at our door, but often it is those who are the strongest, the best organized, the ones who have been able to pay. We know it's a lottery, they risked their lives. Belgium, like other European countries, closes its door to those who deserve our support, protection and asylum. They are in these refugee camps; they are blocked on the other side of the Mediterranean or sometimes in Syria and Iraq. The fate of today's populations in Palmyra or Aleppo is known, to name but two examples. We will have to fundamentally review the way in which we envisage asylum policy in the future. The appeals of UNHCR, the United Nations, will need to be better responded to. We will have to pursue a policy where we are not de facto accomplices in human trafficking. Finally, our policy essentially stops at our border and does not envisage asylum when countries at war or under dictatorship leave. This is one of the fundamental elements of the reflection to be carried out. The European Commission's migration agenda is in line with this. Mr Franken, I must confess that when I heard you, I was worried about the future. All the points you have raised are points that may be discussed, but at no time have I felt the wish of a Europe attentive to the values of acceptance, humanism, the fight against war and the fight against dictatorships. At no time! You have started to crack down on the criteria of the European Commission. Why? To increase from 2.9% to 2....% capacity. What is the underlying idea? How many people are we talking about? What are these people in? You have criticized African countries. We can indeed criticize them, but we, Europe, have traditions and values. I think we must also be able to assert them, and I have not heard you say so. You said there was confusion in the terms. But you yourself have the confusion! You tell us that we cannot accommodate asylum seekers because we have too many immigrants. Immigrants are confused with asylum seekers, with people who are now in danger of death. You're the one who's got the confusion in this case. However, problems and challenges need to be put together in order to adequately address them. With regard to the military operation, as others have said, Libya's cooperation should be ensured. I would have liked to know the state of the discussions. You've talked a little bit about it, Mr. Reynders. Does Belgium intend – and I also ask the Minister of Defence – to entrust Godetia with a military mission? What would be the conditions? As far as Niger is concerned, I would have liked to know about budgets and resources. What are the objectives of our presence on the spot?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u22	I'm starting round two. I will give the non-voting members a chance at the end of the second round.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u23	Mr President, Madam President, I too would like to thank the three Ministers for their presence in committee. I would like to address myself in particular to the Secretary of State, who, quite clearly and clearly, I hope is clear to everyone, has explained the distinction between resolution, setting out in the previous committee all the efforts that Belgium will make, and relocation, which is the subject we are discussing today. As far as resolution is concerned, our efforts are clear. Mr Secretary of State, you raised it from 300 to 550 people from outside the European Union who are currently in refugee camps and will be transferred to Belgium. I assume and trust that every Member State will make its efforts in this area too. As far as relocation is concerned, it is not yet clear what the precise key for the respective four criteria will be, if it remains with those four criteria, which I am assuming. A debate on the precise distribution key is therefore pressing. I understand your position and understand that, from our point of view, it is necessary to look at that key differently. Over the past few years, we have already made efforts as a spur of the asylum crises in Belgium. After these crises, we have also increased our reception capacity to some 23 000 reception places at present. I can imagine, however, that this is equally understandable from the point of view of other Member States, that each Member State feels differently. A specific debate on this key is therefore urgently needed. I have a specific question about that. How do you view the position of Germany, among other things, to set up a separate EU Commissioner dealing specifically with the refugee problem as a result of maritime migration? What's your point of view? I myself can more or less agree with Germany's vision, because it is a problem that will not be resolved so quickly. Migration is of all times. So is migration by sea. It is therefore necessary to make very clear agreements on this issue, so that we, the Member States, agree on feasible efforts. That is what this is about. It is therefore necessary to make very clear agreements on this issue, so that we as a Member State agree on feasible efforts. You are right to insist on the understandable attitude of different Member States to make agreements and to define criteria that are feasible, in the light of European solidarity. Please also point out to Italy and countries at the external borders that they must correctly implement the current Dublin Convention on the fingerprints and registration of refugees and that the directives and regulations on the reception of asylum seekers must also be correctly respected. Other Member States are making an understandable effort to review the Dublin Convention or to provide for exceptions. That's one way of interpreting it. However, we would ask the countries at the external borders to make an effort to comply correctly with the current specific agreements and clear legislation of the Dublin Convention on Registration.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u24	The second speaker from the PS Group, Mr Blanchart, has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u25	Mr President, Ministers, thank you for your briefings. The tragedy of 19 April and its many victims gave a sad echo to the exchanges we had with the Foreign Minister on the situation in Libya. It is clear that the absolute priority for peacemaking, the rule of law and the stability of institutions in that country is more than ever the cornerstone of a long-term solution. Mr León, the UN Special Representative, undertook a mission aimed at finding a political and peaceful solution to the conflict in Libya and the spread of the Islamist scourge on the territory. What's the status of his mediation attempt? Are the parties involved close to a final agreement that could lead to a government of national unity? Can you tell us more about the progress of these negotiations? What diplomatic initiatives do you envisage in this regard? What relays do you have? Is there an extraordinary Foreign Affairs Council on this matter? What about the 3D dimension, which must also be a full and complete part of this plane?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u26	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing an extremely complex situation and all the measures that can be taken are welcome. There is always the will to be able to do more. I am a little surprised by the catastrophism put forward by our colleague Mr Dallemagne. I don't think we should exaggerate. Mr Dallemagne, you are complaining that a minister is not present. There are three government representatives in front of our commission. I think the three ministers represent the government's policy in this area and in the diversity of issues that need to be addressed. You present an image of Belgium that would welcome only the strongest, the richest, the best, etc., according to a kind of darwinism of migration. You ignore everything that our country is doing to deal with these kinds of difficulties. I would like to thank Mrs De Coninck, who from the outset has had a different look than yours, Mr Dallemagne, recognizing that Belgium is acting at European level, that it can even serve as an example to other European States. I know that nothing is ever perfect, that we are all human beings and that we would always like to do more. But presenting a catastrophic face of our policy in this area is excessive. Our country is doing a lot and, through our government and the three ministers present, it shows that it wants to do more, that it has the will to move its European partners, which is really necessary. As far as your criticism of Mr Franken is concerned, everyone hears what he wants to hear. For my part, I heard Mr Franken say that these are important concepts and concepts, and that he wants to clarify them. I found it interesting to define the differences between the levels of action. I do not share your vision at all, Mr. Dallemagne. You blamed Mr. Franken for meddling in the notions of trying to drown the fish. That's not my impression at all. Finally, I withdraw this unfortunate expression.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u27	Mr President, I would like to highlight the issue of migration, both what we should do together in international EU context and what we can and should do from our own country. Jean-Claude Juncker has developed a quota system for the relocation of asylum seekers. From a number of countries, including Britain, there has been a great deal of resistance to this. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, do you think that at European level pressure can somehow be increased so that such a quota system could be accepted? That used to work voluntarily, but now there's some pressure. Will it perhaps be necessary to move towards a partial transfer of sovereignty in this area so that that decision can be taken at European level? Do you think that's possible? Will this happen, or how can the quotas be enforced, so that the countries that are now really on the brakes are brought to justice? What would these quotas actually mean for our country on the basis of the current principles or key? Mr Secretary of State, you have some reservations about the key. The main reason for this is your fear that we should receive too many asylum seekers. How many should we absorb according to the current distribution key? Do you really think that we should make too much effort with the current distribution key? Are there any additional criteria, in addition to those agreed on the distribution key? For example, can a country propose to take care of family members? For example, if an asylum seeker has a family member in a particular Member State, will this be taken into account in relocalisation? This question also applies to other specific target groups. Are there countries that want to target certain target groups and whether or not they will? Mr Secretary of State, you also criticized the system of fingerprinting in Italy. You yourself have been on the spot and you have found that although Italy is taking fingerprints, it is very difficult to do so. Our country also supports asylum applications on the ground there. To what extent do we do this and with how many staff? What more could we do from Belgium than the efforts we are already making? Is there anything to blame for Italy or not? I thought I read that you had come back to your criticism and that you still believe that Italy is doing what needs to be done. Today, however, I am once again hearing slight criticism of the fact that fingerprints are not taken from every asylum seeker. I also have a question about the resettlement of refugees from the refugee camps. Last year it was decided that we would record 300. That number was increased by 250. Are we going to stick to 550 or are we going to be able to increase this number? The CD&V group indicated a month ago that this number could increase as far as we are concerned. I think we are doing well in our country, but we certainly are not among the best in the class either. If I include the figures on the number of asylum applications in Europe, I see nine other countries that are performing better than our country. We are per 1 000 inhabitants in the period 2010-2014 with 8.3 asylum applications, but a top country like Sweden has received 24.4 asylum applications. Malta, Luxembourg and Switzerland are also much higher with about 12 to 13 applications per 1 000 inhabitants. I do not think we should always reflect on those countries that do less than we do. I agree with you that these other countries must also shoulder their responsibilities, but we must also note that there are countries that are doing a lot more than we are doing. Finally, I would also like to ask the question of the possibility of issuing humanitarian visas as is happening in Germany. Germany does that for 5 000 people. However, it gets fewer asylum applications. We discussed this in committee, and you were not entirely unneged. It was in one of your policy notes that you wanted to examine that possibility. I would like to stress once again that we certainly do not advocate the introduction of a new system. Our current legislation already allows humanitarian visas to be granted to refugees from war zones, so that they can be received here with relatives. That does not need to be applied massively. Now, however, there are poignant examples of families whose sons are recognized here as asylum seekers and yet they are unable, for example, to let their mother come from Syria. After all, an adult cannot just enter the country unless we use the existing European framework and our own legislation to deal with humanitarian visas. You have the full support of our group there, as well as of the Open Group, as Mrs Gabriels advocated in committee a month ago. I know you're not averse to it yourself. My question is, what is the state of play? So far there have been a number of specific questions, especially to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister would like some answers. At 11:40, I'll give him the floor. Are there any other fellow Members who have questions for the Foreign Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u29	Mr President, I thank the three Ministers for their presence, although I regret the absence of the Minister for Development Cooperation. I'll explain it to myself. We expect from the government a comprehensive response to a human tragedy on a continent close to us. All three of you are a step in the right direction. However, it would be wise to have a general plan for the government as a whole. First and foremost, we must address the root causes of this human tragedy in Africa. In this respect, the role of cooperation is as essential as that of external relations. What's happening there is of unnamed gravity. We are talking about tens of thousands of Africans who throw themselves on the roads and then try to reach a better continent where peace reigns. People do not leave their country out of envy, but because of constraints. It is war for some, it is political oppression for others, it is at last simply misery that condemns entire populations. No one takes a boat at the risk of his life. To do so requires deep reasons. That is why I regret that, in your presentations, you have not shown enough empathy towards Africa and the tragedies that exist in several countries. Yes, Mr. Reynders! It is for these reasons that these people throw themselves on the roads and want to reach Europe. We hear too much both the European Commission and some members of the government talking only about securing Europe's borders. I think these answers are too weak. You mentioned, and I thank you, the stabilization work in Libya. You have enlightened us in this regard. These are interesting leads on which we would like to hear more – not just about a country, but about several regions that are experiencing difficult situations. Secondly, the answer given by the European Commission seems extremely weak and very timid. Twenty thousand Africans will be welcomed by our continent for two years. It is very little in the light of the tragedy that their countries are experiencing. I would like to join my colleagues, Messrs. From Vriendt and Dallemagne. With regard to these aspects, where is our humanity, where are European values? How can we present ourselves as friends of Africans by providing so little humanitarian aid? Mr Franken, you are asking questions about criteria and parameters. I can understand that. But, within your majority, Mrs Lanjri is giving you an answer today. She explains that Sweden is three times more per capita, just like Malta. And you come to question these criteria! Instead, introduce to us objectified elements and avoid confusion. Mr. Dallemagne is right. You put immigrants and political refugees in the same basket; that is not fair, because these are completely different issues. In any case, I hope that Belgium will play its part in helping political refugees because Africans really need them. I have only one question to ask; it concerns the timetable. Is there any idea of the timetable for reception which could be organised at both Belgian and European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u30	Mr President, I think it is a very interesting exercise with the three excellences here and I hope that this will be repeated after the European Commission has decided on this, so that we can certainly continue the debate in this form. First of all, the European Union has not kept its promise. At that time, internal borders were opened, with the condition that the external borders would be monitored. That didn't happen. It is the lax approach to this illegal wave of immigration to Europe that has given the impression that it is worthwhile to cross the border. There's definitely a suction effect. I would have liked to see a completely different plan of action based on the Australian example. It may not be kind to say that illegality is not rewarded, but it is humane: since 2013 this approach has been implemented with rigour and since then there have been no drowned refugees. Dramas like last month are not the result of this approach. The European Union now wants to impose quotas to distribute the refugees, Juncker's distribution plan. Unfortunately, that is a wrong approach. Mrs Lanjri referred to it: Britain is not in favour of it. I can very well follow the Minister of the Interior where he says that such an approach will only encourage criminal gangs to continue their evil trade. Such an approach will only encourage more people to risk their lives. My question goes in the completely opposite direction of Mrs Lanjri. In view of the resistance of the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Hungary, not only Great Britain, but also of the serious doubts that France and Spain have about quotas, and which consider the plan unrealistic and unfair, is my question how certain it is that quotas will be introduced? Don't let that sovereignty go to Europe at all! We must be able to decide who enters our borders under what conditions, and the European Union must not do that for us. Can we still stop that plan? What are the chances that, with all the resistance from many Member States in Europe, the distribution plan and quotas will come about? I am told that we are not opposed to the distribution of these quotas in principle, but we attach importance to the parameters in the distribution key. However, I very much regret that we have not resisted ourselves. At present, the percentages are fixed, at 2.91 % for this country, but we do not yet have any idea of the numbers. I would have liked an answer to the question whether there is any indication of this. Mr Reynders, what will happen to those countries that do not want to cooperate? They've been talking about destroying the boats. You may be surprised, but I fully agree with Mr De Vriendt that this will not help. Libya alone has a coast of 1 700 kilometres, it is not because they are going to try to destroy the boats that there will be no more lousy boats, that is pure symptom control and a cloth for bleeding. Libya has already said, together with other countries, that it does not want to cooperate. Mr Foreign Minister, for those countries that do not want to cooperate to tackle the smugglers who leave them, will there be something against development aid and cooperation with those countries, so that we have a stick behind the door to force them to cooperate?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u31	Mr President, firstly, it is useful to have a United Nations resolution and/or a question from Libya. We prefer a Security Council resolution and a question from Libya, and we have advocated it at European level. However, that is not necessary, either is enough, but it would be more efficient with an agreement in both areas. So far, there have been many contacts, but it is a matter of weeks before a possible resolution is forthcoming. Last week I had contact here in Brussels with my Russian colleague Sergei Lavrov. Together with the Prime Minister and some of my fellow Members, I will be in contact with Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon in Brussels on Thursday. So we are trying to do more and more. In relation to Libya itself, a number of meetings of the European Commission have been organised in Brussels on a new government, but that too will be a matter of weeks. Bernardino León, the Special Envoy, hopes to have an agreement before 18 June, which is the beginning of Ramadan. We are trying to do more in this area. Secondly, in relation to the destruction of the boats, I will give you some examples. They're old boats that need to be destroyed. A very large number of these boats are not even seaworthy anymore. The boats must therefore be struck first and then destroyed. That is logical, and it was also the reasoning behind OperationAtalanta off the coast of Somalia. That has already been said and will be decided at the first joint meeting with my colleague from the Interior in Luxembourg a few weeks ago in April. It's normal to do it like this. This is only possible in a second or third phase, with the agreement of the Security Council and/or Libya. Thirdly, I am not going to try to convince on Belgium's ambition. I hear excessive comments about the fact that we are doing nothing and that we are practically lagging behind on everything. That's not what we're told!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u32	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u33	Read what you said! You said we had no foreign policy or cooperation policy. Excuse me, I'm still hearing what you're saying! If you will allow me to respond, I am simply telling you what we are doing in terms of cooperation and international action. This morning, with my colleague from Cooperation, we had the opportunity to meet Mr Peter Maurer, head of the International Red Cross. It was useful for the Minister of Cooperation to chair the meetings of the donor group for the International Red Cross in Brussels. We have been chairing the support group for some time now and we are finishing this presidency. We made the move to come to three. You can always ask for four ministers. If you wish, we could come with the full government but, in principle, when a minister speaks on behalf of the government, he or she will speak for the entire government. Here we come to do it on three. I have taken the trouble of giving you a number of concrete elements on what cooperation is doing. Mr President, I am prepared to hold a joint meeting one day. It would be new to me because under the previous legislature...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u34	That's incorrect!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u35	Mr Dallemagne, remind me when I had the opportunity to come with Mr Dallemagne's predecessors. From Croo!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u36	You did it about Syria.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u37	Once!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u38	It was the habit of the previous government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u39	We're talking about migration here. We have not done so on this subject. I'm just saying that we didn't do it at any time under the previous legislature in this way, called out loud and clear today. The Minister for Cooperation is ready to answer you on all the issues raised. In terms of ambition, we are trying to organise a number of things in Brussels. The International Red Cross is present and we are trying to strengthen the support of all donors. Meetings are being held concerning the Central African Republic and I have had the opportunity to see several African colleagues. I will meet the President of the Central African Republic tomorrow. As I said, the Secretary-General will be here on Thursday. This may seem like a detail. We don't have much foreign policy, I understand that! Excuse me, I think we're doing a lot of things to try to solve a lot of problems! With regard to the Migration component, the Secretary of State will be able to go into more detail. For my part, I would like to say that we immediately agreed on an additional effort. In addition, we have gone beyond that, together with my colleague Jan Jambon, we have asked to double the effort that was proposed when we were in Luxembourg. The reception of 5,000 refugees had been considered. We proposed the figure of 10,000. Since then, the efforts announced have taken into account our request, since a total of 20,000 refugees are proposed over the two years. Mr Kir, we are facing a debate to see how to convince other partners. I went to the Foreign Affairs Council. France, Mr Valls, has publicly opposed quotas. I had a long debate with Mr. Harlem Désir in an attempt to find solutions. Our diplomacy is in contact with French diplomacy to try to overcome the obstacle so that the French government accepts, perhaps in other forms. The word "quotas", which is used in the media, has never been used in the proposals. The Commission will make a proposal which will not be mandatory. It may take the step, if necessary, if this recommendation is not implemented. It is true that we must convince several partners. I can understand that there are hesitations about the extent of our efforts. I can tell you that when I look at the part Belgium takes in military operations such as the coalition in Iraq, in humanitarian efforts on the ground, or in welcoming, we are entitled to be proud of our country's action and ambition. You can always imagine being able to do much more. I'm just saying that when we are compared to other actors, we can legitimately be proud of what our country is doing. We will continue these efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u40	Are there any fellow Members who wish to respond to the Foreign Minister's speech?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u41	Mr President, I will be very brief, out of respect for the Minister's agenda. Minister, you cannot deny that when you say that we must tackle the root causes, this is contrary to what our country is doing effectively. With regard to development cooperation and conflict prevention, you do not maintain our level. You don't raise it, you don't retain it, you reduce it! In 2015 you will save on each of those domains of root causes. You're doing less than last year. That is an immense paradox! It is a bit surreal that you say, in reply to the comments of me and my fellow Members, that the Secretary-General of the International Red Cross is still in Brussels and that you are consulting with them. Mr. Secretary, stop hypocrisy! You call for us to tackle the root causes, but you reduce efforts. So you really don't have the right to say that. It sounds good, but you won't.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u42	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs, we have been talking in this Parliament for a long time. Previously, I was in the majority and I had the same kind of comments. I'm not used to varying, whether I'm in the opposition or in the majority. I know that when I put my finger on some embarrassing things, you're used to caricature your interlocutor. No! I did not say that Belgium was doing nothing. No! I didn't say that they weren't generous when people came to our borders. I am simply saying that we will have to change completely – as Mr Juncker and others also say – the way in which we conduct migration policies and asylum policies. It's a matter of common sense! I would also remind Mr Miller that, last year, 700,000 people applied for asylum in Europe. Just under half received asylum, or 300,000 people. Today, however, for 20,000 people who are in danger of death, we cannot agree. This is the absurdity of the system today! That is what will have to be corrected tomorrow, Mr. Miller. For the rest, Mr Reynders, I confirm that, under the previous government, we used to meet, in particular, Mr Labille, then Minister for Development Cooperation, when we had this kind of debate on foreign policy issues. I note that we have never had the pleasure of hearing from the Minister for Cooperation under this government. Today, he had an excellent excuse. I simply ask that in the future we can better take this into account. I can only repeat what my colleague has said. Belgium is deinvesting in its diplomatic and defence arrangements. What minister did he say here in parliament a few months ago: "With a budget like this, we go straight into the wall!" He's the minister here. The Minister for Development Cooperation has seen his resources cut by EUR 1 billion. We've grown from 18 to 14 countries. We do not have the level of ambition we had previously. That is a simple observation, Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs. We have closed our various embassies. Every time, there are good reasons. We have closed our embassies in a number of countries that are experiencing extremely serious unrest today. That is what we will have to try to see again tomorrow. How can we act both politically, cooperatively and in defence to avoid the tragedies we are experiencing today? It's not a caricature. This is a clear, clear observation that is made, I think, by other personalities in political groups other than my own.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u43	Mr President, Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, thank you for the answers you have given. I haven't heard Mr. Franken yet. Mr President, I shall confine myself to saying that, had Mr De Croo been there, he might have been able to provide some answers in relation to the African countries concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u44	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for having provided these points of answer. As far as I am concerned, I can only put it falsely as to Mr Dallemagne's arguments. He is trying, on the basis of a general position and problem, to point out our government's policy by saying that it does nothing. However, the ministers have just demonstrated that our country is doing what it has to do and that the government's will is to try to go further, including through European arrangements and the Security Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u45	Mr President, I would like to thank the Ministers and the Secretary of State for their detailed explanations. I will confine my speech to the Defense hatch. In view of the efforts that are being made in all areas, it is once again a matter of urgency, and I would like to echo the comments made by Mr De Vriendt and Mr Kir O'Keeffe, which are particularly important in the military field. First and foremost, I do not doubt our military or the work they will do. With their input and their work during the previous actions and missions, they acted professionally and always showed the necessary empathy. However, I very much wonder how dealing with the problem of boat refugees can be a military task. I will say it with a self-written proverb: let us hope that we will not only help the goldfish by sending only sharks. Minister, you explained the first phase of the mission, which runs until 5 July. You talked about patrols, port visits and a number of capabilities that could be useful for the mission. However, it is not clear to me where the task is. Does the assignment include confiscating and boarding boats? If so, what exactly does one do with it? How do we deal with the refugees? Where are they being taken? My second concern is this. The date of 18 June has already been mentioned. I have many more doubts about the link with a possible UN resolution and/or Libya's question. I agree with what Mr De Vriendt said. He asked how one will determine which boats have the capacity to transport refugees. As far as I know, there is no shipyard anywhere in the world where boats for refugees are built. So if we are not 100% sure that this is a boat with which potential refugees will be transported, how do we deal with it? Is the boat seized, boarded or destroyed and based on what parameters? Each boat is, to my knowledge, a fishing boat, a recreational craft, so much will not be there anymore, or a boat to trade. So destroying the boats would actually only be bread robberies for the owners. How will one distinguish between the use by smugglers and the use for other purposes? Finally, there may not be a comprehensive solution to this problem. Perhaps Mr Kir's speech is the most striking one. With Defence alone, we will not be able to offer a solution, far from it. The question even arises as to whether these interventions will not simply transfer the flow of refugees to another area. After all, smugglers are smart enough to know that they can and must move around and that they have to go through new routes. We must not forget that refugees do not come naturally and that they do not pose the problem. The causes are the problem and these causes need to be addressed. As has already been said, these people are fleeing for real reasons, so we need to address the causes in those countries, in Africa and in the Middle East. My supplementary question is therefore what, in addition to all the initiatives that have already been proposed, the government is suggesting to do on the ground on development cooperation and on taking prevention initiatives to reduce the flow of refugees?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u46	Mr President, I have a first question for Minister Vandeput. As he has already given a very comprehensive answer, I shall cut down on my questions. A first question concerns the UN Security mandate. Our group believes that this is very important, because without this mandate, there can be no tougher approach and only operations in international waters can be possible. I have clearly noticed that most groups are very impatient. Action is, of course, urgent. Every day there's too much. I therefore hope that this resolution can be adopted very quickly. What exactly will be the content of that? How far can we go in this? In the light of this, like a number of other fellow Members, I am also curious about the attitude of China and Russia. Will they remain negative or can diplomacy lead to a breakthrough? Minister, how do you feel about that? I am also curious about the attitude of the United States because it is the first time that we have put such a large-scale European action on the table. Have the United States responded to our approach to this operation? Finally, I have a specific question for Secretary of State Francken, who has already replied extensively, for which I thank him. Mr Secretary of State, you made a remark about search and rescue and said that only Europe is sticking its neck out. Did I get that correctly? What is the attitude of the Mediterranean countries, such as Tunisia and Morocco, where there are stable governments? I assume they will also respond to crisis situations and save lives and participate in search and rescue. What is the role of Saudi Arabia, which has the highest defence expenditure in the world, when I think of the financial problems we have with Defence, I would almost become jealous and less than 100 kilometres from the Syrian border. I assume there are refugee camps there and rescue operations are taking place. Does Saudi Arabia also contribute to search and rescue? It may have been said harshly, but if that is not the case, we are currently organising a European ferry service for asylum seekers. That cannot be the intention at all. So I'd like to get some clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u47	Mr President, much has already been said, so I will be brief. I have two more points. Firstly, I agree with my fellow Members who have serious doubts about fishing boats, not only for political reasons, but also for a mandate, will Libya give its consent? It is also important for the Commission to take account of the fact that it is not only the Member States but also the Member I assume that if we have that mandate, we will not destroy the boats that are in port, because that would be bread robberies for fishermen. I also assume that we will not destroy the boats when there are refugees on them, because that cannot be the intention. When one looks at the modus operandi of the smugglers, it is true that the boats leave empty in the evening or at night after which people with inflatable boats are taken. This means, in practice, that the moment when military intervention is possible is so limited and difficult that it is naive to think that this is the way to deal with the problem. We fish through the boats the smugglers of human beings. I have not heard today that we would target the smugglers where it hurts them the most, especially with regard to the money. This is a million-dollar business. The millions that are made of this money are not put in their stockings by the smugglers, but are put in the financial circuit with attempts at money laundering. A lot of that money ends up in tax havens. Just as Al Capone was scorned at the time through the money instead of the police, I ask that our government examine the financial slopes on the European cenacles where we meet. Can we not expose the money that is made by this? Fish the smugglers' money instead of the boats. A second point concerns the root cause. We know that there are two flows, the flow from Syria and Iraq and the flow from Africa. I have also heard that those on the boats would be 90% Africans. There are other figures and it is good that this is cleared up. Actually, those two streams have a lot in common. The push factors are the war in Iraq and Syria, on the one hand, and the particularly unsafe situation in some countries in Sub-Saharan Africa, where there are dictatorships and where people are persecuted, on the other. That's a common source. What we must try, but this is extremely difficult, is to stop political instability as a result of war or dictatorships. That's not easy. There is also the other one, and I think the biggest push factor, when we look at the numbers, namely poverty, unemployment, hopelessness in those North African countries. Even if political instability is removed, we can say that there will be a doubling of the population in the region of the Middle East, North Africa and Sub-Saharan Africa by 2050. The pressure to come to Europe will therefore remain. One can try to build a Fortress Europe, with I do not know how many defensive belts, but one will never be able to stop that current. If the root causes are to be tackled, economic and social development must be achieved in that region. Of course, the Belgian stock exchange is too small to do so alone. But we can do more. Of course, there are some countries in that region that, as has been said, are on a huge pile of money. Instead of investing these petrodollars, in search of a high return, in the West, they would be better invested in that region. To sum up, if we want a solution in the long term, we need an international effort such as the Marshall Plan for that region. That will not be possible from today to tomorrow, but it needs to be started now. If we do not, we will have even bigger problems in 2020, 2030, 2040 than we do now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u48	Mr President, I have only been able to put my questions to Minister Reynders. I think I have enough time left to add three specific things that have not yet been addressed. Firstly, what I am missing throughout the debate is that there is no demand for the organisation of reception in the region. We know that this is much more efficient. We know in particular that the poor refugees, who are now staying at home because they cannot pay the expensive smugglers or because they are old and sick, can also be helped. We know that the boat refugees are mostly economic refugees. They are now being helped in the first instance. I was just talking about the suction effect. During the whole debate, I miss the organisation of proper care in the region. Secondly, as Secretary of State Francken rightly pointed out in the debate on fingerprints, it is a total story, otherwise it will not work. That has always been the major problem in the European Union: the agreements that go with it are either not made or not followed. My question is why no mandatory conditions are imposed? Why is there no suspension of the Schengen agreements? Why not re-establish targeted border controls? You yourself raised the issue of illegal influx through Greece and Italy. Targeted border controls are needed to stop them. I would have liked an answer to that question too. Finally, Mr President, my final question has not yet been addressed either. Secretary of State Francken has just mentioned how tough fingerprinting is going to be. However, the potential terrorist threat that comes with these many refugees is completely lacking in the European plan of action. There's no mention of it. However, the Italian and Libyan security services have warned that the so-called dormant cells of terrorist organisations are coming along with that flow of refugees. I would have liked to have an answer to my question as to whether we will at least address this problem and provide an answer to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u49	Are there any Members who have a question for the ministers? [[No, no, ……]] In that case, I would first like to give the floor to the Minister of Defence, followed by the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u50	Mr President, when I look at everything, I think I have received three kinds of questions. Firstly, there were questions about Frontex with regard to NAVFOR Med. I mentioned it at the beginning. I do not know whether it is not understood or whether I am not clear enough or whether people do not want to understand it. However, there is a substantial difference from the intervention that the Godetia is doing today in the framework of the civil operation Frontex Triton. The question is whether this is a task for the military. I refer in reply to my first comment in the media on a possible broadcast of the Godetia, in which I mentioned that this is a humanitarian task carried out by military means. I have also made it very clear what the Godetia can and cannot do. The crew can board, but not go into armed conflict. Does this mean we're not armed in case we're attacked? No, of course we are armed. Mr Van Mechelen, if I am not mistaken, but this is going to be very detailed, the Godetia has a Dot.50 rifle. It also has other weapons on board. Of course, when they go into surgery, our military have their personal protection and personal defence weapons. However, they are not intended to be used. With regard to people who may be taken on board, the international agreements made apply. They cannot be returned to Libya or anywhere else. That is impossible, international law is not allowed. The European agreements on this matter are respected. As part of the operation, we are allowed to land those people in Italy, but others would understand that taking people on board internationally means giving asylum. In this case, we should not continue to sail around with it, but in the framework of Frontex and Mission Triton we put them ashore. So far, the mission of the Godetia and the civilian operation Triton of Frontex. There were many questions and concerns and, above all, philosophies about a possible contribution by Belgium to NAVFOR in the future. Mr Crusnière, I am glad that you are again worried about my budget. It's very important a budget, I know that! But I'm very happy that you, in particular, were worried about it. I want to make it clear once again where that operation is today. Last Monday, on 18 May, an operation was made possible by the European Union. Mrs Mogherini has been given a mandate to try to create at the UN, within the framework of Chapter VII, a resolution enabling an operation to be carried out in three stages. Perhaps it is also important for me to say the following about the military operation for those who attach importance to it: of course the use of military personnel is fishable. However, the military effort represents only a small fraction of the overall approach that the European Union envisages in the fight against trafficking in human beings across the Mediterranean. In particular, the aim of the EU NAVFOR is to expose the smuggling networks and to put them aside with the resources needed to do so. That's basically what it's all about. As Minister of Defence, I myself do not have direct representation in the UN Security Council. It was asked what the content would be, but that is precisely the subject of the negotiations. How far will the mandate go or not? In my view, the most important issue is how far surgery can take place in relation to the African coast, the Libyan coast. The United States was first reluctant, but it is now accommodating and Russia would also be much more accommodating, but that is feedback from the third hand that I receive about the negotiations at the UN Security Council level. As I have said before, phase 1 consists of gathering information and that phase can start today. Belgium's current contribution to the EUNAVFOR consists of two people on a regular mission, not even in surgery, to prepare an operation and to set up a possible headquarters. A second stage would indeed be to intervene in international waters, namely the operating area in which we operate today. In international waters, certain international rules of law allow action to be taken if there is a suspicion of human trafficking. I believe that a UN resolution can make the mandate in this area much stronger and clearer. For a number of countries, including Europe, which would like to take part in any military action, a UN resolution is a sine qua non. As Mr Reynders has just mentioned, both a UN resolution and an agreement by Libya are preferable. Without a UN resolution, Libya could still ask to intervene. This could allow a coalition to operate there with a certain mandate. Today, every effort is still being made for a United Nations resolution. What could be a possible Belgian contribution? Given the current state of the operation, there can be no concrete questions and therefore we have not yet prepared any concrete analysis projects. We intervened with the Godetia very quickly because the ship was available very quickly. Due to the fact that the Godetia can accommodate relatively large groups and a helicopter was available, which made the scope much greater, Frontex was asking for quick intervention from the Godetia. On 14 May the decision was taken in the Council of Ministers and on 22 May the ship was already operational in the area. I believe that we could not have acted much faster. If we were to have an NAVFOR as a new operation, we would have to see what we will be asked to do. Specifically, the offer of boats to participate in that operation will be greater than is needed today. I mean that there are more boats available for that. It is therefore possible that our contribution to the operation staff, the exploration of information or coordination will be more likely than sending out a frigate directly. Of course, this is all to be expected because we must first know what the operation will involve. Will Belgium be asked to contribute? Then, as I always do, I will look at whether we can effectively contribute something and provide added value, whether the assignment we are given is clear and whether the risk analysis is complete as it should be. In that case, the budget can also be determined at that time. With regard to budgetary control, we have made a small adjustment to the budget for operations for unforeseen operations that could occur. If I am not mistaken, that is category 5 in my budgetary tables. This change was not great, but I believe that this debate will soon start in Parliament. We can then go into more detail. Such an operation will cover a longer period of time, as will Operation NAVFOR. So we must not set aside budgets from today on tomorrow. However, when drawing up the operational plan for the next few years, we will have to determine what attention and priority we want to give to this specific European mission. Presidents, I think I have answered everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u51	Mr President, I would like to address a number of questions raised by people who are still here. I am no longer answering questions from those who are no longer present. Mr van Mechelen, as regards the key and my comment that we should give more specific weight to what has happened over the last ten years in the area of reception services, we are still part of that Schengen area and of that European Union............................................................................................................................................................................... What is the status of that proposal? It is a proposal which has been added as an annex. The debate on this is open. Tomorrow, the European Commission will present a proposal on how this will work in practice. These debates are still going on behind the scenes. They will also have to be conducted in Parliament, as will the European Commission. As Minister Reynders said, France said no in the last few weeks. We are talking about that now. Spain and a number of other countries also have some questions. The position of our country is very clear. We are in favour of more intra-European solidarity. We do think relocation is a good idea to help a number of countries, but we still need to talk about how, about the key itself, we can talk about it. That's what we're saying. Mrs Lanjri, you say that the target groups themselves are not a bad idea. We too await the European Commission's proposal. If one is devolved, will one also check whether there is any family in a particular country? That's a good idea. That's something we can take into account in the discussion. I'll come to the numbers. Mrs Lanjri, I have already said that the figures are not yet available. Last weekend, I read in a message from Reuters that there would be 40,000 people, especially Syrians and Eritreans who would be relocated from Greece and Italy to other European Member States. That's a rumor. As is often the case, a journalist has spoken with a European Commissioner or spokesperson, who has deliberately or unintentionally said something about this. I do not think it is the responsibility of the Belgian Government to comment on all possible rumours that go around in the European neighbourhood. Over the last few weeks, I have often been asked why our country has not yet taken a position. I'd really like to do that. Mr Belet was on the radio last week with a very good interview. I would very much like to take a position, but I have to know the specific proposal. Let's wait for that first. That will be something for tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, and we will certainly respond to that. In any case, there is the element that when talking about relocation, there is also a need to talk about compliance with the asylum provisions acquired at European level. So that's about taking fingerprints, among other things. There was a question about that. I am convinced that Italy is making quite a bit of effort. In the Parliament in Rome, there have been rather strong debates on national security. One sees fingerprinting and knowing who ends up with them in the first place as a security issue. All the stories that are circulating about IS fighters and terrorists sitting on those boats do stir up the debate and make the question of who enters Europe a security issue. So we need to keep records, including fingerprints. However, there is another problem. I myself saw in Lampedusa that they have all the necessary equipment to take fingerprints. At first, people thought it was a technical matter, but it wasn't. That's the state of the art. That's not the problem. They have staff, too. That is not the problem either, but there is a discussion as to whether a person can be physically obliged to take fingerprints. I've checked that out. In our asylum services, there has never been any problem with fingerprinting, because we want to apply for asylum, because of social benefits and a number of other things that are not there in Italy. In Italy, we receive EUR zero in aid if we are recognised as refugees. The reasoning is:get a job. There is also no social home or apartment. In our country, but also in Germany or Sweden, things are somewhat different. I'm not giving any value judgment on that at all. It's our system. It's our concept of how it's supposed to be, but that naturally creates a pool factor. I don't have to draw a picture. It is also much better to go to countries where there is a high degree of recognition. One can really do asylum shopping. A Syrian knows that he gets protection everywhere, both in Sweden, Italy, Germany, Greece and France. That's de facto. They are therefore in a comfortable situation, as soon as they have entered Europe. Italy is asking for an explicit regulation. The European directive is not entirely clear. One can make fingerprinting mandatory, but one cannot force it physically. So it's pretty complicated. One could even go a piece to detention: a person who refuses to have his fingerprints taken could be locked up because he refuses. That is, of course, already quite far-reaching. By the way, that facility isn't on Lampedusa. It's a two-mile island, it's tiny. There are many tourists, many more tourists than boat refugees. It is a very tourist island, among others Berlusconi has an outdoor residence. There's no prison. The asylum centre has 250 beds. When we were there, there were 650 to 700 people. So it's crammed. They do their best, but it's not that easy. It's pretty complex. I have also heard here say that it is fundamental that they still apply for asylum in the country of arrival, Mrs De Coninck. That is the Dublin concept, which has come under a government that the N-VA was not part of, to prevent asylum shopping. I think everyone's behind that. For example, it is not possible to make successive applications in France, Belgium and so on. There was no way to do that anymore. That is why the Dublin concept was introduced. That concept is certainly not perfect, but that is the philosophy behind it. One cannot talk about relocation without talking about taking fingerprints. Otherwise, in practice, this would mean that people in Belgium are applying for asylum when they have actually entered the Schengen area in Italy or Greece. Therefore, if we are to relocate from these countries, we are simply doing double-up, even though we are already doing a lot more than the European average and, for example, in the case of Syrians, we are doing a lot more than Italy and Greece. On average, per 1 000 inhabitants, we are doing more than Greece and Italy at the moment. It's been for years. If we transfer 50 000 or 100 000 people from Italy and Greece via a distribution key when fingerprinting is not better regulated, people can continue to travel and apply for asylum. Then nothing will be solved at all. The principle is that refugees in the countries of arrival also apply for asylum at relocation. We will then deal with the application further, but the philosophy must be clear. If we do not do that and we do relocate, then we will solve nothing at all, because then we will just double up. We are catching more than 100 people this morning who are applying for asylum day after day, as well as people we are going to fly in from Rome, Milan, Athens and so on. Then the logic underlying the European asylum system is no longer correct. The foundations are then unhealthy. That is what the debate is about at the European level. Then I come to the questions relating to EASO. At present, there are two Belgian protection officers who are already helping to deal with asylum applications in Rome. I have long talked to the Italian Secretary of State for Migration, Mr Manzione. We are currently looking at how we can do more, but there must also be a question from them. Their asylum service works according to a very different concept than ours. Their asylum service is hesitant about the fact that people from outside Italy, the protection officers, deal with the asylum files. People are in favour of making good country charts, giving good information, giving good credit to the story. The handling of applications by non-Italians is a very sensitive issue. I understand and respect that position. Maybe we'd be ship owners if it were the other way around. There must therefore be a specific question for help, but we do want to help. By the way, we're already doing that. I thought it was remarkable that you said 550. One has gone from 150 to 550 at six months. It was normally a resolution of 150 for 2014. We're going to 550 now. That's twice raised. The government did. We need to look at this, along with what is happening every day on our main service in Brussels. Every day, dozens, hundreds of asylum applications are made. Almost all Syrians are entitled to a right of residence. The 550 cannot therefore be separated from the fact that we dealt with 1 700 asylum applications last year. Many of them have also been granted a right of residence. That's just intellectually incorrect. One has to see that in its entirety. When people say that we are not the best in the classroom and that we have to perform better or that others perform better, I find that reasoning of better and rather strange. The best in the class is Sweden. That country of 10 million inhabitants captures 100 000 refugees. Are they the best in the class? You should talk about this with a Swedish Member of Parliament or a Swedish Minister. I think the comparison best or better student is also a delicate story there. Instead of saying that we should do better than this, I think it would be more appropriate to say that Sweden is doing more than that. You say we're in ninth place. I do not think that is correct; we are in seventh place. We have been much higher for many years, even in the top three. I have the figures: for asylum applications in 2014 per 1 000 inhabitants, Belgium ranks seventh. I don't know where your numbers come from.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u52	My figures give the average for the period 2010-2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u53	It's about resettlement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u54	No, these are numbers of asylum applications per thousand inhabitants.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u55	Well, I guess I'll have to check it out. In 2010 and 2011, we experienced an asylum crisis and were at between 30 000 and 40 000 applications per year. In any case, I believe that our country is making a great deal of effort and has always been above the European average. This will also be the case in the coming months. If we compare our asylum rates, we will find that we are doing much more than the European average, even more than Italy and Greece! However the comparison is made, per 1 000 inhabitants or relative to GDP, with all possible criteria, we are all at the European summit. Ik kom tot humanitarian visa. I said at the committee meeting on 29 April that we are investigating this. We are not yet a month later; and the investigation is still ongoing. The discussion is difficult, because there are a lot of angels on it and there are a lot of hooks and eyes on it. We're working on that. However, once again, Article 9 of the Aliens Act already allows the granting of humanitarian visas. So there are possibilities and we are working on them. As regards the debate on development cooperation, I would like to say that I took part in all the major debates on Libya, Mali and Afghanistan in committee meetings as a member of the opposition at the time. I knew that Mr De Vriendt would talk about this, because the same thing happened every time. The then Minister for Development Cooperation was not present at those debates either. Mr De Vriendt, you are consistently knocking on the same nail, but the members who have ever been part of the government should take a look at the past. The question was also asked whether we would do too little from the point of view of development cooperation. In this context, I would like to add a few elements that have not yet been mentioned. The UNHCR, which is responsible for the reception of refugees in neighbouring countries, especially Jordan, Lebanon, Turkey, but also in Eastern Congo, in many places in the world, is mainly accused of looking the other way for more than 70% of the world's wealthy Western countries every year. The only non-Western country that does make a substantial contribution is Kuwait, at 3%. Saudi Arabia and other oil states contribute almost nothing. So that story of the idle rich West doesn't make any sense. We are making these efforts. There was, for example, a major pledging conference for Syria and for victims in Iraq, on 31 March in Kuwait. Who put the biggest bag of money on the table, who opened his money bag the most? The European Union, with more than one billion euros. In the story as if we were doing nothing, we must therefore look at the whole picture in order to be able to form a correct picture. It was noted that I would confuse everything about migration. With all due respect, if that should have happened, I apologize. I believe that I always try to make things very clear and not to confuse them. If something does not come across quite clearly because of the translation on the French-speaking side, I apologise for that, but that was certainly never my intention. I have never put family men together with illegal and legal asylum seekers on the same heap. I try to speak about migration in an intellectually decent way. I apologize if there was anything unclear. I didn't mean to. If there are any questions, let me clarify. Sometimes people say I'm saying something, but they think something else. That is an intention process and I cannot defend myself against it. That started on 11 October: Mr Francken, you say sister, but you may think otherwise. Well, that is an intention process and I cannot defend myself against it. I'm asking you to stop doing that, even if everyone does what they want. A question was also asked about a separate European Commissioner for Migration. In fact, there is now for the first time a European Commissioner for Migration, in particular Mr Avramopoulos. After a long push by a number of Member States, he is now here. Now I hear that we also want a separate European Commissioner for the boat refugees crisis. I do not think that is necessary and we should continue to work with the European Commissioner for Migration. Mrs Grosemans, it is true that Saudi Arabia last year had the highest spending on defence investments in the world. The Saudi border is less than 100 kilometres from the Syrian border. Last year Saudi Arabia received 93 asylum applications, if I am not mistaken. There's no refugee camp on the territory. That's all I'm gonna say. A number of North African countries are being asked to participate in search and rescue. I don't know. They certainly do not participate in the current search-and-rescue operation. It is in itself a question of the fact that the navy of a number of countries must sail thousands of nautical miles to operate on the Mediterranean in the vicinity of Libya, while the navy of stable countries nearby are not participating in that operation. In itself, that is something in which questions can be asked. Why must it always be the European Member States that put the matter on the table? It wouldn't be entirely illogical, which is also explicitly stated in the European Agenda on Migration to engage in the debate with a number of North African countries, of course not Libya itself, no one expects, to ask them to participate in the search and rescue operation. Because of those boats, I'm hearing bullshit here. I heard some very heavy words here. The future will, of course, show this. At first it was a totally insane idea, I heard it in the Seventh Day. Everyone thought it was from me, but it came from the European Union. Apparently, the reporter wasn't well informed. Suddenly it was my idea to destroy those boats on the Libyan coastline. That was never my idea. Now I receive emails that congratulate me because Europe has followed me. That's how it goes. However, it was not my idea at all. It was also said that there would never be a mandate from the UN. We'll see. I have already said in committee that I am not pessimistic in this respect. It is progressing very quickly; it is being seriously speeded up. Mrs Mogherini has made a very good course in this so far. She did very well last week in New York. In any case, those are the messages I'm receiving. Maybe you'll get other messages, I don't know. So we'll see what it's gonna be. Here's what I want to say about these boats. At Lampedusa I saw some of those boats and I talked to some police officers, at least Navy people. Those boats that they fish, they're not really boats that people sit on. Those are boats. I have here a picture of the little boats and the inflatables pulling to the high seas, over the waves. On the high seas these small boats are then unloaded to continue sailing. The passengers have a phone and the Navy's number. They then call to tell us where they are and that they must be picked up. Sometimes they have an emergency number, an international signal that warns ships in the vicinity. I'm not a Marine, but basically. So it's mainly about the boats that pull the other boats to the high seas. There's only smugglers on it, no other people. You've got to imagine that. So it's not so much about the rubber boats that these people are sitting on, because they can always be updated or purchased quickly, but definitely about those bigger boats. Those boats aren't used by fishermen. So we are not taking away the boats from the fishermen. That's not right. Those boats aren't used to fish. They may have been fishing boats once, but now it is certainly not the case that they are fished during the day and that they are used by smugglers at night. I don't know where that story came from. If there's evidence for that, I'd like to receive it. Mrs Pas, you made a comment about shelter in your own region. The vast majority of refugees, 90% of last year's refugees, are being received in their own region. Only a small part eventually comes to the West. When you talk about 3.7 million under the Syrian and Iraqi conflict, about three million people are divided between refugee camps in Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan. So it is already the case that reception is mainly in the region and that only a small proportion, often the strongest and those who still have some capital, travels to Europe. Moreover, most migrants in the world do not come from the poorest countries. That's one of those stories. I hope I have answered most of the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u56	I shall go back to the rules we apply in the Committee on External Relations. Anyone else want the word for a reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u57	Mr Secretary of State, Mr Reynders has explained to us that he has committed himself to the European Union, as part of this distribution of African refugees, to accommodate 500 people. For your part, you said this morning that you were challenging this quota allocation system. You are therefore questioning this quota of 500 refugees. In your view, it is important to take some parameters into account: the well-being and achievements already achieved in the reception of refugees. You argue that Belgium is better situated than other countries, whereas in your majority we are said to be lagging behind other countries. So what kind of conclusion do you want to come up with after doing this demonstration?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u58	Mr President, I have raised the problem of our merchant industry today. I wonder, Minister, whether the use of Navy ships will prevent them from providing such assistance themselves? I have no idea how many ships will be deployed. However, I will mention one figure. In 2014 alone, 800 merchant ships had to change their course due to emergency signals. Everyone, of course, has their assignment. It goes without saying that aid should be provided whenever necessary. Here, however, we as a European Member State must assume our responsibility and do so ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u59	Mr President, Mr Francken, if it is right, I must also admit that. Your comment on Saudi Arabia in a committee where Defence, Foreign Affairs and Migration are discussed is incredibly justified. When I see the role of Saudi Arabia in many dossiers throughout the region, for example in the policy on Syria, of which we receive many refugees, the lack of support in the reception of asylum seekers and its zol in the radicalisation of many young people in Europe through a mosque policy, the point you are making is correct. However, I hope from the bottom of my heart that you, the ministers responsible, will be consistent in the various areas and will therefore take a number of diplomatic and economic decisions on how we will develop our relations with Saudi Arabia in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u60	Mr. Secretary of State, you raise a series of questions and you are right to do so. There should be no taboo subject, particularly on the cooperation we are entitled to expect from certain third countries and on possible solutions from these countries. I think it would be easier to audible if you first affirmed our values, our concerns and our principles. That is also what must be at the heart of our migration and asylum policy. These questions would be more readily admissible. The problem is that you have little to hear about these other issues, which are at the heart of what European responsibilities should be. With regard to your comment on immigrants, I no longer know very well what I must remember from your answer. As a first step, you apologize and attribute this to the translation. I have heard these excuses and this confusion. And then you say there's a trial of intent. I'm not trying intent. I never did. I'm just hearing what you're saying. I hear, at first, what I interpret as a clarification; and then finally I don't know very well whether it is a clarification or whether you keep those words. In any case, I hope that there is no amalgam in relation to all these questions. It is about finding lasting solutions for these people who risk their lives. We realize that European policies are not appropriate. There is sometimes a very strong political dialogue with third countries. There is also the way in which we manage these flows in Europe. We can discuss indefinitely the level of reception in Belgium of people who manage to knock our door. I usually think it's pretty good. I don't doubt that, I never did. But we can see that today this policy is not working. We need to completely recast it. In the future, it will be possible to address all issues, but with the principles, values and priorities of the European Union in mind and in substance. That's what I sometimes have concerns about.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u61	Mr President, I do not wish to be unpleasant, but I can understand that when the political family belongs to the EPP, of which Mr Orbán is also a member, there are some questions about the values that are being defended at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u62	That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u63	I really believe it! Every time, you're moralizing everyone, Mr. Dallemagne! Try to defend your point of view in terms of your political formation and the European group to which you belong! I'm not in the same group as Mr. Orbán!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u64	Mr President, let me get this straight. I have the answer to Mr De Vriendt's question. The figures to which Mr De Vriendt refers were from the 2014 Frontex report. The share of Syrians on the boats was substantially higher at that time. However, since the beginning of January, we have seen a significant drop in Syrians. It's about numbers from 1 January to 20 April. I said this in committee too. I brought those tables. There is nothing wrong with adding this to the report. Mr Kir, on the one hand you blame me for throwing everything at a pile, on the other hand you do this yourself. The number 550 relates to the United Nations resettlement programme and not to relocation. I have tried to clarify things in my general statement. Resettlement in itself has nothing to do with relocation. Resettlement is about people who are in refugee camps, have not entered Europe and have not tried to do so. Those people are being flown in by a key. The Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless and UNHCR are making a certain selection. We have increased the number from 150 to 300 and for 2015 even to 550. At our request, the European Commission has decided to do a minimum of 20 000 resettlements in 2014, 2015 and 2016. If a key were to be applied to it, we would already have more than any rational key that could ever apply to us with our 550. The story of the relocation is not about resettlement, or resettlement. That's another thing. It is about people who entered Europe on their own or with the help of naval vessels, the Triton action of Frontex. They were landed in Lampedusa, Sicily, Greece or wherever in Europe. They apply for asylum in the countries where they are due, in Italy or Greece, and are then relocated to other European Member States. Those are people in procedure who entered Europe on their own. They are mainly Syrians and Eritreans. They will be restored according to a proposal that the European Commission will make tomorrow. There is not the slightest inconsistency with the government's position on this issue. All parties within the government share the same view. With regard to resettlement, we have really shown our hearts, we have done what we have to do, we have already done what we have to do. On our proposal, Europe has gone along with the 20 000. First it was no, then yes. As far as relocation is concerned, we say that we are in favour of this, but on two conditions. The first condition is that this key should consider whether it is not a question of population density and whether we should not give more specific weight to what has already been done in the last five years with regard to the reception of asylum seekers. A second condition for relocation is that the work of fingerprints must be done completely. The entire asylum acquis must therefore be implemented by Italy and Greece. That is the government's position, on which there is no discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u65	That's not an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u66	That's an answer, isn't it? Then what is your question?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u67	You explained earlier that you were questioning the parameters. I ask you if you question the 500 or 550 people that should be welcomed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u68	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u69	You give the opposite impression by questioning the criteria and parameters. And then we get the same result.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u70	It's about relocation, not resettlement. It's just not the same thing. Finally, Mr Van Mechelen, the merchant navy is very important, but it is not really a file for Asylum and Migration, rather for Foreign Affairs. The merchant fleet will, of course, be less taxed now that Operation Triton has tripled and naval vessels from many European Member States are very active on the ground. The number of emergency calls to merchant ships will therefore be less high. However, international maritime law makes it very clear that if a ship receives an alarm signal and it is the nearest one, the ship must be rescued.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u71	I still have a little practical problem. We cannot add this to the report because there is a report on the basis of oral questions. Could you read the figures so that we can record them, Mr Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u72	This concerns the number of people arriving in Italy between 1 January and 20 April 2015. From Syria 1 596 people, from Eritrea 3 248 people, from Somalia 2 566 people, from Nigeria 1 991 people, thus also more than Syria................................................................................................................................................... According to these figures, Syrians account for 7%, 1 596 out of 23 943 persons during this period. As I said in committee, the figures are, of course, correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-26-54-commissie-ic178x.u73	I believe that our debate is exhausted. I have noted the double wish to repeat it at a later date, when more or new information will be available, as well as Mr De Vriendt's question to think about how we can conduct the debate. We have now given a total of 21 people the floor. A first conclusion is that the duration of a joint meeting one morning, from 10 a.m. to 13 a.m. is too short. We'd better make it an afternoon meeting. Then we have time from 14:00 to 17:30. Then the presidency should put less pressure on fellow Members to limit speaking time. If there are ideas, for example about the order in which we give the people the floor, please pass them on. These three Presidents are prepared to think about everything.
