ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u1	Madam President, Minister, anyone living with one or more persons with whom he or she jointly regulates the household is entitled to a living wage of category 1, in particular living wage as a cohabitant. Since this person shares the household and the associated costs, that person is not entitled to a category 2 living wage, in particular as a single person. However, there are people who live together with someone who has no income at all, but who is not dependent on that first person either. This may include, for example, someone living with an asylum seeker in proceedings or with a student who has exceeded the maximum period of study with a living wage. Both last persons are examples of people without income. I have the following questions. What kind of living wage category does a person living with a person who has no income himself have a right according to the POD MI? If it were a category 1 living wage, particularly as a cohabitant, does the Minister not think it would be more logical and equitable for this person, who lives together with someone who has no income of his own, to be entitled to a category 2 living wage as a single person? The person without income cannot in any way contribute to the costs incurred by the household. Are you willing to change this? In your policy paper, you yourself stated that you wanted to establish clear and updated conditions for all categories of beneficiaries. I would also like to refer here to a ruling of the Constitutional Court of November 2011 which states that living together must provide an economic and financial advantage before anyone can be considered a cohabitant.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u2	According to the Law of 26 May 2002 on the right to social integration, cohabitation means that persons live under the same roof and mainly regulate their household affairs in common. When the living wage is awarded, the applicant's actual situation prevails. The lack of income of the applicant for the living wage and the state of power of the person with whom he may live under one roof must be determined individually by social research. The OMCW shall verify whether the applicant for the living wage obtains an economic or financial benefit from the cohabitation. This advantage may be that the cohabitant has income that allows him to share certain costs but also that the cohabitant can benefit from certain material benefits through the cohabitation, thereby reducing expenditure. On the basis of the social research and the determination of the economic or financial advantage of the cohabitation of the applicant for the living wage, the OMCW decides to award the living wage of a single person or of a cohabitant. The judgment of the Constitutional Court of 10 November 2011 cited by you thus confirms the position that has been taken. Mrs Willaert, for more information, I would like to refer you to the website of the Social Integration PPS, in particular the section on the Law of 26 May 2002 on the right to social integration, published on the website. Furthermore, as I indicated in my policy paper, I would indeed like to examine a convergence between living wages and the equivalent of living wages, in order to arrive at a coherent system with clear and updated conditions for all categories of beneficiaries. I also wish to examine the law on living wages, to check whether they are still adapted to the current forms of living together, such as co-parenthood. In 2015 I will launch the first study assignments for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u3	Minister, I understand that it is up to the social research of the OMCW to determine whether the cohabitation does indeed bring a social and economic financial benefit. It is therefore possible that, when a person is living with a person without an income, the OCMW grants a living wage for a single person and does not so much stick to the category to which the person belongs. I just want to remind you of two weeks ago and call for further reflection in the future. Two weeks ago, a hearing was held here in the Committee on Health on a resolution on the fight against poverty. On that occasion, the VVSG in Flanders, its Brussels and Walloon counterparts, the Networks Against Poverty and the Support Points called on the VVSG in Flanders to separate itself from the question I am now asking and to give clear scope to deal with the issue individually, which is a good thing to think further and to determine the benefits not so much on the basis of the statute of the persons concerned but rather on the basis of their income. That is in fact an extension of your answer to this question. I look forward to working on this and making proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u4	There are obviously links between these different skills.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u5	Minister, here I am again with the same question. Last time, I might not have put it so sharp. At that time, I was particularly interested in your opinion on the proposed measure. You said you were in favour of the measure. Of course, we can only endorse that. Belgium is rabies-free and we want to keep it that way. An additional advantage is that we prevent bread-breeding from countries that are affected by it. In my reply, I have already stated explicitly at that time: 'I would like to highlight that even more, 'that the problem with the measure is that it is all or nothing'. Of course, he covers the aim to ward off rabies and to prevent the breeding of bread in the Eastern Bloc countries, but the measure also affects the bona fide growers here, for example of special breeds, who really select dogs from abroad to keep their breed pure. For example, growers do competitions and train their dogs to become hunting dogs. They really need the puppy for 15 weeks. The police dogs and the guide dogs are even more important in that sense. These are also the result of international programmes, whereby dogs are selected abroad and should come here for 15 weeks. That has been confirmed to me by the organisations that are working on this. The solution whereby we can avoid rabies and at the same time avoid rash dogs, police dogs and blind guide dogs is that the EU would allow additional conditions to be imposed. For example, we could apply the rule to countries where rabies is still present, but not to non-rabies countries. We have those lists and could use them perfectly. Hence my question, are you aware that the EU regulation also affects bona fide growers and prevents them from exporting or importing their pups from countries that are rabies-free? It really sometimes just goes across the border between Belgium and the Netherlands. Will you argue at European level that Member States should be allowed to impose additional conditions, referring to the Finnish example? If not, why not? The rule prevents exports between non-rabies countries, such as Belgium and the Netherlands, and makes it impossible for bona fide growers and for the police and blind dog programmes to continue their good work. If you are aware of this, do you intend to take other measures to protect those concerned? If so, when will you raise the issue specifically and at what level? When can we expect feedback on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u6	Mrs Van Camp, as I have already said in reply to your previous question on the subject, the European Commission's explanation of the all-or-nothing nature of the derogations must be taken into account when granting derogations from the rules on vaccination for rabies. Where derogations are granted, they should be imposed on all Member States, both for commercial and non-commercial traffic. It is therefore clear that no additional requirements can be imposed by individual Member States for granting or not granting derogations, for example according to whether rabies is present in the country of origin or not. As far as your comment on Finland is concerned, I do indeed note that Finland is making use of the possibility of granting derogations from the European basic rule on vaccination against rabies. However, Finland's inclusion of certain additional conditions is not correct. Finland allows the exception for all Member States. In an additional communication on its website, the Finnish veterinary service recommends that only pups complying with the European basic rules on vaccination against rabies should be introduced into Finland from countries where rabies has recently been established. This is therefore merely a recommendation and not an additional special condition. As you know, Belgium is free of rabies and we want to keep it that way. So I do not intend to depart from the general vaccination rule because it is a good means of arming us against rabies, as you yourself have supported in your question. Since each Member State can decide autonomously whether or not to allow derogations from vaccination against rabies, regardless of Belgium's decision, it is therefore not possible to export non-vaccined or non-immunised pups to countries that do not allow an exception. This is particularly the case in our neighbouring countries, the Netherlands, France and Germany, which have also chosen not to grant derogations. As regards the introduction into Belgium of non-immunised puppies, I believe that your question is that your concern relates on the one hand to puppies introduced into Belgium for specific breeding purposes and, on the other hand, to dogs with special functions, such as assistance dogs and police dogs, where the problem is concentrated in the socialisation and training of these animals. The Regulation also provides for the additional possibility of providing for a derogation under strict conditions in exceptional cases and for non-commercial traffic. I will have my services examine whether those exceptional cases may apply to the introduction of assistance dogs. However, we must be careful about this, because the recitals to the regulation specify that this is a derogation that can be granted in the context of the introduction of the owner's urgent departure, for example because of force majeure. Although I really want to find a solution for the associations that train these dogs, I cannot go on a slope that would not comply with European law. Finally, I would like to point out that European legislation is the result of a prior consultation between the experts of the Member States and a compromise between the three institutions of the European Union, namely the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament. Even though a plea to the European Union, as you suggest, would be considered appropriate, I fear it will be very difficult to find supporters of a reopening of the general debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u7	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. That sounds more positive than before. You are aware of the problems in those specific groups which should not be affected by this. I certainly welcome the fact that you have your services examine whether this small exception can be applied in these cases. I hope that we will be kept informed. It is correct that this has been achieved in consultation with the Commission, the Council and Parliament. That does not mean, however, that those people could not have foreseen that those rule would affect groups for which it was not intended. Perhaps they are equally asking to review this and to make the exception rule for these specific cases the rule that all Member States can apply. As regards your intention to intervene at European level and your reluctance to find opponents there, I would like to point out that a European petition has already collected 5 000 signatures. So the problem also exists elsewhere, and you may be able to find supporters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u8	This is a matter to follow and we will attend the various stages.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u9	Madam President, Minister, in 1998 the European countries, including Belgium, were closed the borders with European beef. Indeed, this decision followed the crisis of bovine spongiform encephalopathy, more known as "mad cow disease", which had occurred in Europe, and American fears about health aspects. On January 6, Washington decided to lift the embargo. As a first step, it would appear that only Irish meat can be reintroduced into the US market. Mr Minister, do you confirm that at present only Irish beef will soon be reintroduced on American soil? Are Belgium-specific steps underway to open the American market to Belgian Blue White or Belgian-born animals? According to the press, the AFSCA maintains contacts with its American counterparts. What is the focus of the discussions? The American market is very difficult to access for some of our products. Does Washington's recent opening signal bode well for the future of exporting our quality products? Are you aware of any of the elements in this direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u10	Madam President, Mrs Cassart, Ireland is the only Member State in the European Union to have the authorisation of the US competent authority, United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), to export beef to the United States. Belgium has also taken specific steps for the attention of the US authorities to open the market to Belgian beef. The sectors concerned have shown interest in the export of other products, such as pigmeat, bovine colostrum, for human consumption or egg products to the United States. AFSCA contacted USDA, based in Washington, to open the market for Belgian beef. She had to complete the forms and questionnaires required by the U.S. administration even before Ireland's authorization to export beef. The last contact in this regard dates from 2 and 3 February. As part of the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) between the European Union and the United States, USDA has detailed the State of play of application to export beef to US. This file must be sent to the Agency shortly, along with all its framework elements, to allow for the submission of applications for beef exports to the United States. In the presentation by the USDA, it was explained what Belgian approaches should be for the US authority to approve as an exporting State. These steps are relatively cumbersome. A detailed questionnaire for the requested products should be completed. This is a web-based procedure, which will come into force shortly and includes six risk areas: government oversight, statute authority and food safety regulations, sanitation, hazard analysis and critical control points system, chemical residue control programs, microbiological testing programs. I will pass on this information to you, but the examination spectrum is extensive and very broad. The Agency will adapt its responses to the initial questionnaires, to the new USDA requirements, as soon as it receives the new framework, the new application system to export to the United States, and will send them as soon as possible, i.e. very quickly, to the US administration. After an analysis of the USDA, an on-site audit will be conducted by this U.S. administration to verify whether the inspection system works as indicated in writing and whether the required level of protection is achieved. According to the USDA, unfortunately no fixed timetable can be established for an application because it depends on several factors, such as the quality of the file introduced, translations and interaction with the Member State. This can sometimes be a delay of several years. Fortunately, we have a good level of food security and organization. In this regard, AFSCA is often cited as an example abroad. I recently received my counterpart from Montenegro, who met with AFSCA in particular because he was interested in our processes. This professionalism of the AFSCA is an asset to us. The PSAB will take steps to ensure that these files are filed as soon as possible. Since 2012, Belgium has had negligible risk status for BSE, which should facilitate an agreement with the United States. I would like to add that the Agency's efforts are not limited, as I said, to beef but are also aimed at opening up markets for other products such as pigmeat, poultrymeat or egg products. I conclude by recalling the passage of the government agreement and what I had also recalled in my policy and policy note, namely that exports are a priority for me. I am very committed to the activation of means and networks to facilitate this openness to export for our producers and products. Finally, in the future business plan of the AFSCA, in full intelligence with the Agency, we have ensured that support, facilitation, administrative simplification and a qualitative response to the export-related process, not only to the United States but to other countries and also to large exports, are also priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u11	Minister, thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer. I think it's really going in the right direction. I am really glad that exporting is one of your priorities, because it is one of mine too. If we want to save our agriculture and facilitate production at home, export is essential. I have understood the path, which is going to be heavy and long, but which is still a good augury given the measures already taken at home. I have no doubt that the AFSCA will be able, at some point, to return the file to the USDA and that an analysis will be made. I also understand that you do not have a fixed calendar until now. I think in the second half of this year I will come back to you to see how things are going, because it won't change before, it's not possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u12	Madam President, Minister, the shortage of rural veterinarians, which is essentially regional in nature, I agree, also has a number of federal ramifications. Therefore, I would like us to take stock of this issue. In the Walloon Region, a study carried out five years ago had revealed a series of elements explaining the situation encountered in our Walloon countryside, namely the hard work provided by veterinarians, the heavy administrative tasks, the impoverishment of herders, the development of large farms threatening certain relations with herders or the standardization of regulations lacking. Administrative constraints include those related to food safety. Mr Minister, the Walloon observation is implacable: there is a clear indication of shortage. Is this also the case in Flanders? Are the causes similar? Have you been made aware, as a minister, of this problem by the Professional Veterinary Union? Have you been contacted? Have you had bilateral relations with the firms to discuss this topic? Are there constraints related to food security identified as one of the reasons for the shortage? Are some administrative simplification measures envisaged? If so, can you specify which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u13	Madam President, Mrs Cassart, my answer will be nuanced. As is well known, the subjects relating to the exercise of veterinary medicine, epidemiosurveillance and, in general, animal health (except for wildlife) fall within my competence as these subjects have remained entirely federal. As far as I am concerned, I believe that these are important areas of activity not only for the stakeholders but also for the pursuit of public health objectives, in terms of the economic impact on our farms and, above all, for the quality of the products that we are able to offer to Belgian and foreign consumers. As far as I am concerned, it is quite clear that the veterinarian is at the centre of the epidemiosurveillance system and that, in this context, the shortage of rural veterinarians must be avoided at all costs. In fact, my policy and policy notes attest to my willingness to follow this situation and this reality very closely. AFSCA's future business plan also takes this theme into account. The Walloon study you cite dates back to 2009. It's qualitative. She rightly refers to the difficulties, the problems and the malaise of the rural veterinary profession. She describes this malaise and tries to detect a number of causes and identify the factors of demotivation. We know some of them: the heaviness of schedules, constraint, flexibility, night schedules, demands, etc. This study, although not devoid of interest – I do not question it at all – is, however, not quantitative. It does not mechanically conclude that there is a shortage of rural veterinarians and it does not. At the initiative of my predecessor, Mrs Laruelle, a cadastre for veterinarians practising bovine medicine has been established. This cadastre was presented in July 2013 at the agricultural fair in Libramont, during a meeting with the Professional Veterinary Union. This cadastre was also presented to the Vetconsult, a permanent working group of the AFSCA, which brings together all stakeholders in veterinary medicine. This was done on September 30, 2013. The findings of this cadastre indicate that there was no shortage of bovine veterinarians - which can be described as rural veterinarians - both in terms of the coverage of epidemiosurveillance and surveillance of so-called official missions, and in terms of the daily care to be provided to animals in farms. However, the exercise reported very different situations from one region to another and from one subregion to another. The veterinary degree – as we know – opens the door to any type of practice without the detail of it being informed. For technical reasons that it would be too long to develop here, the cadastre was not, at the time, extended to veterinarians dealing with other species. In response to the problem you are referring to, however, it is my intention to update the current cadastre, in consultation with the veterinary organisations, to make projections for the future in order to anticipate, if possible, a future shortage of bovine veterinarians, and to extend this cadastre to the practice of the veterinary profession with other species. In addition to its quantitative role in analysing the number of veterinarians, it should, in the long term, also allow targeted information to be sent to veterinarians concerned by or interested in the future, where appropriate, in a specific region, and to use this device in the context, for example, of specific health warnings. If necessary, this cadastre will also allow the health authority and for certain animal species to make use of ad hoc practitioners. I conclude, Madam President, so as not to abuse your patience, your benevolence – but the question is important. Finally, in order to prevent a possible shortage and facilitate the work of rural veterinarians, but not only, and also to fit into the context of the feminization of the profession, association work was facilitated by the recognition of the veterinary legal person in 2014. In addition, vacations paid to veterinarians for brucellosis have recently been increased. This is a review of the situation and, as far as I am concerned, I would like to continue with this in the area of administrative simplification and modernisation of certain animal health legislation in order to adapt them to current knowledge and conditions on the ground. I have already taken a step in this direction in the fight against bovine tuberculosis. The calculation of the amount of veterinary leave, the administrative constraints associated with the administration and the issue of medicinal products will also be reviewed, without of course risking a reduction in the level of guarantee provided. At my request, my office met very recently, on 26 February, with representatives of the veterinary profession to discuss all these and other proposals transmitted by the organisations concerned, to which I reserve a careful examination for the moment. Let us also not forget the cross-cutting measures concerning the self-employed and SMEs, regardless of their sector. This is the summary of all of this, Member.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u14	Minister, thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer. It is interesting to update this cadastre, as you suggested. The aim is to anticipate, to be able to anticipate. The update of this cadastre will provide a numerical basis for our decisions, allowing us to anticipate. That goes in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u15	Perhaps you could think of the various and varied indicators to be introduced into a cadastre, in order to introduce these parameters from the beginning, contrary to what has been done for the cadastre of health professionals.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u16	Madam President, Minister, we read in the newspapers that the number of wage-earners continues to increase, and that young people, in particular, have to turn to the OMCW more and more. Of course, limiting the allowance plays a small role in this, although these figures prove, as we also expected, that not all young people, who were previously receiving an integration allowance, will simply end up in the OMCW. For those for whom this is the case, the adapted guidance of the OCMW is probably also appropriate. However, we must keep an eye on the increase in the number of wage-earners, and we must certainly regard them as negative. This also means that this government must continue to focus on this. One of the most important points in the coalition agreement is the raising of living wages and other low benefits to the European poverty line. In fact, I find it incredible that this objective has not been achieved in the past because a single person has to live with EUR 817 today. I may not have to explain to you that this is almost impossible in today's society. The fact that this government is taking responsibility in this respect is crucial, as far as we are concerned. You are not alone; you have the incredible help of a wonderful Secretary of State, Mrs Sleurs, to guide you in this matter. Now that we have been a few months in this period of government, I would like to ask you whether you have already taken steps, in consultation with Secretary of State Sleurs, and whether you have any idea of the timetable you wish to draw up in this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u17	Madam President, Minister, I will not repeat what my colleague has already said. I just want to quote a few more figures. It appears that one in three wage-earners, which is 32.9 %, is under 25 years of age. The proportion of these young people in our total society is only 10.7%. I think that comparison is pretty clear. I do not agree with my colleague that the disappearance of the integration allowance has nothing to do with that. The PPS Social Integration also indicates that this negative trend will certainly increase in the immediate future. Once again, one of the points of the coalition agreement is to raise that living wage. However, in your policy statement and that of Secretary of State Sleurs, we have in vain called for clarity on timing and budget. Mr Minister, do you already have an idea of a timing to realise this important point? What budget are you paying for that? Will this theme be included in the forthcoming budget control or in the adjustment?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u18	Madam President, the federal government's objective is to explore how to increase social minimums, including living wages, to the poverty risk threshold, taking into account the social benefits obtained. The aim is to use part of the wealth envelope for this purpose. This increase will be very gradual and will also have to be taken into account to ensure that there is sufficient tension with an income from work. A first step is therefore the adaptation to prosperity, which was developed in collaboration with the social partners for 2015 and 2016. The theoretical envelope for the welfare adjustment was established and the agreement of the social partners on the distribution of the envelope was obtained. This distribution would lead to an increase of 2% in living wages, like the other welfare benefits, from September 2015. My administration is currently preparing to submit the necessary legal texts to the Council of Ministers, of course in consultation with Mr Sleurs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u19	Minister, I understand that a first step is being taken, but you will agree with me that the coalition agreement is more ambitious than that and that further steps need to be taken. I call for a vision on which social benefits are charged. I understand the reasoning, because at the time some things were created precisely because the allowance was too low. So I understand that you need to do that exercise, but at some point this matter needs to be discussed. I also believe that a timetable should be set for the end of this legislature, with a slightly greater ambition. I know it is a challenge, especially in these budgetary times, and I certainly do not want to underestimate the exercise, but it is an important matter. The attention you pay to the tension that must be maintained with the income from labour is absolutely a concern that we share. Again, it's a balancing exercise, which I'd like to follow with you. I hope that we will be able to come back to this shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u20	Minister, I fully agree with the first part of your speech. We knew that, too. We are also in complete agreement with the fact that there must be sufficient tension with low wages. I understand that 2% will be added in September. I fully agree with my colleague, contrary to what you may think, that we really need to talk about this. This is a first step, but it's a very small one. As I said in the policy statement, it is a good thing that all other benefits are being considered, but now we want ready wine. It's all a little vague. It is time for this matter to be discussed in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u21	Mr Benoît Friart, author of question No 2164, was detained because of an accident. We'll see if he's coming anyway. Ms Griet Smaers, author of question 2249, was absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u22	Minister, the fight against food waste has been identified as one of your priorities. Every day, it is tons of food that are thrown into the world, even as millions of people suffer from malnutrition. In Belgium alone, many people depend on food banks. In 2014, they distributed some 13 million meals, representing 13,000 tons of food. More than half come from supermarkets, which donate surplus to food banks. Two years ago, tremendous progress was made in this area, particularly within the AFSCA, to make it easier for food stores to sell their unsold goods to associations. Minister, does the relaxation of the AFSCA rules for food banks still ensure optimal food security for products sold by supermarkets? Previously, food banks were considered by AFSCA as wholesalers. What rules now differ from the previous situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u23	Madam President, the food banks have been given some flexibility in terms of traceability, preservation and freezing of foodstuffs. They are well within the framework of a food security policy that is as social and sustainable as possible, while ensuring maximum consumer protection. This policy also aims to reduce the risk of waste. These flexibilities facilitate the delivery to food banks and the distribution of products by food banks, but by ensuring that the guarantees required for food security are safeguarded, which must not be at two speeds. For food banks, AFSCA has defined a specific activity within the business to consumer sector. They are not considered wholesalers, but retailers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u24	I thank the minister for his response, which brings me satisfaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u25	Mr Minister, the integration of the OCMW into city or municipality is a difficult issue in both parts of the country, as the Flemish government agreement has agreed that the integration of the OCMW into the municipality will be fully achieved, while in French-speaking Belgium it is planned on a voluntary basis. What about the remaining obstacles at federal level? The federal government agreement provides for the removal of barriers. In response to a question in the plenary of myself, among other things, you replied that you will effectively remove those barriers, but that the situation is not clear or obvious and that there is a lot of legal discussion about which federal legislation needs to be adapted precisely in order to make integration a reality. That said, the debate gives rise to a lot of unrest among the OCMWFs. Staff are concerned, they see that their organisation has to disappear or integrate in the long term. In the Flemish center cities there is even more concern, because it was initially not registered in the Flemish coalition agreement. For a few months now, we have been discussing what is needed at federal level. You said by the end of January you'd get an opinion on the possible amendments to federal laws. In fact, it will be very complex if we have to amend the special law of 1980, which also covers social security institutions. This law can only be amended by a two-thirds majority, which means that there must be a broad consensus on what one wants to do with the OCMWs. What's the status? Have you received the legal advice? Is this legal advice unambiguous and what direction does it lead to? Hopefully we will be able to clarify this quickly for the OCMWFs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u26	Mr President, I would like to add my voice to the questions that have just been asked by my colleague in connection with the special law of 1980. I hear that there is even discussion as to whether a two-thirds majority is needed or not. Did you get that legal advice yet? In addition, I hear that a lot of other legislative changes are needed. It is not just about the OCMW law and the living wage law, but about numerous laws that explicitly assign tasks and tasks to the OCMW or that approach the OCMW as a separate legal entity and separate employer. If these are not adjusted, local authorities risk losing subsidies or concessions or the models are not feasible. Can you give us an overview of the other texts that need to be adapted? I think there's a lot of them. A very important question is also how the government will register the necessary guarantees in the law, so that the current tasks of the OCMW in relation to social services and to professionalism will continue to be ensured even after integration of municipality OCMW. Have you discussed this with the Regions? What is the state of play? I think that the intentions and plans on integration vary from one region to another. How will you deal with that? Do you think it's a problem that these plans are different or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u27	Mr Minister, I asked once on 22 January for clarification, particularly as a result of the announcement by the Flemish Government to abolish the OCMWFs or, if one wishes to express it more positively, to roll over and to integrate local social policy into municipal structures. You do not know that I am one of the biggest supporters of the OCMWFs. It is the local authorities that are very close to the people with the most risks. There are always exceptions, of course, that work most efficiently. Therefore, I do not understand why the priority now is to target these local authorities to change. There are plenty of other processes of change possible. You replied that a thorough legal investigation should be carried out into the changes that we want to make, the procedures to be respected and the extent to which the federal government should play a role in this and in what way. You said that you would ask your administration for advice that there would be an end to this month. Mr. Secretary, you would consult with the Regions. What's the result of that? Do all regions have the same finality in mind? Do we want to ensure that this is done in all the municipalities in all the Communities and regions? What steps should be taken with regard to the adaptation of federal legislation? Is it only an amendment of federal OCMW legislation or also an amendment of the special 1980 law?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u28	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your questions. In the first instance, it is true that the coalition agreement in point 3.3.5 provides for the amendment of the legal framework to allow for the organic integration of municipal authorities and OCMWs. I will ensure that this point of the coalition agreement is respected. As far as the current tasks of the OMCS in the field of social services are concerned, I attach great importance to ensuring that they are always used with respect for the privacy of the persons concerned and that the necessary guarantees regarding the professionalism of the service are guaranteed in the future. It is correct that the regions or even the municipalities within a region are not unanimous about this integration. Flanders certainly wants such integration, the Brussels-Capital Region does not, and the Walloon Region leaves the decision to the local authorities. Taking into account the different views on the mentioned mergers, I will ensure that each region can implement the policy to which the decision is addressed. I have received the study of my administration on the mergers of OCMWFs and municipalities. This shows that it cannot be disputed that the reform with organisational autonomy for OCMWs and municipalities at the level of the Region is absolutely necessary to amend Article 2 of the Organic Law on OCMWs. This article stated that the Public Centres for Social Welfare are public institutions with legal personality, that they replace the Commissions of Public Support of which they take over all goods, rights, charges and obligations and that each municipality of the Empire is served by a Public Centre for Social Welfare. There are several possibilities to implement this change of law. A pure deletion of Article 2 is not conceivable because it identifies a competent authority with legal personality. Its deletion would remove the organic law from its substance. So we have to change this law. The amendment of Article 2 requires either an ordinary law or a special law. At this stage, it is premature to adopt a definitive position on the steps to be taken for this integration. I want to achieve this reform in a legally reliable way, fair and beneficial to all. I would therefore like to carry out a thorough analysis of the legal approach that will make it possible to achieve this reform as effectively as possible. This in-depth study is currently being carried out. I will make a final decision when I have all the necessary elements. So I won't make a rash decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u29	Minister, you have replied in part, but in fact there is still a great deal of uncertainty. This is a problem especially in Flanders. That is not an immediate claim that you created that problem. The point is that the Flemish government has taken a clear position on the Flemish OCMWFs, which will have to be integrated by 2019. Because we remain unclear about what is happening with federal legislation, this is really problematic for the Flemish OCMWFs. I would therefore like to invite you to have a good discussion with the Flemish Minister, who is responsible for this matter, as well as with her cabinet. If by the summer of this year the Flemish OMCWFs really don't know which direction it is heading, then it becomes simply impossible for those OCWMs to draw up a route by 2019. That way, that institution will be undermined, and I can't live with it. That is why I really hope that you will be able to have a quick exchange of views with the Flemish Government in order to clarify this. In the end, this body is the final safety net of our social system. This needs to be clarified, apart from all the elderly care tasks that the OMCW will take on. I also note that there is still no clarity as to whether or not this should be done by a two-thirds majority. If there is any doubt about the crucial question, we know that lawyers sometimes disagree, then I think it is best to look for a general basis for implementing this reform. I really invite you to speak to the Flemish colleagues and to clarify this to the Flemish OCMWFs, because it is unbearable for them and for their organisation in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u30	I note that the opposition and some of the majority are largely in agreement that it is a good thing that this is being thoroughly examined but that this has been going on for a long time and that it needs to be clarified. My naughtiest I would dare suggest that Flanders has decided too quickly. That, of course, is not your responsibility. Flanders has also changed its own coalition agreement, because the center cities could first sail their own course but suddenly it has been unilaterally decided that they must also integrate. My naughtiest I would therefore dare suggest that Flanders knows very well what it is doing. My goodness, I assume that what you say is true and that this needs to be investigated legally. I look forward to getting there fast. Indeed, as Mr Lachaert also says, it is necessary to clarify what course will be followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u31	Of course, like my fellow Members, I am in favour of speedy clarity. Why am I pleading for that? OCMWs are dealing with poor people, with the integration of people, and especially with older people. I now notice that the lack of clarity about the future of the OCMWFs is a huge brake on their development and on the taking of initiatives, while we are faced with a strong ageing, or notification, of the population. We must, of course, continue to fight against poverty, which is increasing, and we must continue to promote the integration of people into our society. In short, I hope that there will be clarity within six months, so that there will be certainty independently of the decision and that the OMCWs can continue to do good work, at the service of the most vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u32	Colleagues, if we are all disciplined and respect speaking times, the questions will be completed before 11.30 a.m., when the minister must go to the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u33	Madam President, Minister, I apologize for my delay due to an accident on the highway. It doesn't happen every day, but almost. On 9 February 2015, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) warned, via a press release, of the presence of foot-and-mouth disease at the gates of the European Union. FAO also reported that it had increased its level of vigilance in the Balkan region to prevent the spread of the disease. Indeed, the Balkan region is geographically located between two areas (southern and eastern) with cases of foot-and-mouth disease and also includes EU member countries. The virus is circulating mainly in Africa, the Middle East, Eurasia and South America. In 2011, a case of foot-and-mouth disease had been discovered in Bulgaria, close to the Turkish border. In response to this emergency, FAO is currently assisting these countries in setting up contingency plans, in Bulgaria and also in Serbia. This situation is a matter of concern. Should we recall the epidemic that severely affected the United Kingdom in 2001, as well as France and the Netherlands? This led to the slaughter of millions of animals and financial losses amounting to tens of billions. This disease, if it reaches European territory, will have an impact on our farmers but also on our trade in general. As a reminder, in 2001, Argentina had banned the import of Belgian chocolate, although no homes had been declared in Belgium and there was no cause-and-effect relationship. Minister, what is the status of the situation? What preventive measures can be taken in Belgium? What about the consultation between the Member States of the European Union on the subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u34	Madam President, honourable Member, since the end of preventive vaccination of cattle in the early 1990s, foot-and-mouth disease has been a permanent threat to ruminants and pigs in the European Union. Although our continent has only been confronted with this disease a few times in recent decades, new introductions of this disease are still to be feared. Indeed, foot-and-mouth disease is an epidemic disease that spreads easily not only because of the movement of infected animals, but also by animal products such as milk or meat or contaminated material. At the global level, this disease is, alas, widespread in Asia and Africa. Closer to home, in Turkey, the Middle East and North Africa, the situation has been worrying for several years, following the introduction of new serotypes of this disease in these countries. In Belgium, as in the other Member States of the European Union, the prevention and control of foot-and-mouth disease is based on the general approach established at European level. Thus, in the event of the disease being introduced, it is planned to clean up the farms affected and to define areas of control in which strict measures are applied for the movement of animals and animal products and intensive monitoring of sensitive species. In the event of a worsening situation, an emergency vaccination could be carried out to support the fight. To this end, the European Commission has an important antigen bank which would allow for the rapid vaccination of susceptible animals against the particular serotypes involved in the disease, anywhere in the European Union. At Belgian level, AFSCA also has an antigen bank that is an important complement and can be useful in addition to what the European bank has, although it is more limited in number of doses and serotypes. In order to avoid new introductions into the European Union, for more than 10 years now, it has been forbidden to use kitchen waste, boats and aircraft to feed animals on farms. Imports of ruminants and pigs from infected third countries are strictly prohibited. All over Europe, foot-and-mouth disease is a notifiable disease. Thus, in Belgium, each holder or veterinarian who observes clinical symptoms indicating the disease and each laboratory that diagnoses its occurrence must immediately report suspicion to AFSCA. As required by European legislation, the AFSCA has a control plan to enable rapid and effective intervention in case of suspicion or confirmation of the disease. Similarly, the Agency shall organise simulation exercises, where appropriate in collaboration with the sectors concerned, to increase vigilance towards this disease. There is also regular communication with stakeholders, veterinarians, farmers and the general public on the international situation and the risks associated with the development of the disease. foot-and-mouth disease is therefore a disease that threatens all the Member States of the European Union. They work together and work closely together. In the monthly meetings of veterinary experts representing the Member States, foot-and-mouth disease is regularly included in the agenda. On these occasions, information on the world situation and around the European Union is disseminated and discussed. In addition, organised simulation exercises for this disease are often the subject of a cross-border dimension, i.e. they are organised simultaneously in several neighbouring countries. In order to improve the situation in neighbouring countries and to avoid the introduction into the European Union, the Member States of the European Union are strongly committed at international level to the fight against foot-and-mouth disease in Europe and within the framework of the structures set up within the FAO. The European Union and the FAO partner structures are trying to reduce the risk of introduction, in particular by improving the situation on the land of origin in Turkey, North Africa, the Near East and the Caucasus. This committee also organises training of experts from the Member States in order to improve the expertise of veterinary services in the fight against this disease. Of course, in some subregions of some countries socio-political instability is obviously not a facilitator.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u35	Minister, thank you. I see that significant attention is being paid to this problem. It is interesting to know that all these vaccine stocks exist at European level and in Belgium and that preventive measures are being set up. Moreover, the existing coordination at European and global level to try to contain the disease is reassuring.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u36	Minister, the mission of the Food Agency is, among other things, to ensure the safety of the food chain and the quality of our food, in order to protect the health of humans, animals and plants. As a result, AFSCA is responsible for assessing and managing risks that may affect the health of consumers, animals and plants. The Agency's four main areas of responsibility are, therefore, food safety, animal diseases, plant diseases and the control of the welfare of farm animals. Since its creation, several business plans have followed each other. In practice, they formalize, for a period of three years, projections of the evolution of the AFSCA. The last plan covered the period 2012-2014. Minister, I would like to take stock with you of this matter. In fact, within the agricultural sector, controls are not always well perceived – although it is normal to do so. In order to remedy this, it seems to me essential to develop a policy of information and exchange as optimal as possible with the sector. In practice, at European level, there is a distinction between planned (e.g. for animal identification) and unplanned (e.g. for plant (sanitary) premises). From a practical point of view, the AFSCA consolidates the controls, so that it is no longer possible to plan them. To that end, I would have liked to hear from you about their duration. In practice, it must be noted that agricultural holdings are subject to unannounced controls. This has, of course, an impact on the management and professional organisation of a farmer's day. It is not always easy for him to interrupt his activity for several hours. What exactly is the situation with regard to the application of these unplanned controls? What is their average duration? It would seem that the farmer has the opportunity to stop control, but this right is not known in the sector – or, in any case, very little. For small structures, the duration of the checks is not excessive, but for larger farms they can last several hours. Therefore, can no longer support the possibility for a farmer to interrupt a check in order to enable him to carry out his work? I am thinking in particular of livestock farms. What avenues do you recommend to bring the agricultural world closer to AFSCA? What about the business plan? A new document will soon be submitted at your signature; what are the guidelines?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u37	Member, the inspection provided for in the AFSCA control plan is planned on farms every eight years and every twelve years if they have a validated self-monitoring system. This frequency is defined in the AFSCA business plan and is available on its website. It does not take into account unplanned checks resulting from a complaint, follow-up of non-compliance, checks carried out at the request of the operator himself or other specific circumstances. Since 2012, the average duration of controls in the primary production sector in Wallonia has increased from 109.2 to 97.5 minutes. Of course, account must be taken of the great diversity of farms and of the situations justifying control time ranging from one hour to sometimes one day. So here we are talking about an average visit of one hour and thirty, every eight to twelve years for planned checks. The EU Regulation requires that official controls be carried out without notice, except in cases such as audits or where further checks are carried out at the request of operators. Aware of the difficulty for operators in the food chain to change their programme of work and activity without notice to attend the monitoring of their establishment, the Agency published in July 2011 a memorandum of service allowing, in compliance with the rules, a better organisation of the work of the controlled operators. In concrete terms, this note provides that companies with no more than two workers have the possibility to announce all or part of a control requiring the presence of the person in charge for more than four hours. However, notice may not exceed 48 hours. However, some controls can never be announced, one imagines it. They concern the possession or use of medicines, plant protection products, hormones or cases where fraud is suspected, or even where there are already strong indications of fraud. On the other hand, the continued presence of the operator is generally not indispensable in the case of long-term inspections, even if one can imagine that the person wishes to remain there. This is almost exclusively a control of the identification of bovine animals. It is therefore entirely accepted that a farmer asks, for example during a routine inspection of more than one morning, that the continuation of the inspection be postponed to the next day or the next day. This is understandable in the context of farm life. The business plan 2015-2017 is in the process of being finalized. It has been submitted for my signature and I am currently reading it in depth. It provides for the maintenance of the main tasks of the AFSCA, the continuity of the strategy with at the centre the protection of consumers and operators wishing to comply with the rules, as well as the thoughtful evolution towards an even better organisation, notwithstanding and taking into account a fiscally tense context. The AFSCA will continue to carry out, as appropriate, inspection and analysis programmes based on a risk analysis, but with accompanying measures aimed at high-level quality controls and a maximum number of operators with good results. Administrative simplification and attention to the specificity of trades, self-employed, micro-enterprises, SMEs and the availability of all the instruments necessary for good communication are also part of this policy. Of course, consultation with all stakeholders, full transparency of operation through public reporting using food safety, animal health and plant health barometers as global indicators, and continued significant export efforts will remain key points. Continuity is also ensured in terms of delegation of tasks to third parties. Institutions such as CERVA, DGS and Arsia remain crucial partners as well as mission managers. I recalled in the other question: the AFSCA obviously aims to continue its excellent collaboration with veterinary practitioners who are on the front line.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u38	Minister, thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer. I had done the analysis on the planned or unforeseen control by comparing with other Member States. I'm going to continue this work. As you said, I invite you to analyze the business plan carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u39	Madam President, Minister, a new system of certification of knowledge relating to the sale, advice and use of plant protection products will soon apply. This system will enter into force definitively from 25 November this year. This is phytolicence, a certificate issued by the federal government to ensure that both the professional user and the distributor or advisor handle plant protection products and adjuvant properly. The introduction of phytolicence follows the entry into force of Directive 2009/128 on the use of pesticides compatible with sustainable development. The Royal Decree of 19 March 2013, in order to achieve a sustainable use of plant protection products (PPPs), lays down, in particular, the conditions for the application, grant and renewal of plant protection products. This will be valid for six years and may be renewed an unlimited number of times, provided that the holder can provide proof that he has maintained his knowledge of the various products through the follow-up of training activities (continuing training). In this area, competences are divided between the different levels of power. The federal government has jurisdiction over all matters relating to the granting, suspension, withdrawal and administrative management of the system. The Wallonia Brussels Federation organises basic training in the framework of classical education and social promotion. Wallonia, for its part, organises basic training in non-formal education in alternance and continuing training. In short, the application of this file is quite complex. Mr Minister, very concretely, questions arise from the sector concerned as to the controls carried out in connection with the use, distribution and advice of PPPs. Indeed, it would appear that sanctions for infringements are not clearly defined. What exactly is the situation? Is there a deterioration in terms of sanction? What are the specific measures that follow an infractional finding prepared by the AFSCA? Is there a risk of phytolicence being removed? Is it conceivable that experience could be valued, if only in part, in terms of training? Thus, returning a person who has been in this profession for years to school for about ten hours each year is complicated. I would have liked to know if any solutions had been considered in relation to this specific point.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u40	Madam President, Mrs Cassart, the establishment of the system of granting plant licences is indeed complex in view of the shared competences on the subject, but is achieved serenely through effective coordination between the different levels of power. Thus, nearly 50,000 phytolicences have already been issued to date. The system will finally enter into force on 25 November 2015. As regards penalties for infringements, the Royal Decree of March 2013 provides that my administration may either withdraw the plant licence or give a warning to the owner of the plant licence where there is an indication that the holder does not comply with at least one of the obligations laid down in the regulations referred to in that Decree. The regulations in force therefore provide for a gradation in the sanctions on the basis of relevant information issued by the competent supervisory authority. In addition, a possible withdrawal will come into force after two months knowing that if, in the meantime, it turns out that the reason for the withdrawal has disappeared, the decision to withdraw may then be annulled. On the other hand, in the event of serious public health or environmental problems, my administration may suspend phytolicence and do so, if necessary, immediately. An appeal against withdrawal or suspension may be lodged with the Committee for the Accreditation of Plant Protection Products. The implementation of this system of control and sanctions has yet to be discussed and developed by the various services concerned of the AFSCA and the SPF Public Health, but will of course take into account the criterion of proportionality in the sanctions. As far as the experiment is concerned, it may be valued by a plant licence requested during the transitional period, i.e. before 31 August 2015. For example, a farmer with a two-year experience or an adequate self-control system may be eligible for phytolicence for professional use. I stress that most professional sellers and users of plant protection products with the necessary experience will have obtained phytolicence before the end of the transitional period. After that date, only recognized formations may be valued for the application or extension of plantlicence. Indeed, follow-up training will be necessary in order to maintain or increase the knowledge required for the sustainable use of plant protection products. It should be noted that in drafting the relevant legislation, my predecessor had also been very careful to allow the most practical solutions possible to achieve the desired objectives and had done so in consultation with stakeholders.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u41	Madam Chair, I thank the Minister for the comprehensiveness of his response. I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u42	Madam President, Minister, the OCMW of Antwerp approved a new version of its mission in January 2015. It used to be: "The OMCW of Antwerp guarantees social fundamental rights for everyone who normally resides on its territory, in a sustainable way, while respecting existing regulations. They are a first step towards full integration, which is necessary and meaningful for both individuals and society. This passage was amended as follows in January 2015:.Our organisation contributes to the realization of the fundamental social rights of everyone who usually resides in the territory of the city of Antwerp. We strive for full social integration and increased social mobility, where the active participation of the individual in society is paramount. In other words, the OMCW of Antwerp no longer guarantees the fundamental social rights of everyone on its territory. However, both the organic law on OCMWs and the RMI law clearly states that it is the mission of an OCMW to ensure a service, with the aim of guaranteeing human dignity. The OMCW therefore has the final responsibility according to the law. What is your view of this change, Minister? Does the OMCW of Antwerp not go against the above-mentioned legislation with that provision? Is the modification of his mission legally correct in your view?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u43	Madam President, Mrs Willaert, the OCMWFs must of course comply with the organic law of 8 July 1976 on OCMWFs and the law of 26 May 2002 on the right to social integration. Article 1 of the Organic Law of 8 July 1976 on OCMW's provides that each person is entitled to social services. The purpose of the provision is to give everyone the opportunity to live a life that meets human dignity. Article 2 of the 2002 Law on the Right to Social Integration provides that every person has the right to social integration. This right may consist, under the conditions laid down in the above-mentioned law, of an employment and/or a living wage, which may or may not be accompanied by an individualised project for social integration. The OMCWs have the mandate to ensure that right. In short, the Act of 1976 and the Law of 2002 guarantee subjective rights to the OCMW's. The definition of the mandate of an OMCW should be without prejudice to those provisions. The inspection services of my administration ensure compliance with the 1976 law and the 2002 law. When an OCMW fails to comply with its legal obligations, it is ultimately the courts and courts that can restore the rights of the persons.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u44	Mr Minister, I suppose you are suggesting that in this case, if the change were not correct, it would be up to the court to rectify or raise the matter. I don't hear a direct judgment from you. There are other words in the mission. It is quite different from the wording in the articles you mentioned, isn't it? Article 1 and Article 57 of the 1976 Law and Article 2 of the 2002 Law state very clearly each time that insurance companies are insured. I understand that a complaint has already been lodged in Antwerp against the change in the mission. I thought your inspection services could also make an analysis of such cases and, if necessary, call on the OCMW to make adjustments. I know that you do this regularly and that your inspection services serve that purpose. If the OMCW does not act on this, it may have repercussions for, for example, the subsidy of that OMCW that does not comply with the law. So you and your inspection services do have tools to check this and it is not just the court.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u45	Madam President, Minister, this question concerns the right to benefits limited by the previous government to three years or three years after the age of 30, depending on the family situation. Their effects are noticeable from 1 January of this year. According to the first figures, it would be 16 368 unemployed who would lose their entitlement to an integration allowance on 1 January 2015. There is a small outflow of labour which leads to 15 877 people. In February, you said that only 3 795 young people came to the OMCW. You have based yourself on a question from the big cities. You also indicated that you would have new data in March. Hence my question. In the meantime, do you have any more news on the number of grants granted by OCMW to young people who have ceased the integration allowance? Are there any additional data available on this group? After all, it is useful that we know how this group is composed. What is the distribution within this group in terms of level of education? What's their average age? How many young people under 25 are they talking about? How many plus 25-year-olds are there? These are interesting data which the OMCWs should allow to conduct a policy in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u46	Madam President, Minister, I simply endorse this question. What are the latest figures on the reduction in the number of beneficiaries of an integration allowance? What are the figures for the number of people now supported by the OMCW? You have mentioned a figure of 3 795 in the past. Do you have any new numbers? Do you have any more information about this group in terms of age?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the figures for the RVA to which you refer are the same ones I have at my disposal. As far as the flow to the OCMWFs is concerned, I do have new data. I have again questioned the five major cities about the number of people who, as a result of the reduction in the eligibility allowance, have reached the OMCW and have received a living wage, as well as the number of applications on which a decision has yet to be taken. Based on these figures relating to the period up to 23 February 2015, we can currently estimate for the whole country 7 927 people who have lost the right to the integration allowance and will receive a living wage. I should like to make it clear that it is about the figures of the OCMW's of the cities that have a different problem than the small municipalities. So I can only stress that this is an estimate. As far as the age of these persons is concerned, according to the figures of the RVA, young people are less represented. Forty percent of people are between 30 and 40 years old, 25 percent are between 40 and 50 years old. I do not have official data on the composition of the group that has passed to the OCMWFs for a living wage, but informal contacts with the OCMWFs seem to confirm that the proportion of young people is small.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u48	I would like to receive the final figures quickly, because I think there is a difference between the big cities and the small ones. In our city with 30 000 inhabitants, we do not have any to date. That is why it is important to get the right figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u49	The figures you have now will certainly not be an understatement but rather an overestimate. I also look forward to the final figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic110x.u50	Questions No 2384 by Mrs Renate Hufkens, No 1996 by Mr Daniel Senesael, No 2090 by Mrs Rita Gantois and No 2249 by Mrs Griet Smaers are withdrawn from the agenda since their postponement has not been requested.
