ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic175x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we give that Minister an opportunity to give an introduction. I will then give the floor to the questioners to reply in the order in which the questions were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic175x.u2	Mr President, I will try to answer the various questions in my introduction, as well as to give an update on the current situation. As you know, the situation in Burundi has fundamentally changed following the failed coup attempt last week. This coup attempt was led by General Godefroid Niyombare, the former Chief of Staff who had been left out by President Nkurunziza a few years ago, before briefly returning to the forefront as head of the intelligence services, the SNR. Mr Niyombare remained for only three months in the latter position; the publication in the press of an internal note to the SNR highlighting the dangers of Mr Nkurunziza's candidacy for a third term led to a further dismissal. Niyombare was close to the CNDD-FDD slingers and thought he had enough support in the army to overthrow the president. Obviously, his information was not perfect or was in any case incomplete. The putsch started on Wednesday was already finished on Friday. Seventeen putschists were arrested, including Cyrille Ndayirukiye, Mr. Niyombare's right-hand man. This one's gone. We do not have any specific information on his fate at that time. In any case, we call for the treatment of arrested putschists in accordance with judicial procedures and human rights. According to their lawyers, they were subjected to ill-treatment during interrogation. As for President Nkurunziza, he was then at a summit of the East African community in Tanzania, which should be an opportunity for the countries of the region to convey messages to the Burundian President, as well as to the opposition that was also present. Despite the temporary closure of the airspace, the president was finally able to return to Bujumbura but he still did not express himself in detail about the attempted coup d'état. He spoke but did not speak in detail about the situation related to the coup. After the events of the last few days, it is necessary to put the electoral process back on track, but a postponement seems indispensable to me. In accordance with constitutional rules, the Burundian authorities have just announced a ten-day postponement of the parliamentary elections. They were scheduled for 26 May and would now take place on 5 June. This postponement, decided without consultation, seems to us to be insufficient for free and peaceful elections to be held by then. The climate must calm down, dialogue must resume and the campaign for these elections must really begin. Moreover, the events of recent weeks have obviously delayed the deployment of international observers to the country. International observation, particularly European, is still possible, but the political and security conditions must be met. Another source of concern is freedom of the press. Radios were the main targets of the fighting. The premises of the independent radio stations, including the RPA, were set on fire. The Iwacu newspaper has suspended its activities but has just announced its reopening. Freedom of the press must be restored at this crucial time for Burundi. Belgium is all the more involved in this matter as it has supported independent radio stations in Burundi and the newspaper Iwacu in the past. We will explore ways to help these media outlets resume their activities as soon as possible. I have no indication so far of massive repression against opponents or human rights defenders, but many of them are under control and have been threatened verbally, creating a climate of intimidation. Some have left the country like Bob Rugurika, who is now in Rwanda. These threats are intolerable and Belgium is prepared to impose individual sanctions on anyone who is guilty of violence in the electoral process. Some of you seem not to have always grasped our position on President Nkurunziza's possible third term. It is obvious that Belgium is opposed to this because this third mandate is not in line with the Arusha agreement, which is for us the basis of Burundi's reconciliation and democracy. Simply, it seemed to us that discreet diplomacy was more likely to succeed. At the beginning of January, when I visited Burundi with my colleague Alexander De Croo, we were very clear about this in a face-to-face meeting with the President. This message was then repeated through different channels. I have seen quite recently that some great powers have publicly called on the President to reconsider his decision, but you will see, like me, that this has not had much more effect than the steps we have taken. However, diplomatic efforts are continuing to put pressure on the President. At the summit of the ABC, disturbed by the coup d'état, the acceptance of the third mandate was evoked in exchange for certain guarantees: no fourth mandate, freedom of the press, greater control over the militia, in particular the Imbonerakure, the free elections. This solution is acceptable only if it is the subject of a broad consensus including the majority, the opposition and civil society, which is clearly not the case in Burundi. In any case, if Mr Nkurunziza goes to the end of his candidacy, it is all the more important that the parliamentary elections are free so that there is pluralism and therefore a certain counterweight in Parliament. As far as Belgium is concerned, we have taken a number of measures following the announcement of Mr Nkurunziza's candidacy and in view of the violence, intimidation and lack of respect for the rights of the opposition, freedom of the press and freedom to demonstrate. We, the Minister for Cooperation and myself, have taken the decision to suspend the payment of the second tranche of our support for the elections, as well as the plan to professionalize the police. Our Swiss and Dutch colleagues have taken similar steps. Further steps could be taken in our cooperation. If the situation worsened, we could, for example, redirect our aid to forms other than direct cooperation with the government. The United States is talking about sanctions through international financial institutions, but the Burundian population is likely to suffer the direct consequences. The conclusions of the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union adopted this week refer to a possible Article 96 procedure which could lead to a total or partial suspension of the Cotonou Agreement with Burundi. The individual sanctions remain, and we are looking at the possibility of them. They could apply to perpetrators of violence, whose names will not be too difficult for us to obtain. In particular, we monitor the behaviour of militias, including the Imbonerakure. The United States is in the process of developing a list of potential targets. Possible measures include the freezing of bank assets and travel bans. Judicial proceedings could also be initiated. The Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court, Ms. Bensouda, made a statement on 8 May in which she stated that she was closely following the situation and would not hesitate to open a preliminary investigation if the circumstances so required. As far as the results of our police project are concerned, I would like to refer you to the Minister for Cooperation, since it is his services that are in charge of the matter. For my part, I regret that the Belgian observers of our federal police were not allowed to visit the field during the main demonstrations. They could have independently monitored the conduct of the police. Unfortunately, there were indeed blunders, and according to our information, at least eleven demonstrators were killed by police fire when she was not in a situation of self-defence. That is why we decided in part to suspend the "police" project. I note, however, that overall, the Burundian police have made an effort to use non-lethal means, such as tear gas grenades or self-pumps in their management of demonstrations. This does not excuse the live shooting of demonstrators. As far as the European Union is concerned, you may have been able to read the conclusions of the Foreign Affairs Council on Monday, which we ourselves asked for and in which we actively participated. We regularly consult with the other Member States at European level to develop a common position, for example during discussions in the Council of Ministers or discussions between the European postal heads in Bujumbura. There are different approaches to the situation in Burundi between Member States, but thanks to our regular bilateral and multilateral contacts, a consensual agreement is always within reach, including with the United States, which shows a strong commitment to the Burundian crisis. I have noticed that in their communiqués, like the European Union, the United States used the same words as Belgium, among other things the demand not to use force, certainly not the government, and the demand for dialogue in the spirit of the Arusha agreements. There's been an intense diplomatic activity on Burundi for a few weeks. Under the auspices of Said Djinnit, the UN Special Envoy for the Great Lakes Region, negotiations were launched between the Burundian authorities and the opposition. Dialogue is difficult for the time being, and the authorities are prepared to make a number of concessions, provided that the events stop, but that is currently unacceptable to the opposition. I would like to encourage the role of Said Djinnit here and underline his position; the whole of the European Union has done so. We'll try to help. Belgium also has a special envoy for the Great Lakes and he was present in Tanzania at the meeting with the various leaders from the region. We will try to launch another call for dialogue. Regional organizations are very involved. The summit of the East African Community on 13 May 2015 was proof of this. It was able to adopt conclusions despite the circumstances. They call for free elections in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the Arusha agreements. Our special envoy for the Great Lakes was attending this Summit. The East African Community will remain involved in the Burundi issue and another summit is expected to follow soon. The International Conference on the Great Lakes Region (ICRL) has also recently held a summit on Burundi in Luanda. Its conclusions are quite similar to those of the East African Community. The African Union is also very active. She called for an end to the violence, for the widest possible dialogue between political actors, for respect for the Arusha agreement and for a slight postponement of the elections. The African Union had also taken an excellent initiative to send human rights observers to Burundi. They will have a fundamental task in the current context and will strengthen the observers of the United Nations Human Rights Office already deployed in Burundi. I also welcome the sending by the African Union of two high-ranking envoys, former Togolese Prime Minister Edem Kodjo and former Senegalese Foreign Minister Ibrahima Fall. Of course, the situation in Burundi has regional repercussions. I am thinking above all of the impact on the electoral process in the DRC. The political climate is already very tense. Demonstrations in January were severely repressed with a very heavy record. More recently, civil society activists have been arrested during peaceful demonstrations and meetings. Freedom of the press has been abused. There are many similarities with Burundi. We can imagine that President Kabila is also following the situation in Burundi closely. When we talk about regional consequences, we must certainly also look at the problem of refugees. According to UNHCR, some 100 000 Burundians have already fled abroad. In Rwanda there are already more than 25 000 Burundian refugees, probably more since the coup, with understandable concerns in Kigali. This is a real problem for the stability of the region. Fortunately, international organisations, such as UNHCR or the World Food Programme, have already made the necessary preparations to cope with a possible crisis. As far as our compatriots are concerned, we have taken all the necessary measures. Our embassy has drawn up a crisis plan, in collaboration with the FPS Foreign Affairs and Defense. In the event of an evacuation, our services and our soldiers will work in coordination with their French colleagues. Our embassy uses a system to notify our countrymen by SMS or by radio communication when there are problems. We have adapted the travel notice to advise against any travel to Burundi. We have not decided to evacuate the 770 Belgian nationals on our crisis plan, because the violent events have been brief and the calm has now returned to much of Burundi and to the centre of Bujumbura, although many neighbourhoods still remain particularly agitated in the context of demonstrations and reactions by the police. Moreover, Belgians and other expatriates were not targeted by the protagonists of these various clashes. The instructions were to stay at home and exercise the utmost caution. If the crisis had lasted, we would certainly have sent reinforcements for our embassy. We had already done so at first, but it was not necessary to renew the operation. With regard to the protection of buildings and personnel, 10 military personnel are currently present. However, the premises of our embassy were not targeted during the events. By counting the foreign nationals we are responsible for, our embassy will have to manage the evacuation of more than 1,600 people in the event of a crisis. We are aware of the difficult conditions under which Burundian human rights defenders work and we are not minimizing the threats to them, even if we are not aware of arrests in the past few days. Belgium supports Burundian civil society morally and financially. The Minister for Cooperation and I met her very broadly during our joint visit to Burundi in January. However, a reception at the embassy of activists who feel threatened raises a number of complex issues, both political-legal and practical. The place is counted in the premises of our embassy, which is not really intended for this use. But we have already had the opportunity to respond to a number of requests, including sometimes at the request of neighbouring European countries. In view of all these problems, we can only take such action in an exceptional manner. Finally, for obvious reasons, you will understand that it is not appropriate to communicate in detail about the initiatives taken with respect to individuals who address our embassy. In conclusion, I would like to say that, since the beginning, the message to the President of Burundi has been very clear. In recent months, we have said that a possible third candidacy could cause unrest and difficulties in Burundi. Now it's proven and the situation in the country is obvious. The second element is that, given the situation in recent days, one can only condemn, like the African Union, the United Nations Security Council and the European Union, an attempt to seize power by force, the coup d'état that was envisaged. It is normal that the perpetrators of this coup should be prosecuted. We call, like other actors on the international scene, on the Burundian authority to exercise restraint, that there should be no violence and certainly no excessive violence against those who participated in the coup d'état, and that there should then be fair trials that respect human rights. In the same way, we are calling for extreme restraint in the management of events. A number of serious incidents occurred in the use of live ammunition by the police. It is essential that the Burundian authorities should refrain from doing so. Above all, we call for a return to dialogue. There are several possibilities. It is clear that the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Said Djinnit, plays a leading role in this case. We can try to accompany the process. The whole thing is to return to a capacity for dialogue in the spirit of the Arusha agreements. If we want to move towards an electoral process – I was one of the first to say so in the international community – a postponement of the elections must take place, both on 26 May and the presidential elections at the end of June in order to prepare for elections in a peaceful, transparent environment where freedom of expression is possible. However, the destruction of a number of media has made this ability to express itself particularly difficult during the electoral campaign. Obviously, the situation in Burundi is already particularly complex, but it leads to reflections and possible consequences on the whole region, on the political level with regard to refugees and on migration pressure more broadly. What is happening today in the Mediterranean through Libya is not only due to the conflicts in Syria and Iraq, but also to the conflicts in Africa. Situations such as this one in Central Africa can still add to the pressure in the region. In any case, I am pleased that we have managed to mobilise the European Union by obtaining conclusions from the Foreign Affairs Council this week, as we have been able to obtain through France that the Security Council also expresses itself on the subject. I draw attention exactly in the same terms as those used by Belgium when we reacted to both the candidacy and the attempted coup d'état.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic175x.u3	Mr Minister, Mr Luykx will have to leave soon and ask if he could be the first to replicate. Can the Members of this House agree to that? [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic175x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for allowing me to replicate briefly. After all, I have to receive a delegation from Barcelona in a moment. Thank you, Minister, for your detailed explanation. I'm satisfied with your answers. You've already mowed a lot of grass at the President's feet. I also put questions to your colleague De Croo in plenary last week, and I would like to congratulate him and you on the steps that have already been taken. There was a good approach and many substantive sanctions were imposed, such as suspending cooperation on the training of police officers, suspending the financial contribution to the elections, etc. I am very pleased that you are making it clear today that Belgium does not approve of a third mandate and that this is indeed the point final of a good line that has been set out. However, I have three brief questions. Firstly, as regards our compatriots on the ground, you say that a crisis plan has been drawn up and that people can be notified by text message. Radio will not always be possible, because there are a lot of problems in this area. A number of other countries have already called on their compatriots to return. A lot of Belgians are doing this on their own today. What are the criteria for deciding that it is time to bring them back and put the crisis plan into effect? What arguments do you have to give the green light? Secondly, with regard to the postponement of the elections, the President has now postponed the elections himself by one week and thus responds to the question. However, what is a week in the current crisis? It remains to be seen what further developments will be on the ground. A lot of opponents are hiding. Are there gonna be revenge? In short, the atmosphere remains tense. So maybe a week isn't enough. Would it be a good idea for you to postpone the elections in relation to the suspended financial contribution, which is still pending? The elections need to be postponed. Belgium could link the question for postponement sine, as President Zuma says, without running the risk of postponing the elections to jubilee, with the payment of the remaining contribution. Thirdly, together with my fellow Members in the Chamber, we have called for the support of an observation mission. Funds have been made available to support electoral observation in Burundi. Almost EUR 300 000 was made available for this purpose. It now appears that the Burundian NGOs designated for this purpose are suspending their activities because their safety cannot be guaranteed. What does that mean for the resources available? Will they or will they not be recovered? How can we allow observation for these important elections, because Belgium must continue to follow the matter closely?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic175x.u5	Mr President, Minister, thank you for all the clarifications you have given us. They complement the discussion we had in plenary. The situation in Burundi is changing from day to day, even from hour to hour. I would like to welcome the reaction of Belgian diplomacy following the coup d'état. It was very clear, clear and precise. The opposition to the third mandate was clearly stated. That's what I blamed earlier. You talked about discreet diplomacy. Other countries have done so. Even if it has been useless, this opposition has the merit of adopting a clear position. A very strong demand was expressed by the Burundians, both there and here. The reaction of Belgian diplomacy was therefore very positive. It is also known that municipal and legislative elections are postponed for a few days. The election campaign will end on 2 June. The elections will be held on 5 June. I just saw the decree signed by the president. He will speak this evening live on the national television channel. Developments may still follow. This postponement of the elections is, as you have said – and I share many of the comments you have made – a postponing of the front. It is well known that in the current situation, in the context of the country, the holding of inclusive, transparent and democratic elections in such a short period of time is an impossible task. All media, with the exception of "public" media close to power, are no longer operational. Most of them were burned during the coup. Rehabilitating them may take time. However, the decision has fallen. What will be Belgium's position? This is a postponement, but the decree does not yet refer to the postponement of the presidential elections. How will Belgian diplomacy react? What are the means of pressure to say that this postponement is not enough? There must be a call for a postponement of the presidential elections until the situation has improved and conditions for human rights and freedom of the press are restored. How are you going to press for change? Like you, I am convinced that this goes through the Belgian level but also through the European level and even through the international level. I do not know whether Europe has already reacted to this pseudo-report. What will be the attitude towards election observation missions? The European Union has also decided to suspend observer missions. An AWEPA observation mission was scheduled to depart on Sunday, but it was necessarily postponed. How is this going to happen? Will the European Union send its observation mission for the parliamentary elections? What attitude will Belgium have to adopt? Budgets were provided by AWEPA to observe parliamentary and local elections. Nothing was planned so far for the presidents. What is your position on this? If we remain in the current pattern, or if we are able to convince for a postponement, would it be possible to provide for the financing of a mission within the Belgian framework of the AWEPA for the observation of the presidential elections? The press is in a deplorable state. What steps could be taken to reinvigorate it? The first thing we need to put in place is the return to individual freedoms in order to allow opponents to explain themselves. The role of the press is central. Some are trying to survive anyway. The international media on the spot are able to tell a whole series of things. That would be worth thinking about. According to the contacts I had, it appears that Reporters Without Borders could be asked to allow for a grouping of all media in Burundi. By helping this organization, it could play this role of dome and media work. It's a way of thinking. If the power decides to stay on schedule as planned, this dome should be quickly put in place. As far as the security of our citizens is concerned, ten military personnel were sent there for the protection of our citizens. Seven to eight hundred people are on site in conditions that are not always obvious. They are located in places that are not always accessible, even if the majority are in Bujumbura. Has it been envisaged to send a military supplement, as France did yesterday with the dispatch of some gendarmes, to secure our compatriots and by limiting the action of our military to the protection of our compatriots? Has this been discussed at European level? You mentioned some possible partnerships with France in case of evacuation. Was this discussed at your Council on Monday? Is that possible? Finally, I agree with you. I think that assistance for the organisation of elections should be blocked until they were organised under normal conditions. Blocking police-related assistance is a good thing. I am reassured to hear from you that first and foremost we must avoid taking measures that would prevent direct aid to the population. If the situation were to continue, special attention would have to be paid to the population. I said that during my speech on Thursday. We must do so now, during the electoral process and especially after, regardless of the outcome of the elections. With regard to internally displaced persons, these are several thousand people, either in the DRC or in the countries affecting Burundi. Are there any requests from these countries for logistical or financial assistance? We can provide support in a variety of ways. We must pay attention to this and we cannot leave in need all those people who have had to leave their country suddenly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic175x.u6	Mr President, Minister, in view of the changes in the situation in Burundi over the last few days, my question has become obsolete and I shall adapt it a little in the light of this debate. The title was the upcoming crisis in Burundi, which will improve the announcement of the crisis that has already taken place in Burundi. Mr Minister, you have already anticipated and answered a lot of questions. If I understand correctly, there is now at last a clear statement by the government that it does reject a third mandate from President Nkurunziza. I can only welcome the fact that we are speaking clearly on this issue. On this basis, I have a number of additional questions, which Mr Luykx has not yet asked, and which relate more to human rights. Firstly, does the federal government provide for measures on the ground to defend these human rights defenders? Are we also going to take concrete action in this area or not? If so, can you give examples of this? Secondly, we must also, of course, consider the future of Burundi and, by extension, the entire region. Has international consideration been given to the role that certain African political leaders can play after their democratic term of office? If so, has this been discussed at international level? If so, what are the results? If not, could this perhaps be a point that you can raise in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic175x.u7	Mr President, I would like to give the floor to my colleague, Mr Miller, who will introduce the subject and then I will speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic175x.u8	Mr President, I would like to share some thoughts with you on behalf of our group. We welcome the points that you highlighted during your introduction, which, for our political formation, has three main lines of action. First, we condemn, in Burundi as well as in the DRC or Rwanda, any takeover of power by military, legal or artificial authorities that interrupt an electoral process or dismiss a Head of State. The defence of democracy implies that we support the elected authorities, inclusive and transparent electoral processes, democratic debates where ethnic or denominational dimensions are not used by a party. In Burundi, as elsewhere, we want political opposition to be resolved by peaceful discussion in the interests of the citizens, with or without external mediation. We want citizens to be at the centre of our concerns, which is the focus of our development cooperation and of Belgium's political position. This is our unique position, including with regard to the fundamental problem of the third brigged mandate. It is with concern for the well-being and development of the people, the steady pursuit of socio-economic progress, the positive evolution of democracy and public freedoms that we are all concerned about the President's insistence on seeking a third consecutive term, which raises a legal question in relation to the Arusha agreements and the Constitution of Burundi. We note that running for a third term poses a legal and political challenge within his party and the population. We are concerned about the violence, the displacement of the population and the humanitarian situation following the failed coup d'état. Burundi cannot tolerate this situation of violence and destruction. The MR therefore asks, in this country as elsewhere, that the political class focus, on the eve of the elections, on the country's interest, its stakes, its development projects, some of which are carried out with the help of Belgium or the European Union, and that a stable situation can be achieved. Political alternation is necessary for democracy. Our training underlines the involvement of regional acts. We welcome the fact that countries or organizations are engaging in dialogue and trying to calm things down, establishing contacts with the various parties with a view to enabling a return to a calmed climate in a context conducive to the holding of these elections. Of course, we have instruments at our disposal to exert pressure, if necessary. I am thinking here of the suspension of financial aid, restrictive measures under the Cotonou agreements and targeted sanctions through the Security Council. Minister, you have often asked yourself the question of which country, among the great powers, cares for Burundi – we must show realism and modesty in this matter. None! Of course, there is Belgium, which is known to be a small country, but which has historical links with Africa. The answer for the DRC and Rwanda is almost the same. It must therefore maintain its interest in this part of the African continent, use its expertise, contacts and influence relays. Our ability to generate interest in this region of the world, our training capacity, once again, was recognized during this crisis. Our country, and we welcome it, speaks with one voice with a clear political message: honest elections, a real political debate, a higher sense of interest for Burundi, the preservation of human rights and public freedoms, the army loyal to the authorities of the country and not the arbiter of a political alternation that is a matter of democratic life. I would also like to say that we must be careful when making statements; here I am thinking of the statements made by both the majority and the opposition. Having said that, I know that each of my colleagues is also aware of this need. We need to think about the safety of our nationals on the spot and the binationals.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic175x.u9	Mr President, I should like to point out that I tabled a question in committee on 29 April and that we had a debate in plenary with the Minister for Development Cooperation. Finally, I would like to say that, in some situations, consensus is mandatory. However, during last week's debate, I felt – but perhaps I was wrong – that some people took more pleasure in attacking the Minister of Foreign Affairs when he was absent than trying to reach consensus on a particularly serious and worrying situation. Unfortunately, I fear that, for the time being, the situation has become terribly crystal clear, because the return of the President opens, not only for him, but also for the young militias of his party, a kind of manhunt. We need to be particularly attentive and influential in order to put all the pressure necessary to avoid this kind of thing. In Burundi, as in other countries of the Region, the role of the Catholic Church and the hierarchical authorities is particularly important. We must act on all mechanisms from this point of view, to ensure that the situation calms down. I think, like you, Deputy Prime Minister, that the postponement of the elections by fifteen days, or even by a month or two, makes little sense. The first step is to re-create the basis for a dialogue before an electoral process can be reached. For the rest, my colleague Richard Miller has already said everything. I just wanted to thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for the excellent briefing you gave us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic175x.u10	First of all, I would like to join Mr Flahaux's remarks. There is every reason to be concerned about this story, which is not over, which is on the way, and where the alarming situations have followed. I believe that the responsibility for this coup d'état lies, in large part, with Mr Nkurunziza's willingness to run for a third term. It is interesting to note that neither you nor your colleague Mr. De Croo did not immediately condemn this coup. I recently reviewed last week's speech in plenary at the time of the coup d'état. History would have been quite different if this coup had been won by the putschists. Probably the voices that rise today to condemn him would have been silent or at least more nuanced. They would probably have called for the restoration of a democratic order, but not for the condemnation of a coup d'état. They missed their shot, but once again the responsibility is major in the head of President Nkurunziza. My concern comes from the fact that, visibly, he has not understood that his willingness to stand before the voters will inevitably lead to further instability, violence and a situation that could be extremely dangerous. We know the history of Burundi. He himself knows Burundi's bloody history: his own family was decimated in previous coups d'état. I'm surprised he didn't learn from it. Today, the attitude of the international community and Belgium is understandable in that it is concerned with this particular context, which I have just stressed. You have insisted very much, Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs, that your attitude has always been clear. I don't agree. The one you now support, we've been waiting for him for a long time. The coup was not condemned, of course, but the will to run for a third term either – for weeks. Yet the parliament was waiting for a clear condemnation. Our resolution was very firm in this regard. I regret that Belgium has not taken any leadership in this area. Other countries have shown the way, such as the United States. Our country, which has so much to do with its diplomacy, what the attitude of the international community could be, has missed the opportunity to try to avoid these events. This lack of clarity was probably one of the elements that consolidated President Nkurunziza's obstinacy to run for a third term. You've been much clearer today. Nevertheless, there is still a small ambiguity. You support the position of the East African States that would agree on a third mandate – a completely paradoxical attitude. Indeed, they are calling for the implementation of the Arusha agreements, according to which no more than two terms can be run for office. There is no question of the "spirit" of the Arusha agreements. It's an expression you've used several times. No. The agreements provide that there may be no more than two terms of office. It's clear and clear, and it should have been said right from the start. The African States, with this paradoxical message, introduce an ambiguity. Since you said that you could agree with them on this proposal if a consensus emerged in Burundian society, there is still some ambivalence. We must be very clear: no third mandate and targeted sanctions. In this regard, I am pleased that, in the end – as our resolution voted in March in plenary session called for – targeted sanctions will hit the entourage and the very person of President Nkurunziza. I regret once again that these measures are taken very late. For the future, my questions are similar to those of other colleagues. Knowing that the submission of this candidacy will necessarily lead to further violence, what will Belgium's attitude be? What new initiatives are you going to take, both diplomatically and sanctionsly, with your European colleagues? How can we ensure that those who have committed this desperate act with regard to the irresponsible attitude of this President are guaranteed their rights? How can we protect them? How can we avoid witch-hunting? How can we prevent this militia from harming us? It is an excellent initiative that the ICC is already alerted and can act on events that have occurred and could occur in the future. What are the mechanisms that we put in place as evidence in relation to actions that could be prosecuted at the ICC? It is important that those who wish to commit crimes, serious violations of human rights should be alerted very clearly, that they should be held accountable and that we should now put in place a mechanism to monitor and punish such acts, if necessary, before an international court. With regard to Belgian cooperation, the attitude of our Minister for Cooperation has been quite normal and legitimate. The question arises of the future of our cooperation there. I wish I had an answer to a question. We know the police have been divided. During this coup, one part of the police took the cause for the putschists, the other not. What, if any, were the responsibilities of the police forces that were allegedly trained, supervised or supported by Belgium in the commission of acts, crimes and human rights violations? Do we have any information on the acts committed by police officers who were allegedly supported by our cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic175x.u11	Minister, one of my two questions was about the possibility for the Belgian Embassy in Bujumbura to possibly welcome human rights defenders who would be threatened. I heard your answer, I hear you do it discreetly sometimes. In addition to this question, do you have any reason to believe that rumours are being made in Bujumbura or elsewhere in Burundi, that ethnic or Belgian criteria are being mobilised in recent events, that Belgium's role is being denounced or that a camp is mobilizing? We know the unfortunate precedent of Rwanda. So I would have liked to know this information. As far as private radio stations are concerned, Belgian civil society actors say that Belgium could play a role in reviving these radio stations. We know that it is important that the plurality of opinions can be disseminated. Mr Crusnière spoke of a role of NGOs as "Reporters without Borders". Would this not be a way of reorienting in the short term and reallocating the budgets that have been suspended in direct cooperation with Burundi, possibly in collaboration with the Flemish, German-speaking and French Communities for the re-establishment of a biotope of plural radios? We know how important radios are in Africa.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic175x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think all the questions have already been asked. I will not repeat what my fellow Members have already said. I would like to invite everyone to think carefully about what we have seen in recent years, and as far as I am concerned, I will draw the conclusion from that. Burundi is a country I have been following for a long time. As a young foreign official, I was partly responsible for that section in 1989, so I know the terrible history of that country. We have Rwanda much more in our memory, but terrible things have also happened in Burundi. The latest outburst of ethnic tensions has resulted in 300 000 deaths there. I am one of those who have a great deal of respect for all those who have reached the Arusha agreement. That agreement is actually the basis of peace and stability, the power sharing. There is a lot of Belgian know-how, with keys and special majorities and so on. If that agreement stands, I fear that we in Burundi will see a repetition of the terrible history of this country. That agreement must therefore be maintained. Now I'm gonna get a little more critical. There are two possibilities. Either we do not have the knowledge of what is happening in that country, contrary to what our diplomacy always tells us, or we have at least no control over those in charge there. We always hear our diplomats say "we have the knowledge of Central Africa." It is true that we have that knowledge, but then we have no control over the people in charge. That's why I was critical of the Minister. They talked about me on Thursday, among other things. I am critical of our diplomacy and, I am sorry, but the Minister is politically responsible for it. Since 2010, it is clear that Mr Nkurunziza and his party CNDD-FDD want to undermine the Arusha agreement. Those who know history know that they have not negotiated it. They joined it afterwards and joined it. The current party and the president in power do not want to know about the Arusha agreement. They don't want power sharing. That began to become clear after the 2010 elections, where the opposition committed the big mistake not to go along with it. I've been hoping for a while that it would be okay. I remember the efforts of the international community to create a balance between the force majeure of CNDD-FDD through an extra-parliamentary opposition. The year 2013 was a year of hope, an agenda was agreed to prepare the elections. But as of 2013, they clearly slipped. This regime, unfortunately, enriches itself. The contrasts between the poverty in the hills and the prosperous villas of the various powers, just outside Bujumbura, are unheard of. Arusha agreements on land reform and transitional justice have not been complied with. As of 2013, there was a façade opposition to pull up a screen and pretend they still wanted Arusha. The opposition parties are divided between those who are loyal to CNDD-FDD and want to join them in coalition, and the others, including Uprona. This regime doesn't want Arusha. Nkurunziza has tried to amend the Constitution and obtain a third mandate. It's one voice. The man wanted to undress Arusha. Our diplomacy claims to know Africa. I don't understand why our diplomats didn't see this coming. We're in trouble today because soft healers make stinking wounds. We did not make it clear to CNDD-FDD and to Nkurunziza that we do not accept the undressing of the Arusha Treaty and that we do not want him to go for a third mandate. We did not make that clear quickly enough, which is why we are in the shit now. For us this is only a theoretical problem, but not for the people there. It is no coincidence that 110 000 or perhaps 120 000 people have already fled. On the edge of Lake Tanganyika there are people who sleep on the beach hoping to find a boat soon to cross the lake. In the memory of those people, the incredible things that have happened there are imprinted; they are terrified. Our diplomacy, which pretends to have a great deal of know-how in Central Africa, has failed. We have the pretence that Europe can play a catalyst role there, but we have failed. We must learn from that. I will conclude, fellow Members. The first lesson is that Nkurunziza and his party must give us a guarantee that they will comply with the Arusha Convention. That starts with Nkurunziza not giving a third mandate. If we don't get that guarantee, all we're gonna do is put a patch on a wooden leg. For the first time now, I hear the Minister say clearly and clearly that Belgium takes the view that the President should not exercise a third mandate. I'm happy about that. Better late than never.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic175x.u13	Mr President, I shall restate the way in which Belgian diplomacy considers it necessary to carry out its work and try to influence things in Burundi or in other countries in the region. First of all, we are no longer a colonial power. I hope we agree on that. It is not a question of dictating a number of behaviours, regardless of the country in which one wants to have an influence. Above all, it is a matter of getting the international community, as regards the European Union first, and then, if possible, the United Nations, to adopt a common position on the subject. It is also necessary to see to what extent the regional actors, or even the actors of the country in question, can also be persuaded to go in a certain direction. One can conduct an invective diplomacy, it does not lead very far. The aim is to try to have a direct impact on the course of things. I will go back to a number of questions that have been clearly asked. With regard to the postponement of the elections, it is true that from the beginning of the last events, I pleaded for a postponement of the elections, not only for the presidential elections but also for those of 26 May. The postponement announced now is not enough. This postponement was requested by the African Union, the European Union and the United States. We are convinced that this is possible within the constitutional framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic175x.u14	I would also like to say that it is not a question of postponing the transition to a new transition of two or three years. It is a postponement within the framework of the Constitution. Either there will be a delay of a few weeks or maybe even months, but no more than that. Either we go to an actual third mandate, an extension of the second mandate for a few years, possibly with a transition. Why is this postponement important? In this way, we hope to return to a serene dialogue and to see an end to clashes, police violence against demonstrators or others, which almost led to an attempt at a coup d'état. In order to take into account the situation of our nationals on the ground, we did not want to react in a virulent manner. Other States have acted in the same way. The African Union condemns every time all coups d'état and you have been able to observe that the entire international community has adopted a rather cautious attitude. I myself call for some caution in how to speak out against certain leaders of countries in which a large national community lives. If necessary, we will consider evacuation measures, but we do not represent a colonial power and we must take into account the presence of our nationals in those countries. We need to re-engage in dialogue and conduct a genuine electoral debate. I do not know whether this will be done through "Reporters Without Borders", but as I said, we take into account the cooperation bodies and we are considering, together with other European or international partners, contributing to the reconstruction of this capacity for freedom of expression through the reconstruction of radio stations and the rebuilding of the media. The presence of radio and the media in countries such as Burundi is very important and enables us to participate in this reconstruction process. Various elements were mentioned with regard to observation missions. As regards the possible reimbursement of observers by NGOs. Without an observation mission or mission, this will indeed be the case. This reimbursement of the observation missions by NGOs was announced. Mrs Mogherini may decide to send observers, but our conclusions of Monday contain a number of conditions. It is then about a correct electoral process and security. We need not only a transparent, democratic and inclusive electoral process, but also some security guarantees. We will not send observers without some security guarantees on the ground. I would also like to be concrete about the reference we made from the outset to the Arusha Agreements and how that reference is formulated. It is true that, at European level, the terminology we used in our press releases from Belgium has finally been used exactly. We call on all parties, the Government, the security services, all political groups, including youth movements, to refrain from any action that could exacerbate tension in Burundi, to take into account the best interests of the country and to seek solutions that respect the Arusha Agreements. Mr Dallemagne, when I spoke of the spirit, it was in particular with reference to the last communiqué of the US State Secretariat, on 13 May: "We support East African Community leader"s call today for peaceful, democratic elections in line with Burundi, "s electoral laws and the spirit of the Arusha Agreement". This simply means calling for dialogue. Don't make me say what I didn't say. I informed you that, in the meeting between leaders of the East African community, this idea of guaranteeing the conditions for carrying out the third mandate was mentioned. It is obvious that this is not possible in the context of the dialogue that is there. When I talk about dialogue, I'm not talking about a third term or not. I know that many would like to express themselves more strongly but gracefully, we will not dictate what the outcome of the dialogue will be. A coup d'état has just occurred in Burundi, probably, as you have said, as a result of the process of amending the Constitution and then submitting a candidacy. So there was a violent coup d'état. We find ourselves with important demonstrations that are sometimes subject to repression with sometimes live bullets and their consequences. The European Union has also taken the same position: no impunity. Persons will have to be identified in order to be able to prosecute them, hence the steps, as you have pointed out, taken towards the International Criminal Court (ICC). But if a dialogue could resume, what would be the conclusion? I don't know. That is why we refer to the spirit of the Arusha Accords. What is it? It's first to accept, we're far from there, to get back around a table. It is to accept that there is already a possible dialogue between the various Burundian actors. But I feel that many would like it to be to say to them: "You will now respect to the letter what was concluded, nevertheless a number of years ago". The situation has changed. What will be the conclusions of a Burundian agreement? I don't know. I sincerely believe that what we need to focus on is that it respects the spirit of the Arusha Agreements, that is, that it is through dialogue and consensus that we come to a solution and that there is no exclusion in these solutions. Hence the debate on the ethnic conflicts that have existed and could still be repeated. I will come back to that; Mr Hellings has asked questions about safety in this area. Dialogue is indeed a pressure that we can exert in trying to mobilise the international community, as I told the Foreign Affairs Council, I was the only one to intervene, but we had an agreement on the conclusions. There were still a few other issues on the agenda. Nevertheless, I believe that we have the support of the whole European Union in the position we stand for. In the Security Council, France has made sure that we go in the same direction: the call for the absence of any recourse to violence and the call for dialogue. This international pressure will be of a diplomatic nature; I recalled, together with my colleague from the Cooperation, that we had made a very clear statement, not only to the President but also to the leaders of his party, on the risks associated with a new candidacy. The follow-up showed the evolution of the situation on the ground. Beyond diplomatic pressure, decisions on development cooperation can be taken. It's been taken with respect to the police services. I cannot tell you today - this is to be checked with the Department of Cooperation - what the details of the responsibilities of the forces of law and order formed by us or for which our Cooperation has intervened. I'll check that out. Beyond this halt in cooperation in support of the police or in the financing of elections, for example, at the level of the African Union and also of the Security Council, it is likely that questions will have to be asked about what more can be done in Burundi. I can hear the logic of a presence on the spot. However, the question should be asked as to what Belgium actually prohibits itself in its former colonies. I am referring to the Rwanda Commission. We have evolved, there have been several adjustments to the conclusions and there is a sense that the approach is different, but I have made it clear that the problem is: is it permissible to respond to a request from the United Nations to be present in the region, including a military presence? Personally, I do not exclude it, but I have never asked for military personnel to be sent there. In any case, we must stop constantly teaching local authorities, regional bodies or international bodies and then say, when we have to intervene, that we cannot do this because we have a history there, in Rwanda for example, and systematically refuse a military presence. It's a little easy. This is a question that we are asked regularly. Reference has often been made to the situation in Mali. I remain convinced that if France had not assumed its responsibility in Bamako, this city would now be in other hands and in a particularly difficult situation. We must therefore know that escalation is very good, it is diplomatic pressure, it is decisions on development cooperation. If the situation deteriorates, there are many more possible actions than decisions in the Security Council and probably then calls for defence-oriented participation. But we're not there. It is possible that we may go further in the area of cooperation. We can do more in development cooperation, but that also depends on developments on the ground. However, an objective must always be put first. We are trying to help the population instead of providing direct assistance to the government, government or police in such bad circumstances. We can decide to refocus our development cooperation. We can do something about the media, but we can also do something about the refugees. We are already doing this through the international agencies. We have already taken a number of initiatives, but we may be able to do more. More and more refugees are coming to Burundi's neighbouring countries. We can offer assistance there in cooperation with the international agencies on the ground. As far as our compatriots are concerned, we have already strengthened the presence of the detachments of security officers (DAS) present on the spot. This is essentially about the protection of our diplomatic services. We moved on to about ten Defence officials on the spot. It's a first reinforcement. My Defence colleague and I are following the situation to see if other initiatives need to be taken, not just as part of an evacuation plan, but whether, at some point, protective measures should be considered. Mr Hellings, you asked the question very directly. To date, there is no indication of the resumption of ethnic conflicts. There is no indication of violence against foreign nationals, especially Belgians. The situation must always be monitored in a very precise manner. I also repeat that, in this context, attention must be paid to the way in which we express ourselves and to the way in which the way in which we express ourselves is resumed on the ground. I'm already a little used to how we can distort a number of words or expressions when we stay within our national framework. You can imagine that in Burundi, we can go a little further and, unfortunately, sometimes with more dramatic consequences. What decision could be made with regard to evacuation? Without a real ethnic conflict or without a real use of force against our compatriots or foreigners, we have no reason to take an initiative. We are closely following the situation and are in permanent contact with the Belgian embassy. In consultation with Belgium and France, there was a first announcement by both embassies to their respective compatriots that they could go back to Bujumbura. Therefore, not to all neighbourhoods, but people can come out and should not necessarily stay inside. We will look day after day at whether we need to do more, not only with France, but also with other countries. There are 770 compatriots in Burundi, but we are responsible for 1 600 people, in cooperation with other countries, for a possible evacuation. So there is contact with our embassy and other partners who can provide information. On that basis, we can make decisions. I'm going back to political development. I understand that we are asking from the start what will happen if the situation continues. I do not exclude that the current situation persists, i.e. that the President wishes to continue his approach with a slight postponement of the parliamentary or even presidential elections. We will, of course, have to see what attitude we take towards the country in this context. The approach we are trying to put in place now is first of all a pressure from the international community, if possible with an initiative on the ground. This was already what the East African community was tempted to do by receiving President Nkurunziza and having a discussion with him in Tanzania. Today, I spoke a lot about the special envoy of the United Nations, Said Djinnit, who may be able to try to carry out an initiative in this area as well. The problem is whether the various actors in Burundi can be put back to the table. We'll see if there's enough international pressure. What I can at any rate see is that so far, messages to the President, whether discreet or public, have not had sufficient influence or impact. One can understand the concern following the remarks made by Belgian representatives on a one-on-one basis at the beginning of the year. A president of a very great power has been much firmer. I simply note that the third candidacy is announced, even though the President of the United States has spoken very firmly about the Burundian President. In the meantime, the candidacy is here. What I am trying to do above all is to see how to return to a situation of dialogue on the spot. If this does not succeed, in the event of violence, we hope that there will be no impunity. The European Union is on this path. Initiatives could be taken even to the International Criminal Court. As I said to my colleagues in my speech to the European Council, if there is to be a kind of one-party and one-way power, it will be necessary to draw the conclusions from it, particularly with regard to the Cotonou agreements. There are formulations in the conclusions of the European Council on this subject, because all the conclusions will have to be drawn. Now, is it still possible to move towards a transition? I hope so. A question was also asked about the possible status of a president who does not exercise a third mandate. I am referring here to Congo. Some time ago, during the celebration of 50 years of African Union in Addis Ababa, I told the leaders of the African Union that it is part of such a framework. The question was whether it was possible to provide for something as a possible way out for the president. Now I have seen in Congo that this was possible for the majority and for the opposition to put some proposals on the table. What capacity is available to guarantee the safety of a former president? What statute does he have? What constitution is applied at international and protocol level? Maybe he gets some specific missions? This is part of a possible reasoning on a transitional provision. But this is a test. This may be the first democratic transition in the Great Lakes region. We had a specific relationship, with a colonial status for Congo and a mandate for two other countries, but so far we have not seen a real democratic transition. So this is a first test and I think that such a statute for a former president is part of a possible solution to a dialogue between all Burundians. So far, however, I have not seen a positive response from the President. I will not give any details on this, but there are proposals from some leaders in the region to provide a position for an international organisation. That would not be the first time, but so far we have not seen a positive response from the President to move in that direction. It's a possibility. We will continue in this direction. You can't rule out anything. We must pay attention to political developments, security, human rights and the impact on other countries in the region in various areas such as refugees. We will be facing the same debate on compliance with the Constitution and previous agreements in several countries in the region. We must pay particular attention to the safety of our compatriots. We are in contact through networks such as SMS and radio. The Belgian community in Burundi cannot be compared with what sometimes happens in incidents in other parts of the world where we are confronted with a large number of tourists or people who are occasionally in the country. These are people who have some experience and know the situation. Their response was immediate in terms of prudence and precautionary measures to avoid incidents. That does not prevent us from being vigilant if the situation is to deteriorate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic175x.u15	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your comprehensive reply. It is also clear to us that nothing will happen in Burundi without dialogue and the necessary international pressure for dialogue. It is clear, however, that a postponement of the elections must not lead to delays. It also seems to be the international voice. I also read President Zuma's statements this morning, which still see a way out of this impasse. There is, of course, still a limited margin within the current constitutional framework as the new President must not be sworn in by the end of August. We will follow this up with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic175x.u16	Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs, I continue to believe that you have not been clear enough and that you have not responded sufficiently in time. You've ironed out a little bit about "invective diplomacy." We can be courteous while being firm. The House's resolution was not part of this "invective diplomacy". It was firm and dated 26 March. She asked for strict adherence to the Arusha Accords. The comments you made in the second part of this discussion are again nuanced by your initial opposition. You say that we must not assume what intra-Burundian dialogue will be. The quality of such a dialogue can still be questioned when one sees the use of force by the current regime. Therefore, this expression does not seem to me to be appropriate to the present situation. I think we can be firm and clear, even when we represent Belgium, with its past. Burundians are more interested in maintaining relations with us than with the United States. Maybe that's why they're paying more attention to what we could say. We have underused our assets. I call for our country to take clear positions in the future. This is not the first time we have discussed serious problems in Central Africa. It still pays in tens of thousands of victims. We must, of course, remain very vigilant about what we can do. Of course, we are not ex machina deus and we do not have the power to necessarily influence the course of things. In any case, this must be done as far as possible. Secondly, you insisted, and here rightly so, on the need to change our military cooperation on the spot. I have already tabled a motion for a resolution under the previous Parliament, which is quite in line with you. In fact, it is requested that no more exclusive principle be laid down as to the geographical area of a possible military operation abroad. This is not the first time I have heard you say that. It would therefore be useful to bring together a majority of parliamentarians to discuss it and to make progress in this area. You are right: if we prevent ourselves from contributing to operations aimed at stability, we are diminishing our diplomatic strength. On this point, I fully agree with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic175x.u17	Mr President, we are now a few hours ahead of the summit in Riga, and perhaps it would be useful to clarify some elements within this committee. The Eastern Partnership was established at the Prague Summit in May 2009. The aim is to strengthen bilateral and multilateral relations with six partner countries, namely Ukraine, Moldova, Belarus, Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia. I would like to remind you immediately that, for the Belgian Government, the EU must give absolute priority in its foreign policy to its neighbours and thus to the Eastern Partnership, as well as to bilateral relations with the countries that are part of it. The objective of the Eastern Partnership is to strengthen the political association of the participating countries with the EU and to promote progressive economic integration into its internal market. I would like to emphasise the importance of differentiation between partner countries, because it is necessary to take into account the effective desire of each of these countries to strengthen relations with the EU. In this respect, in June 2014, the EU signed association agreements, including the DCFTA, the full and in-depth free trade agreement with three of those countries, namely Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova. We have had a very interesting debate on the three agreements in this committee. At the same time, cooperation between the three other partner countries with the EU remains more limited. The process of approving these three agreements has been successful up to the federal level in Belgium and continues at the level of the Länder. In addition, 17 Member States have submitted their ratification within the EU. Tomorrow will be the fourth Eastern Partnership Summit in Riga. Belgium will be represented by the Prime Minister. A declaration will be adopted on that occasion. Negotiations on the content of this declaration are still under way. The majority of the text is supported by all partners, i.e. the 28 and 6 partners. Only three major points are still under discussion. The most problematic point is that of the European aspirations towards the three countries which have concluded association agreements and which wish to obtain an ambitious language which would leave the door open for future accession to the European Union. Belgium believes that priority should be given to the implementation of the agreements recently concluded, those signed in 2014. It is therefore far too early to discuss other prospects for rapprochement with the European Union. It is time to consolidate our relations and to implement the commitments made. These countries have chosen the right path of rapprochement with the European Union; they must now, with our help, implement profound reforms (the rule of law, justice, administration) before seriously considering a more formal rapprochement with the European Union. Another point of friction is the situation in Ukraine. The interlocutors present do not always have a clear vision of how to approach this issue at the summit. We will have to agree on a language that preserves both firmness - the European Union has a principled position of condemnation of the illegal annexation of Crimea by Russia - and realism - it would be counterproductive that Riga become a summit of Russia bashing - in order to take all partners on board. A third topic concerns mobility, also a sensitive point, particularly for Ukraine and Georgia, which are in the second and final phase of the implementation of the action plan leading to visa liberalisation with the European Union. The recent progress reports on these two countries prepared by the Commission are clear. While progress has been made, there are still shortcomings in both countries. For Belgium and others, particularly for Benelux and some other partners, the finalisation of this process depends exclusively on compliance with the technical criteria. It is therefore not a question of offering Ukraine and Georgia, as a political gesture, the lifting of the visa requirement for short stays without all the conditions being met, or of being confined to a binding timetable. I repeat, we are in favour of differentiation throughout the process. If we can complete the process with one of the partners, there is no reason not to pave the way for this development in the area of visas. Beyond these considerations, the association agreements that are being ratified provide ambitious frameworks for strengthening cooperation in a wide range of areas, provided that the implementation of economic criteria and respect for our values are effective. The European Union has committed itself to supporting the partners in this direction, but the ball is also on their side and their political ambitions must be reflected in the implementation of reforms on the ground. The Riga Summit should focus on de facto cooperation with partner countries. There are many of them. The provisional implementation of the free trade agreements has led to an average increase for Georgia, Ukraine and Moldova, from 15 to 20 % of their trade volume in a few months. Cooperation will be strengthened in areas as diverse as business support, research, education, transport and energy interconnections. In this respect, the European Union is working to improve its energy security and diversify its supply, in particular by enabling gas from the Caspian Sea and the Middle East to enter the European market more easily. In this context, our Eastern Partnership neighbours are important partners, including Azerbaijan. With regard to the latter, we must of course remain firm in the defence of our fundamental values, democracy and respect for human rights, but without going so far as to break the bridges with Baku and make any cooperation with the European Union impossible. An embryonic dialogue is taking place with Azerbaijan on regional issues such as Ukraine and the fight against international terrorism. It's kind of a small step policy. As far as Belarus is concerned, in recent months we have seen a more positive attitude on the Minsk side, both internally (freement of political prisoners) and externally (facilitation in the Ukrainian conflict). The European Union must be able to recognise these timid advances and take a step forward by engaging in dialogue with Belarus. But this resumption of constructive dialogue is not to the detriment of our values (human rights, democracy). In fact, individual sanctions remain in place against the majority of the dignitaries of the Belarusian regime. I would also stress that the Eastern Partnership must be an open instrument on neighbours' neighbours, including Russia. There is no question of business as usual, there is no magic formula to bring Russia back to reason. Diplomatic, political and economic pressures, particularly through sanctions, show their effects, but in parallel with pressure, we must continue to engage with Russia while maintaining a strong level of ambition for bilateral and multilateral cooperation with our other six neighbours in the framework of the Eastern Partnership. In addition, I would like to point out, based on the questions raised, that discussions on the resolution of the frozen Nagorny Karabakh conflict are being held under the auspices of the OSCE Minsk Group, co-chaired by France, the United States and Russia. The European Union fully supports the activities of this group and funds conflict prevention projects in the two countries concerned. No decision has yet been taken regarding my participation in the opening ceremony of the European Games to be held in Baku from 12 to 28 June, but a strong Belgian delegation (140 athletes and 200 people in total) will be present. During my visit to Baku, as well as to Yerevan, under the chairmanship of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, I was impressed to see a strong trade delegation led by AWEX on the one hand and the FIT on the other. Some from Tbilisi, others from Turkey and wishing to develop relations with Azerbaijan in a strong way, according to what I have heard from the two regions on the spot. With regard to the European Neighbourhood Policy, a stable and prosperous neighbourhood also contributes to the well-being of the Union. The review of the neighbourhood policy is therefore an important exercise. High Representative Mogherini began a long consultation exercise with EU Member States, 16 partner countries and civil society. This exercise is expected to be finalized in the fall of 2015. Contributions from EU Member States, including Belgium, are expected by mid-June. We had a meeting in Barcelona a few weeks ago with both the partners of the eastern flan and the southern flan of Europe, and Belgium defends some basic principles: to maintain a good balance between the southern neighbourhood and the eastern neighbourhood, not to favour one at the expense of the other; to defend the principle of differentiation. I repeat, the objectives and means must be tailored to each partner, each having different levels of ambition and/or means; more flexibility in the release of European funds; better strategic communication for the Union's beneficial action, so as to create a sense of ownership among the people of the partner countries; and, lastly, pay attention to our neighbours' neighbours, as I said for Russia, but what is happening in the Sahel has such a direct influence in Libya and what is happening in Iraq has an influence on the situation in Jordan. I would like to add two more points in relation to other organisations, Mr President. There will be a summit in Riga tomorrow. However, there have also been many contacts with our NATO partners to see what evolution is possible in our Eastern Partnership. I must admit that there have been many positive reactions about Montenegro. Many believe that, in the coming months, progress may be made with Montenegro on possible accession to NATO. I believe that we must proceed in the same way. We must seek differentiation by achieving a correct process per country, so that we can achieve a positive result. So far, there has been a positive evolution with Montenegro. We have also had many meetings with the Council of Europe. Yesterday, a ministerial committee was held in Brussels with the 47 countries of the Council of Europe. There were contacts between the OSCE and the Council of Europe on the situation in Macedonia. I was in Skopje a few weeks ago. There is a very difficult situation there with hardly any dialogue between the various parties of majority and opposition. We will try to take an initiative in this matter with the OSCE and the Council of Europe. First, monitoring of the various follow-up processes against the problems in Skopje, and also a new dialogue between the different partners. This is a concern for the whole of the Balkans. The European Commission has the will not to enlarge the European Union over the next five years. However, we must continue to prepare for this enlargement with many Balkan countries. The Riga Summit is about an Eastern Partnership. Belgium believes that all agreements with the six partners should now be properly implemented, but there is now no question of possible accession to the European Union. I believe that this should be made clear. Finally, all the debates in NATO, the Council of Europe and the European Union always refer to Russia. I believe that we must continue to follow both paths: a strong attitude towards annexation of Crimea or the situation in eastern Ukraine, but contact with Russia is also necessary. On a bilateral level, a double taxation treaty was recently signed with Russia. We have had many contacts with Russia through the Council of Europe. I believe that this should also be the case with the European Union and with the United States. You may have seen the meeting between John Kerry and Sergei Lavrov in Sochi. That can always be very useful. All this to outline a framework for the Riga Summit. It'll take place tomorrow. I do not have all the conclusions, but I have tried to give you some details on the three possible points in order to arrive at a final text tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic175x.u18	There is a reply from Mr Dallemagne first. Mr Flahaux can then take the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic175x.u19	Mr President, Minister, I would like to join Belgium's initiatives on this Eastern Partnership. I want to support diplomacy as developed by the Minister at this fourth Eastern Partnership Summit. I believe that this is an extremely important partnership for the development and stability of these countries. Through political dialogue with these countries, it is hoped that there will be a series of progress in governance. I had the chance to participate in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly a few days ago and, like many colleagues, I was quite concerned about the very clear tension between the Armenian and Azerbaijani delegations. I am concerned to see today the statements made, the levels of rearmament, the incidents. A helicopter was recently shot down over Nagorny Karabakh some 15 days ago. Minister, I wanted to draw your attention to this because it is not impossible that this frozen conflict will again be more hot in the coming months. There is a series of extremely worrying symptoms and I would have liked to have been very interested in this issue before it was too late.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic175x.u20	Mr President, I would like to recall that the MR requested this debate before the Eastern Partnership Summit. I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for giving us his tempo on this. We had already discussed this subject a little on the occasion of the Association Agreements between the European Union, Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia. We have a feeling that, beyond the ratification of the agreements, there is a real political dimension that is a little missed. This is not the fault of the partners around the table, but we must ask ourselves what the meaning of the Eastern Partnership really is. Is there a genuine unity of views between the Member States on both sides? We can see that in the Eastern partners there is no real unity of views. In the head of Western Europeans, there is no real common philosophy so far of what our relations with the eastern neighbours should be, even if efforts are made. From this point of view, I welcome the joint efforts of Germany and France. It's already a sign of a will. On the other hand, as the minister said, how can we take Russia's interests into account without giving it a real veto over our relations with these six countries? It is a kind of scene in which Russia seems to give the image it still draws the strings. What can we propose to be attractive to these States? As the minister said in committee during the debate on the association agreements, enlargement to these countries is not on the agenda. Perhaps it will never be, but in any case it is not at the moment, even if some presidents of these countries are holding their press conference with a European flag behind them. The second argument is that following the failure of Vilnius in November 2013, there was the war, which is still ongoing – at least the least – between Russia and Ukraine. Hence this Eastern Partnership is a half-success since, on the one hand, half of the married people, if I may say so, have said yes to the partnership but, at the same time, they all have a part of their territory more or less permanently occupied by Russian forces, whether in Dombaz, Abkhazia, South Ossetia or Transnistria in Moldova. On the other hand, three countries have said no, two of which are in conflict in Nagorno-Karabagh, which has thus self-proclaimed autonomous republic without us knowing exactly what that means. The third argument to underline the importance of the debate we are conducting today is that we have moved from an instrument-device of modernisation aid managed by the European Commission to a political issue following the failure of Vilnius. Of course, this is a political issue, but what political dimension has been reintroduced into the steering of this Eastern Partnership? Has the preparation of Riga made it possible to reconcile the views of the Member States on this subject? That seems important to me. In addition, it seems to me equally important to emphasize the security approach of the Eastern Partnership without competing with NATO programmes, security sector reform in Ukraine, the participation of Georgian soldiers in EU military missions, etc. The fourth argument is the question of the enlargement of the European Union. I just mentioned it. The Juncker Commission said and reaffirmed that there would be no enlargement during this legislature. However, it is known that the Association Agreements oblige the partners to absorb a large part of the acquis communautaire, which is in a way a preparation for possible future accession. In any case, it is an opening up of the internal market which could even lead to integration into the European Economic Area where Iceland, Norway and Lichtenstein are also located. With regard to the freedom of movement of persons, this is an important demand of these countries through the progressive liberalisation of the visa regime. We know how tense this debate is – I believe it is now in another committee where we are discussing the problem of the construction sector and the competition of some Eastern Europeans to entrepreneurs in our country. It is important to know what Belgium wants in this area. For the financing of these six countries, I believe that €15 billion is planned for the period 2014-2020. However, investments could one day increase if there is one day a decline in corruption. Indeed, the Association Agreements provide for assistance in the fight against corruption, which is an endemic disease still very unfortunately gnawing some European countries such as Bulgaria and Romania. How can we sell this partnership to civilian populations? How to give him visibility? As far as East-East politics is concerned, that is what is very important in the discussion. What can we do concretely to restore and densify the relationship between these partners? All the difficulties between Armenia and Azerbaijan were mentioned. There are also some between Armenia and Turkey. This topic has been on the news in recent weeks. Let us not forget democratization. I understand that the minister mentioned a certain restoration of bridges with Belarus. Between the reopening of bridges and the democratisation of this country, there is a margin. Personally, I remember having received in my own city two Belarusian policemen in uniform as seen in the films, who came because simply a child of the Chernobyl Committee did not want to return to this country. So there is still a way to go! The picture would not be complete if Russia was not mentioned. It is clear that Russia will not escape full involvement in a trilateral dialogue with Ukraine and the European Union. I would remind you that on 1 January this is the deadline for the economic aspect of the European Union-Ukraine Association Agreement. Shouldn't we insist on the interests of the European Union that an extension of these standards to Russia might have? I may have been a long time, but these issues are particularly important.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic175x.u21	Thank you for your explanation, Minister. I have a brief question on the second point that will be raised in Riga, namely Ukraine. The Minsk agreement to reach a ceasefire in eastern Ukraine is still not being respected. Will proposals be put forward by Belgium in Riga to comply with this agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic175x.u22	Mr President, Minister, I will not be very long. We have discussed at length our views on partnership with our close neighbours and within a broader framework with regard to the Eastern Partnership. I believe that, in addition to promoting relations with the six countries mentioned, account must be taken of the necessary de-escalation of our tensions with Russia, which we must continue to consider as an important economic partner. Discussions will focus on a number of issues, including the consolidation of the rule of law in those respective States. I believe that all these countries have overall efforts to make in this area. I know that you will be careful to promote this consolidation. Trade opportunities are very interesting with some countries. You mentioned Azerbaijan. This country has exemplary economic growth. The other states are tilting our trade balance in the right direction. As far as energy security and possible interconnections are concerned, as I have already told you about Ukraine, I believe that particular attention should be paid to the problem of nuclear power plants. In Ukraine, some plants are completely depreciated. They are designed only with Soviet manufacturing processes and tensions with Russia could, for the power plants that are at the end of the race, endanger the surrounding populations. You know very well that it can do a lot of oil on our people. This is also the case for Armenia, which has very old nuclear power plants, in a rather worrying state. You also referred to the tension between Armenia and Azerbaijan. It is the Minsk Group that has been managing this for years, but it must be noted that it is not making any progress. A whole series of resolutions, a whole series of texts have been voted on, both at the UN and at the Council of Europe level to intervene and react to this violation of the territory in Azerbaijan (20% of that country is occupied). Nearly 1 million people have been displaced. It's a real human scandal that's been going on for nearly 20 years. The situation is not changing. My colleague Dallemagne mentioned the helicopter being shot down earlier. It's an act of course. [[It's like when a plane falls.]] There is much talk about it in the media, but for years a dam has been used on the border between the two countries as a weapon of war. And it causes far more victims! More than 400,000 people are without water there! It's not in the media. It is not mentioned, but it is difficult to live on a daily basis for the populations concerned. As far as Ukraine is concerned, as we have already mentioned, there is no doubt that certain events are to be condemned, such as the occupation of Crimea. I also believe that it will be necessary to push this country to fight corruption in order to establish a state of law in the image of the Western support it enjoys in the context of the conflict that is undermining it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic175x.u23	Mr President, I will not react to all the comments and remarks made. I have taken note of Mr. Flahaux's comments on a number of points, but they are in some way consistent with the concerns I raised. It is true that in relations with all countries, we must be very careful about the prospects beyond the implementation of the agreements that have been concluded. On the other hand, we must pay close attention to the relationship with our neighbours' neighbours, and especially when we think about partnership, we are thinking about Russia. In contact with Russia, we have always tried to maintain a capacity for dialogue even though, I repeat, we must be very firm on the annexation of Crimea, on the events in eastern Ukraine, but also, as has been recalled in recent days in the framework of the Council of Europe, on the situation in part of Georgia or Moldova. You also called him back. Mr Blanchart has come back to this point in some way. When we discuss the region, it is true that we have the impression that the diplomatic hub to try to calm the conflicts is Minsk. This does not say any more about the situation in Belarus itself, but it is in Minsk that a number of things are being discussed, either within the framework of the Normandy Group in relation to Ukraine or in the framework of the Minsk Group in which solutions are being sought for the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. As far as Ukraine is concerned, and as far as it is possible to take an initiative, we are first and foremost calling for the correct implementation of the last Minsk agreement, like many other partners. That is the only chance of a political solution and involves a cease-fire and the absence of all heavy weapons. For this we really need to see the will of the various partners, but there must also be control by the OSCE. That is to say observers on the ground, but perhaps also some drones, which is a new evolution in this area. As far as Belgium is concerned, yesterday I was in contact with the Secretary-General of the OSCE and the President, the current Minister for Foreign Affairs of Serbia, to make it clear that we support all of the OSCE's initiatives to achieve a genuine on-the-spot check. It is not a lack of resources, except perhaps with new technologies such as drones, but rather about access to the different places to actually control. Secondly, we are trying, with the Council of Europe, until yesterday as chairman of the Ministerial Committee, now simply as a member, to assist in the implementation of the Minsk agreements. That was one of the two themes at the ministerial meeting yesterday. The other was the fight against extremism, radicalism and terrorism. So we want to have a real reform within Ukraine. A representative of the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe is now working on a constitutional working group in Ukraine to achieve decentralisation. The committee concerned is also concerned with giving advice on new laws on decentralisation. We have also tried to reach a common approach with the OSCE and the Council of Europe. There are several actions to help. I repeat that we need to put a lot of pressure not only on Russia, but also partly on Ukraine, to fight against corruption and to get socio-economic reforms, as well as real constitutional reforms leading to decentralisation. This means more autonomy for different parts of the country. That will be the case for the Donbas region. There is also always a reference to Crimea. This is very difficult because there is little movement in Russia, but we cannot ignore the fact that a solution must be found for Ukraine including Crimea. In recent days, we have tried to go in the same direction in various international meetings. We met with NATO in Turkey, where reference was made to possible support for Ukraine. Our colleague Pavlo Klimkin, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, was present. Many meetings also took place at the beginning of the week. It is very complicated at European level, because we have many groups of Friends. On Monday, the Friends of Serbia met and then the Friends of Ukraine, in Brussels, and the Foreign Minister was also present. In those meetings, we supported the correct implementation of the Minsk agreement, but we also called for real reforms within Ukraine. Yesterday the Foreign Minister was still present at the Council of Europe. Yesterday I had more informal contact with Mr Klimkin and also with Sergei Lavrov, the Russian Foreign Minister. The situation is very difficult, but we are also trying to take initiatives from Belgium for the correct implementation of various parts of the agreement. A first step is a real ceasefire. So far, however, we have still received bad signals about the use of weapons on the ground. Mr Blanchart, with regard to the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh, I had the opportunity to visit Yerevan and Baku at the end of April. Beyond the commemorations in which we have been able to participate on both sides, including in the memorial of the Armenian genocide, the two elements that emerge are, on the one hand, the very strong demand on the Armenian side that at some point we can go towards self-determination, whether there is, in one way or another, an opportunity for the population to express itself on self-determination. On the other hand, when we speak with the President and the authorities in Baku, the request relates first to the military withdrawal of Armenians from the occupied area and, therefore, also to the return of persons who have been displaced, i.e. 600,000 or 700,000 people. I visited the sites in and around Baku where these displaced persons are located. We see very clearly that the will is to keep them in a number of spaces reserved for them to show that one day there will be a return. It must be said that a young generation was born in Baku and the region. She was not born in Nagorno-Karabagh at all, but she is still in the same community because the message is that one day the entire population will be able to return to Nagorno-Karabagh. The difficulty is to see how to reconcile points of view. What was said earlier is very fair. I believe that Mr Dallemagne has come back to this point. We're still in a particularly tense situation to see how to get back around the table. It's been some time now that this incident with the helicopter has occurred. Apart from that, there are incidents all the time. It is repeated all the time that, along the contact line, these incidents really need to stop. Again, efforts have also been made through the Council of Europe to take initiatives in this area. It is these frozen conflicts that unfortunately can be seen in all these partnership countries and for which, for the moment, no solution can be found. I can tell you that in recent days, our colleagues, especially Georgians, even more than Moldovans, have insisted that Georgia be systematically put back on the table. Indeed, there is a quick tendency to focus on Ukraine and to forget that in 2008, there were still very strong reactions to the situation in Abkhazia and South Ossetia. Subsequently, dialogue was resumed with partners, in part with Russia, including between NATO and Russia. When we talk about Ukraine, we tend to leave the other subjects a little aside. We must pay attention to the fact that, in all the conclusions, in particular, again from the Council of Europe yesterday, there is a reference not only to the situation in Ukraine but also, of course, to Georgia or Moldova, and the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan is systematically on the table. Let me conclude by saying that one of the difficulties is to obtain, in most international forums, the same kind of position. I quote a very simple example. As soon as we talk about territorial integrity, you do not necessarily have the support of everyone, and certainly not a Russian agreement to go towards a request for territorial integrity of Ukraine. There are also sometimes other countries, for example, involved in the Nagorno-Karabagh conflict, which also do not want to comment too much on the territorial integrity of Ukraine, while in other places, occupations also exist. Above all, efforts are being made to support all initiatives that have made it possible to put on paper a number of guidelines for a political agreement and to ensure that this agreement is implemented. We need to hang up on this kind of thing. I am thinking in particular of the Minsk Group on the one hand for Nagorno-Karabagh, and the agreement on the Normandy format, which was negotiated in Minsk also for Ukraine. These are references that we can try to draw closer to.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic175x.u24	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answers. As regards the last point, I do believe that there are two principles of law, on the one hand, the self-determination of peoples and, on the other, the integrity of a territory. It is obvious that the Russian position on this issue is also very important. With this occupation of territories around Nagorno-Karabagh, the Russians are still present. It is well known that in Armenia Soviet tanks are present at the borders. If we bring the self-determination of the peoples, obviously there are only Armenians in Nagorno-Karabagh and throughout the area surrounding Nagorno-Karabagh. It's not easy to understand. It's a belt that surrounds Upper Karabagh. Historically, the two countries are obviously fighting in Nagorno-Karabagh, but it is important to know that agricultural land, where the majority of the population has been excluded, forms a belt that is clearly part of Azerbaijan's territory. At one point, we will have to find a solution that will certainly not fix the two partners to 100 per cent, but that will allow them to once again cultivate arable land. Moreover, even if a generation was born around Baku in these houses that have been made available by the government, in their traditions, to return to the land of their ancestors, it is something very important. In addition, it should be stressed that democratic efforts are being made in both countries. To go back to what you said, Minister, I think it is interesting to see how these countries – as we fight against jihadism and radicalism – manage cultural and religious differences with a great openness of mind and a lot of results with regard to religious fanaticism. There are lessons to be learned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic175x.u25	Mr President, this is a question that was tabled some time ago and for which I recently tabled an update. Minister, over a year ago, on April 14, 2014, the Islamist group Boko Haram took 276 teenage girls from school at Chibok High School in Borno, Nigeria. Since then, 57 girls have managed to escape but 219 high school girls still remain in the hands of the ultra-violent Islamist sect. At the time, the abduction of these young girls and their marriage and forced conversion to Islam, announced by Boko Haram, had led to a legitimate wave of global outrage. An online campaign "Bring back our girls" had been circulating, even involving Michelle Obama, the wife of the American president. Today, the media boom has fallen and these high school girls are still captive. We can therefore only welcome the current effort of the Nobel Peace Prize winner, the young Pakistani Malala Yousafzai, who once again calls for real and rapid action to free these hundreds of young high school girls. Of course, I can only agree with her, when she argues that the Nigerian government and the international community "can and must do much more to resolve this crisis", because "nothing has changed since their kidnapping". This situation is indeed inconceivable and one cannot help but think, like Malala, that "if these young girls had been the children of powerful parents, politically or economically, much more would have been done to free them". Therefore, Minister, my questions are simple. What are we doing, what is Belgium, the European Union, the international community and, of course, Nigeria doing to get these girls free as soon as possible? What means of action are available today? Several countries, including France, the United States, the United Kingdom and Canada, had announced the dispatch to Nigeria of specialized and diverse teams to try to save these girls. What about it? What could be Belgium's contribution and initiative in this area? Since March, the Nigerian army's counter-offensive combined with Chad and Cameroon's operations have sometimes seemed to bear fruit, but in varying ways. Since that month, Nigeria could claim to have taken over almost all the territories previously conquered by Boko Haram, thus allowing the release of many prisoners and women abducted by the ultra-Islamic sect. Unfortunately, the high school girls in Chibok have not been found. Minister, do you have more information in this regard? Despite this lack of information on the fate of the abducted high school girls, do you confirm Nigeria's major gains against Boko Haram? We have seen in recent days that in reality some localities have been taken over by Boko Haram. What is still Boko Haram's nuisance capacity today, particularly with regard to populations that he would still have under his control or people that he would always keep captive? Thank you for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic175x.u26	Have you asked all your questions, Mr Dallemagne?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic175x.u27	Mr President, there are several points that I am addressing here that overlap with some of my previous questions concerning this extremely worrying and violent group, as well as the situation of the civilian population, in particular the young girls under its control. I would like us to take stock of the initiatives that can be taken to try to find a solution to this real tragedy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic175x.u28	Minister Abubakar Shekau, head of Boko Haram, said he had made allegiance to the organization "Islamic State". Last July, he had already announced his support for it. This rapprochement is based on their common objective: the establishment of a caliphate and sharia. He intervenes at a time when Boko Haram finds himself in a position of weakness vis-à-vis the alliance of Chad, Cameroon and Niger, and thereby tries to show that he has support. In the face of this situation where the jihadist threat is evolving and becoming global, the international community must be able to adapt its strategy of struggle. According to the experts, the threats must be separated and eliminated one by one, while taking into account the overall aspect of the fight against terrorism. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. What is your view of this situation and its evolution as a result of this rapprochement? What does this new deal and alliance involve at the local level? What actions can Belgium, the European Union and the international community take to help this region of the world in terms of development, diplomacy and military terms? What relay do you have on site? Let me turn to my second set of questions. Boko Haram's cruelty is decidedly endless. This group reportedly captured several hundred women and children in the Nigerian city of Damascus. In northern Nigeria, the Islamist insurgency has already left more than 13,000 people dead and 1.5 million displaced since 2009. Minister, what is the evolution of Boko Haram's regional situation and forces? In your opinion, are regional forces able to defeat these Islamist fighters? Could the attack plan launched by Nigeria and its neighbours — Chad, Niger, Cameroon and Benin — carried out by 8,700 men and endorsed by the African Alliance bear the brunt against a terrorist movement responsible for tens of thousands of victims? What is the attitude of the Nigerian authorities to possible intervention by the international community? Has the subject been addressed? What is the status of the mobilization generated by the Bring Back Our Girls movement about a year ago? Did it bear fruit?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic175x.u29	Mr President, there are few observers in the border region with Nigeria because of the insecurity there, because the bandits of the Boko Haram group are in the area. This makes it difficult to obtain a precise picture of reality on the ground. Although Boko Haram wants to develop an international profile, it should not be forgotten that this phenomenon remains above all a Nigerian issue, certainly with spillover effects in the subregion formed by the Lake Chad basin. In May 2013, President Goodluck Jonathan declared a state of emergency in the northern states – Borno, Yobe, Adamawa. Since then, the security situation in north-east Nigeria has unfortunately deteriorated further. The removal of more than 250 schoolgirls in Chibok in mid-April 2014 constituted the summit of a long series of terrorist acts perpetrated since 2009 and once again drew international attention to the security problem in Nigeria. At the beginning of January 2015, Boko Haram attacked the garrison city of Baga, near Lake Chad, with several hundreds to around 2 000 victims, depending on the sources. Since the decision of 20 January 2015 in Niamey on the operationalisation of a multinational joint task force, there has been increased and successful military engagement on the ground, in particular in Chad and Niger, with operations on the territory of Niger. Belgium welcomes the gradual establishment of the regional response to counter the barbarism of Boko Haram, in particular through the deployment of troops on both sides of Lake Chad – the joint international force of 10,000 men. Since the meeting of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs and Defence of the Commission of the Lake Chad Basin and Benin on 20 January in Niamey, an increased and effective commitment has been made, in particular by Chad and Niger, with operations on the territory of Nigeria. You asked me how I looked at the evolution of this situation and the rapprochement between Boko Haram and the so-called "Islamic State". At the end of August 2014, after the conquest of the city of Goza in the east of Borno, the leader of the Islamist group Boko Haram, Shekau, had already proclaimed an Islamic caliphate like the Iraqi-Syrian group Daesh alias the so-called "Islamic State". However, there cannot be two caliphates according to the Sahih Muslim, that is, one of the main collections of hadiths considered the safest of Sunni Islam. They will probably settle their theological interpretation conflicts together... This proclamation and Boko Haram's allegiance to Daesh at the beginning of March are above all propaganda. Indeed, this act of allegiance benefits each of the two groups. Both need a propaganda effort to support the morale of their troops, who suffer setbacks in their respective terrorist campaigns. For Boko Haram, it is a propaganda victory as he faces a coordinated offensive by several armies in the region, the joint multinational force. Boko Haram uses it to seem more powerful than it is likely in reality. I recall that, in the past, Boko Haram had already made allegiance to Al Qaeda, a group that stands out from this so-called "Islamic State". The allegiance to the Islamic State could bring Boko Haram closer to groups affiliated with Daesh in Libya, with which he is probably in contact via the arms smuggling networks that crisscross the Sahel. With regard to the abductions and releases that could be obtained, in particular as a result of the Bring Back Our Girls campaign launched a year ago, it is primarily the Nigerian government's responsibility to protect its citizens. The European Union and Belgium do not hesitate to remind him of this obligation. The Foreign Affairs Council of 12 May 2014 had already reached conclusions on these Nigerian high school girls abducted by Boko Haram. In mid-March, the Belgian ambassador to Abuja had an interview with the president of the Bring Back Our Girls movement, Ms. Obiageli Ezekwesili. She served as Minister of Education and Deputy Director of Africa at the World Bank for five years. This person is quite idealistic but, regarding the abduction of schoolgirls, he immediately engaged in a campaign to bring back the victims and facilitate their reintegration into society. So this lady can also be very pragmatic. Some 50 children could have escaped from Boko Haram's hands since April 2014. We are aware that the release of all victims will be very difficult, as will their reintegration into the family. But we can, together with Mrs Ezekwesili, advocate the creation of a separate village where traumatized girls, once returned, can be accompanied by psychologists, with or without their families, and follow a school path. I repeat, so far, about fifty could have fled. You are asking me what actions we can take at national level, but also within the European Union and the United Nations. The fundamental values shared by Nigeria and the European Union are the key to overcoming terrorism. They include an open society, respect for the rule of law and respect for human rights and freedoms. Over the past year, the Security Council has twice spoken out against Boko Haram in a press release. This happened a first time after the particularly heavy series of attacks in April 2014, and then in May 2014 following the kidnapping of the school girls in Chibok. On 22 May 2014, at the request of Nigeria, the United Nations Security Council included Boko Haram in the list of groups close to Al-Qaeda to be punished. A week later, this decision was transposed into European legislation, i.e. Implementing Regulation No 583/2014. As a Member State of the European Union, Belgium could only welcome this decision. Through a Presidency statement and a press statement on 19 January and 2 February 2015 respectively, UN Security Council members urged the region to strengthen regional military operations and improve coordination in order to combat Boko Haram more effectively. At a meeting of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Defence of the Lake Chad Basin Commission in Niamey on 20 January, it was decided to establish a multinational joint task force in Ndjamena and to proceed with its operationalisation, so far with some success on the ground. At the end of January, the 15-member Peace and Security Council of the African Union approved the deployment of the mission with 700-800 soldiers, policemen and civilians. On the basis of the AU mandate, Commissioner Ismael Chergui for Peace and Security asked the UN Security Council to give its assent to regional initiatives. Although the African motion for a resolution on the multinational joint task force originally established a mandate under Chapter VII of the UN Charter, Nigeria suddenly expressed its preference for a chapter VI mandate at the end of March 2015. With this, the African unit was broken. The members of the United Nations Security Council have therefore not yet expressed their views on the mandate they wish to give to this regional operation. This will depend essentially on the political choices of the new Nigerian president in his strategy against Boko Haram. The Member States of the European Union continue to support Nigeria's fight against terrorism, including through interventions financed from the budget lines of the European Union's Instrument for Stability and the African Peace Facility and the African Union. For example, Belgium is participating in the global effort to combat the scourge represented by Boko Haram in the selection of development projects under the eleventh European Development Fund, amounting to EUR 512 million. Particular attention will also be paid to projects in northern Nigeria. In the conclusions of the Foreign Affairs Council of 9 February 2015, the Member States of the European Union expressed their deep concern about the deteriorating situation and expressed their willingness to support the region in the fight against Boko Haram together with the UN, EU organisations and regional organisations, the states concerned and the Global Counter Terrorism Forum. My services do not have detailed information on the financing of Boko Haram, but banditism, extortion, ransom and illegal trafficking may be the main source of income for the terrorist movement. Although Boko Haram hardly uses the regular banking system, it is hoped that the decision of the UN Security Council and the European Union will have a deterrent effect on arms suppliers and financiers. The problems of internally displaced persons and refugees to neighbouring countries are already closely monitored by the relevant humanitarian organisations. In accordance with their respective mandates, they have taken the necessary steps to formulate an appropriate response to the exceptional and special crisis situation, including due to the continuing threat to the aid workers. In the northeast of Nigeria, according to UNICEF figures from mid-April 2015, around 800 000 children had to flee their homes to escape from Boko Haram. They were kidnapped, recruited by armed groups, attacked or forced to flee the violence. The number of child refugees has more than doubled in one year, according to the UN Children's Fund. Most children are now elsewhere in Nigeria or have fled to Chad, Niger or Cameroon. According to the UN Emergency Aid Office, Boko Haram would have killed around a thousand civilians in the first three months of 2015. The extremists also commit countless human rights violations, including sexual violence and child trafficking. I would like to conclude by saying that the way in which the new President has chosen to put the fight against terrorist groups at the forefront obviously has an impact on how international mobilization can develop. I hope that this will indeed lead to more and more concrete effects on the ground. But I repeat, there does seem to be a weakening of the organization at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic175x.u30	Minister, I would like to thank you for your very detailed answer. I encourage you to keep this issue at the top of the agenda. This is a terrible tragedy for these young girls, for these people. I remain concerned about the development of the situation. We have seen some victories against this Boko Haram group but recently, unfortunately, they have taken over some territories. Like you, I welcome the determination of the new President. Everything we can do to support him in his fight against this barbaric group – in your words – will be important not only for the region but also for stability in Africa. It is known how this type of group can inspire riparian populations or groups and do oil work. It is therefore also a matter of containing their dangerousness.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic175x.u31	Mr Minister, I thank you for all these clarifications about this scourge whose origins touch on ethnic dimensions, not to say tribal, economic, of course, and certainly – as you have said – theological. Let us remain attentive to this development and try to encourage governments to fight against this barbaric movement.
