ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u1	Minister, this question was originally addressed to the Prime Minister, but apparently he didn't feel like answering it himself and he forwarded it to you. That is a sign of confidence in these difficult times. In the autumn of 2013, Belgacom became known to have been the target of a hacking. That came to light in documents distributed by Edward Snowden, who still worked for the NSA. This also turned out to be true after research by a Dutch firm hired by Belgacom. Recently it has been found that the software used for hacking would be American-British make-up. Regin is known as high-tech, groundbreaking espionage software. It could stay under the radar of the antivirus programs at Belgacom and copy passwords and forward screenshots, among other things, undisturbed. Following the new revelations, I have the following questions, Minister. Can you confirm that the attack on Belgacom happened with the malware Regin and that it was done by intelligence services of friendly nations like the United States and or the United Kingdom? What is the reaction of the Belgian Government to the fact that friendly nations are behind these actions? That question is also why I addressed the question to the Prime Minister. I take it the government won't just leave that blue-blue. What steps will you take with regard to those responsible for espionage by foreign intelligence services? What message and action will the government take against the American and British governments? What was the attack aimed at? Was it intended purely to obtain political and diplomatic information or are there any indications that economic information was also endorsed? Were our intelligence agencies aware of the attack? What actions will you take to make that impossible in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u2	In the autumn of 2013, Belgacom became known to have been the target of hacking. That came to light in documents distributed by NSA whistleblower, Edward Snowden. It also turned out to be true after research by a Dutch firm hired by Belgacom.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u3	Mr Minister, you simply repeat my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u4	Isn't that what they call a Letermeke doing? I come to the answers to your questions, Mr Van Hecke. The hacking of Belgacom's computer systems happened with new generation malware, which is obviously sophisticated and hard to detect. Currently, the courts and courts are conducting an investigation to determine who is behind the hacking and what the motives are. The Belgian Government will not take a position until the end of the investigation and on the basis of the results. Based on the malware encryption techniques, it was not possible to find out what information the hackers were looking for or what information was taken. The information collected during the investigation indicates that the persons responsible for the hacking attempted to obtain information about Belgacom's organisation as well as technical data. The international network, via the branch Bics of Belgacom, was the main target, but it was not possible to find out what information would have been stolen. The intelligence services, in particular ADIV and State Security, were notified by Belgacom. Belgacom has taken important actions to strengthen cyber security, including an investment plan of €50 million over a period of 4 years, from 2014 to 2017. The Belgian State will make a new cybersecurity centre operational.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u5	There is not only a technical aspect, but also a correctional aspect. We will have to wait for the outcome of the judicial investigation to obtain more and final information. However, it is already clear that these are not private organisations, but public authorities. Everyone is looking in the direction of the United States and Great Britain. That was also the contents of Snowden's information. Of course, you can say we're waiting for the criminal investigation. But if, after five or ten years, it turns out that the British secret service is behind it, are we going to tell them that he can't do that anymore? You know very well that it comes from that direction. I'm expecting a powerful signal. I have the impression that our government, just as it did after leaking the file, does not have much sense and courage to speak clearly, unlike Heads of State or Government of other countries. I expect a firmer response. It's about friendly nations, so much is clear. We really can't accept that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u6	Madam President, Minister, I am sure you will agree that mobile telephony is now of great importance to families, businesses and the economy in general. A malfunction in the mobile phone network can therefore cause serious inconvenience. As we work more and more in cloud, the same goes of course for failures of the Internet. Fortunately, large-scale and long-term malfunctions have not occurred on our territory so far, but better safe than sorry. It can always happen by accident or malicious intent. It is therefore important to ensure continuity. It is not so much about force majeure or excessive use, as with Pukkelpop, but rather about a small-scale incident with one operator. One possible solution is for operators to share access to each other's mobile network in the event of a large-scale or long-term malfunction. The customers of the affected operator can then continue to call and text, keep in touch and give a sign of life, via another network. Not only individuals, but also companies can then continue to work and communicate. For example, they are assured of the service and the operators guarantee each other in the event of major failures. In the Netherlands, such a scheme was introduced in response to a large-scale power failure in 2012. So that's where it's possible. Mobistar customers are supposed to use Proximus for a break, just to give an example. Of course, such arrangements require clear agreements. It is not intended to allow abuse between competitors. Of course, such agreements should not discourage investment and therefore provision should be made for a kind of right of use or payment by the operator when a customer of an operator suddenly communicates via another operator. Mr Minister, first of all, do you recognise the need for an emergency scenario for malfunctions in a mobile telephone network? Secondly, do you know the Dutch case? Have you learned lessons from that? Are there any issues that your cabinet or BIPT has studied and which are also applicable here? Thirdly, what appointments, roadmaps or scenario scenarios exist today to limit the impact in the event of a failure of a mobile network? Fourthly, do you provide for consultation with operators to make arrangements for such situations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u7	Madam President, Mr Dedecker, as you say, the operation of telecommunications is vital for our society and our economy. Therefore, these services should be as reliable as possible. Under the telecoms Act, BIPT decided in April 2014 that operators should report security incidents of a certain magnitude. Based on these reports, BIPT may impose measures to increase network security and safeguard its continuity. The Dutch example, whereby mobile operators can use each other's network in the event of long-term failures to guarantee the service, is indeed quite unique in the world. It is unclear whether such regional roaming will work in practice because there is no guarantee that there will be sufficient network capacity on the remaining networks to deal with traffic from one network to another. In the light of a possible shutdown, BIPT has focused on limiting the impact on the continuity of mobile networks in the event of controlled power interruptions. In a working group headed by the BIPT, operators have examined their interdependencies and taken measures to minimise them. At the request of the crisis centre, a watch service was set up at the BIPT to act as coordinator of the telecoms sector in case the planned power cuts would take place. On the basis of this experience, it will be considered how the operation of this watchkeeping service can be extended to unplanned situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. The fact that we need a switch-off plan is scandalous, but it also means an opportunity to learn lessons from it for unplanned situations. I'm curious.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u9	The federal, Flemish and local authorities can contact Fedict for certificates for the security of their servers and networks. Such a certificate guarantees the identity of a particular server and the associated set of encryption keys, so that communicating systems can recognise and trust each other. That certificate shall be signed by a certificate authority, a third party confirming the identity of the certificate holder and signing the certificate with its own private key. As a registration authority, Fedict manages those applications, issuing new certificates or renewing existing certificates by a recognised CA............................................................................................................................................................................................ On 22 December last year, local authorities were told that Fedict will stop issuing and renewing those certificates from 1 February 2015. That was very short notice. As a reason for this, savings are indicated by Fedict. How many applications for new or renewed certificates does Fedict receive annually from the different authorities? What is the cost for Fedict for the production of the certificates by the CA and its own added service? What savings do you intend to make with this? I'm afraid it's gonna be a sham saver. The public authorities will now have to buy the certificates elsewhere. They can no longer make use of the volume discounts or the contractual framework given by Fedict. Doesn't it eventually threaten to become more expensive for the government as a whole, including the local authorities? In what way is the termination in line with the government agreement, according to which the group purchase of ICT services and other services should become the norm? This is where I think we are taking a step back, because the group purchase is stopped. How many certificates have been applied for since the announcement and deadline? I am thinking of the housing bonus with an accelerated increase in registration fees. Has there been such a thing for those certificates? Are you prepared to postpone the deadline for applications, which has now expired, to allow local authorities and other administrations to find another supplier and conclude a corresponding contract?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u10	Mr Dedecker, I can answer your first question that in 2014 788 certificates were applied for and issued to non-federal entities for a total amount of EUR 110 320, which amounts to EUR 140 per certificate, including VAT. The production of the certificate in accordance with the applicable standards is carried out by the certificate supplier, in this case Certipost. The own added service includes the verification of the application form of the certificate, the creation of the certificate and the delivery of the certificate. A service desk employee spends on average about 20 minutes per certificate application, which amounts to 32 days for 788 certificates. Calculated at an average cost of 450 euros including VAT per business day, this amounts to 14 400 euros. For the federal government, the savings made on the basis of the 2014 figures will be at least 110 320 euros, excluding the hours worked by the service desk staff. For Fedict, this means real savings in operational operating costs, while for non-federal entities this means a minimum additional cost in their budget of up to 190 euros, including VAT, for a three-year certificate. That measure applies only to non-federal entities and therefore does not conflict with the federal government agreement. In addition, the government agreement specifies that the joint purchase of ICT and other services should become the norm in order to benefit from volume reductions. The government agreement does not specify that this should be financed by a single federal government administration. Since the announcement, 122 applications for certificates have been made until 13 January 2015. We do not currently see an abnormal increase in the number of licence applications compared to last year. We see little added value in postponing this deadline, because in this way we run the risk of only partially achieving the planned savings. The online applications for certificates are sufficiently automated. The unit price for certificates is sufficiently low to limit the lead time for the purchase of a new certificate to a maximum of 48 hours. About six weeks are planned between the mid-December announcement and the deadline on 31 January.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u11	Minister, if I understand correctly, Fedict buys these certificates for EUR 140. The municipalities that want to buy a certificate directly, without a volume discount, pay 190 euros. That is a difference of 25%. That's not very small. The savings of 110 000 euros for Fedict will be total, 110 000 + 25 %, 136 000 euros for the municipalities. I'm afraid that's not exactly a saving. It can indeed be said that it is not up to one public service to pay, but it must nevertheless be possible to make a different arrangement. Now the government pays a total of 25% more. I don't think that's healthy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u12	Mr. Dedecker, until the deadline, the municipalities didn't pay anything. It was free and Fedict took the cost. The difference between 140 and 190 euros is due to the service that lies between them. Fedict paid 140 euros for the purchase of the certificates at Certipost. I was talking about the service desk employee's work. That's what's on top of that. If the municipalities now pay 190 euros, you must assume that part of it is for the certificate and another part for the processing. It is not that the price is suddenly 25% higher. You must charge the combination of the two. If something has become more expensive, then of course the municipalities did not pay anything in the past, while they now pay the cost of the services and the product they buy. They used to be worn by Fedict.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u13	Thank you for that addition, Minister. However, this is only to a certain extent true. You say that per certificate application a 20-minute time spent by a service desk employee is expected. One can only speak of real savings if that task is completely lost and one can fill in the time spent with new, useful tasks, which add value for the government. However, there is no certainty about this. It is better to use economies of scale and to settle with the municipalities, where there is an effective type of payment. Now the costs are being passed on. I think there are better possibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u14	Madam President, Minister, you have recently revealed in the press, probably in response to a question from our colleague, Deseyn, the list of areas less well served by 3G and 4G mobile telephony technologies, which allow access to the mobile Internet in Belgium. These include Burg-Reuland, Momignies, Raeren, Viroinval, Amel and Bullange. You added that with the exception of these six communes, all located in Wallonia, all the others are covered with a level above 99.9% of the population. These statements leave me puzzled because in my region I can mention at least two communes, Bièvre and Vresse, which do not yet benefit from 4G coverage. In addition, there are areas within these two municipalities that are still completely outside the traditional gsm network coverage. We're not talking about 4G or 3G here. There's nothing! I therefore believe that, in these two cases, we are still far from being able to claim the 99.9% coverage to which you are referring. Mr Minister, can you therefore describe to me the method of investigation which led to the assertion of these figures? A lack of knowledge of the reality of the facts seems obvious to me, since there is no mention of the two communes in question. More specifically, what measures do you intend to implement in order to be able to offer high-quality network coverage (gsm, 3G or 4G) to areas still underserved by mobile technologies? When can we expect these changes to take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u15	Mr Clarinval, thank you for your question. The coverage figures released following a parliamentary question are based on data provided by mobile operators to the IBPT in October 2014. Coverage means outside, out-of-building coverage by at least one 3G network or 4G network. The municipalities of Bièvre and Vresse-sur-Semois are fully covered in 3G by a mobile operator. On the other hand, they are not in 4G. One of the three mobile operators, as is the case with Mobistar, must cover at least 98% of the population of sixty communes with a minimum flow rate of 3 megabits per second before the end of November 2016 by 3G or 4G. Bièvre and Vresse-sur-Semois are among these sixty priority communes. Compliance in terms of coverage will be reviewed by the IBPT. During this year, the IBPT will have to verify the reliability of the data provided by mobile operators.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u16	Mr Minister, this confirms that, in these two municipalities, if you want to have a gsm network, you have to call outside - and that is all the time. There's 20 centimeters of snow today. It's infernal! You do not seem to realize how exasperated these people are by this file. Petitions have been circulating for years. That is why this advertisement claiming that 99% of people are covered is unacceptable. I know who installed devices such as Faraday's cages on their roofs in order to capture a little bit of network. The self-employed who work in this area do not have one – whether they are veterinarians, farmers, etc. This situation constitutes a real economic and social handicap. A journalist from the Standaard lives in my commune. When he has to send an e-mail, he takes his car and goes to the neighbouring town. He connects to it, sends his e-mail, then returns home. I don't know if you realize! I sincerely believe that the figures given are not valid and that the services developed are insufficient. I hear that 60 communes are still in short supply. This seems more reasonable to me than the six municipalities mentioned. I appeal to you, Minister, to encourage operators to take into account these last municipalities that are affected by this lack of connection – and I am not even talking about the Internet. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u17	Indeed, given the way you explain it, I will ask the operators to confront them with this situation and examine how to find a faster solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u18	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u19	Madam President, Minister, the Royal Decree of 15 July 2013 on private radio communications and rights of use for fixed networks and shared-fund networks reformed the rates for microwaves, known as category B. In the first instance, the aim was to reduce tariffs, since the rates in Belgium were very high compared to neighbouring countries. My questions were answered in part last week during the hearing with the BIPT. The study by Analysys Mason to which I refer, carried out at the time of Secretary of State Van Quickenborne, shows that our rates were up to four times higher than in Germany. During that hearing, BIPT gave an overview and said that in recent years the rates were reduced by a total of 20% by the various interventions, both under the then Secretary of State Van Quickenborne and under then Minister Vande Lanotte, while the original proposal of BIPT at the time of former Secretary of State Van Quickenborne was reduced by 85%. That's a big difference, isn't it? How do today's rates relate to rates in neighbouring countries? To what extent has the gap with neighbouring countries, particularly Germany, been bridged in relation to the gap that Analysys Mason demonstrated at the time? What evaluation do you therefore make of this royal decision and what follow-up do you intend to give to it? The hearing with the BIPT showed that there is still some room for reduction. I remind you of the outcome of the study of Analysys Mason. If this is reduced, there will be more market play with regard to leased lines and there could even be an increase in revenue. Just think of the example of registration fees. What are your plans? What are the rates by royal decree?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u20	Madam President, Mr Dedecker, at the request of the BIPT, the consultants of Analysys Mason and Hogan & Hartson carried out a study in 2009 which showed that Belgian tariffs for the use of jet connections were significantly higher than in other European countries. The study recommended that Belgium reduce the amount of allowances for the use of jet connections. The Royal Decree of 15 July 2013 reduced the amounts by an average of 20%. The number of jet connections used has increased, as expected, which has indeed compensated for the fall in tariffs, as you yourself pointed out. The total amount of revenue from charges for the use of jet connections is now higher than in the period prior to the tariff reduction. I asked BIPT to update the 2009 figures. On this basis, it will be examined how much budgetary space there is to further reduce the rates for microwaves.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u21	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your hopeful reply. In fact, it is very important that the 20% reduction should now make it practically effective that the overall revenue for the government, namely for BIPT and indirectly for the government, has increased. This is a very important observation, which only invites us to continue along this path. You state that there will be a review of whether there is budgetary space. However, we should not ask whether there is room. Rather, we need to ask how much more we want to get through a reduction. Because it's the other way around.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u22	Minister, in Australia, the ISPS (Internet Service Provider) are working on a code to combat online infringements of copyrighted material. That code will be carried by ACMA, the Australian regulator and thus counterpart to the BIPT. All Australian ISPs will join in that story. This code aims not only to warn users of possible infringements, but also to sensitise them to the illegal sharing of documents and the great potential of illegal content on the Internet. In addition, the emphasis is placed on the legal alternatives. That last point is, of course, very important. It is also important that service providers do not take concrete sanctions against their customers. That responsibility lies with the authorities. A similar measure is also being considered in the Netherlands. I have provided you with a link in the written version of my question. There too, we are talking about a system of warnings combined with a positive message of alternatives. In Belgium, there is a DNS blockage where one ends up on a STOP page of the FCCU when one surfs to a website that was blocked by a judge. It's very easy to get around. For lovers, you use DNS888 and the problem is solved. In short, I believe that there is a fundamental problem with censorship and symptom control. Moreover, there is little information on that STOP page, let alone a referral to legal alternatives. Firstly, to what extent do you consider such a code, proposed from the sector, useful and possibly in this country? The support of the operators is, of course, necessary. To what extent have you already consulted the operators on the subject? Secondly, how can the government support such a code? Thirdly, to what extent do you want to include warnings, awareness and sanctions in such a code? What are your views on the current system of the DNS blockade and blockages in general?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u23	The above mentioned initiatives concern the introduction of a protocol involving the ICPs in the fight against copyright infringements on the Internet. Their specific national and legal context needs to be considered. I will not dwell on that. I do, however, provide the written description of the specific legal context in the Netherlands and Australia. The fight against copyright infringements on the Internet is a crucial but particularly complex item, given the wide variety of rights, fundamental freedoms and interests at stake: those of copyright holders, those of online intermediaries and those of Internet users. It is a difficult balancing exercise, since different technical aspects must be taken into account as well as developments at European level. The concerns have already led to three legislative proposals submitted in 2010 and to a consultation of the sector in the Intellectual Property Council. On 29 June 2012, he issued an opinion on the enforcement of copyright and related rights on the Internet. It sets out the broad lines on which there is a broad consensus and highlights some models of comparative law to which Belgium could be inspired. In summary, it contains the following main lines of action. Firstly, it is in the general interest that copyright is also effectively applied to the Internet. A status quo is not an option. The measures should provide legal certainty and predictability. Secondly, there is no unique legal model. An overall strategy and an arsenal of measures need to be developed. The preferred approach should be a pedagogical approach, rather than a repressive approach and an improvement in the legal arsenal. Thirdly, priority must be given to dealing with people who are clearly illegally offering content on the Internet. Fourthly, for those who download, a pedagogical approach should preferably be chosen, such as sensitisation. With these guidelines and sources of inspiration as a starting point, we will have to consider a balanced legal framework that will enable effective action to be taken against large-scale copyright infringements on the Internet. Within this legal framework, private initiatives of self-regulation should also be included. The establishment of a code by the sector, which is the subject of your question, is therefore an option which must be considered in a wider context, with a view to coherence. Now I come to your second question. The government could support such an initiative, in so far as it is carried out within a broader legal framework, which can ensure the balance and objectives listed, both in respect of enforcement of copyright in the event of large-scale infringements and in respect of education and improvement of the legal arsenal. It is clear, however, that it makes little sense to place the burden of combating copyright infringements and related rights on the Internet solely on the shoulders of intermediaries, whether technical, financial or commercial. To your third question, I can answer that the actions for sensitisation and warning are an interesting piste, which must be looked at in the light of, firstly, the rights of Internet users, which must be identified, which we know is a personalised IP address, and secondly, the freedoms of entrepreneurship of Internet providers, which must only bear the costs of introducing such procedures. Experiences from France, America and England now show that such warning mechanisms are absolutely not a miracle solution and are not very popular. The educational aspect needs to be considered in greater depth. We must aim for solutions that are not only operational but also uphold the rights of everyone. Currently, systems of lists are being introduced in some countries, e.g. an educational white list of websites that ensure a legal framework or a blacklist of websites that commit large-scale infringements. To sum up, your questions about private initiatives aimed at educating Internet users, through the ICPs, are certainly an important issue in the fight against copyright infringements and infringements of related rights on the Internet. These initiatives must be understood, on the one hand, in conjunction with the specific context of the countries you represent, and, on the other hand, as an element of a more general policy, which must be implemented in a balanced, coherent manner and in consultation with the various actors of the environments concerned and with the public authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer, which also gives you access to the wider framework. I would also like to thank you for the written version, which you will deliver to me. You referred to the legal context. As you have pointed out, a whole range of measures is indeed needed, in particular both the pedagogical approach of providers and the sensitisation of downloaders, which is very well done and, of course, respect for fundamental fundamental rights. The latter seems obvious to me. It also seems obvious to me that the burden of this is not being placed on the shoulders of the ICPs. That is why I came up with a kind of initiative from the bottom up, that is, an approach from the ICPs themselves, which see the measure not as a burden imposed, but as an initiative themselves. I think that's a good thing. This must indeed be looked at in the wider context. However, as you yourself point out, the first steps in this area date back to 2010. A global, comprehensive approach is needed, but it should not paralyze initiatives that can emerge from the bottom up, that fit in with the approach and have added value. We must not be paralyzed by these things. We must also dare to take small steps forward in anticipation of the larger picture.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u25	Mr Minister, at the works council on 12 December last, Infrabel indicated that he wanted to settle the software and telecommunications subsidiary Syntigo. Syntigo is responsible, among other things, for the commercialisation of many telecom services and has an excellent network of optical fibres and well-equipped data centres. I'm sure you know that history. You know that Belgacom wanted to take over Scarlet, her biggest competitor on the DSL network in November 2008. Belgacom was authorised by the Competition Council, provided that the 1 400 km fibre network was sold along industrial sites and local telephone exchanges. Belgacom was of course not interested in that network at all because it itself has a much better network. However, they were interested in the large customer portfolio. Therefore, that network was sold to the public undertaking Syntigo in July 2009, where Belgacom might be in slightly safer hands than if a new competitor had emerged from it on the business market. The imminent liquidation of Syntigo recalls that painful history. Given your ambition to boost competition in the fixed Internet and telephony market, I would like to know what consequences you see for the liquidation of Syntigo on the business market and what opportunities you may see to make our markets more competitive. As I said, Scarlet's network is in there. That network was pretty good, especially along a number of industrial sites. When we talk about a lack of competition in the business market, that seems interesting. Of course, the continuation of activities is still possible, while Minister Galant's intention is also to cut the number of subsidiaries of the SNCB Group. In the meantime, I have heard that the cables along railway lines will not be sold, but there is no knowledge yet of the cables along the industrial sites. To what extent do you discuss this with your fellow Minister, Mr Galant, and on what lines are you in this regard? What possibilities do you see?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u26	The infrastructure that Syntigo took over from Scarlet mainly includes glass fibres in the transport network and no access to the consumer. That is why this infrastructure is of particular interest to operators that focus on companies. A market analysis for BIPT leased lines shows that Syntigo is one of the main alternative operators for leased lines. Customers are mainly other communication operators, which can have an impact on competition and competition depending on which scenario SNCB prefers Syntigo. To date, the intentions of the SNCB Group have not been known. There has been no consultation with Minister Galant on this matter. As regards competition in the business market, the European Commission first defined a separate market for business users in October 2014. The BIPT must now analyse that market within a three-year deadline and, if a market failure is identified, develop appropriate measures to stimulate competition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u27	It is true, Minister, that it is still waiting for the market analysis and for Europe's decision on the business market as a whole. In the meantime, I do not think it would be a bad thing to sit with Minister Galant on this too and see what opportunities there are for boosting competition in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u28	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, in your answer to a parliamentary question that I asked you in this same committee about the Alpha project under way at bpost, you would reply that you would get the results of this analysis by the end of 2014. It's now 2015. That is why, Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to come back to you with a few questions. Can you provide us with specific information on the results of this analysis of more than 3,200 workplaces at bpost? What are the next actions decided by management following this analysis? With regard to social consultation, have you ever met with the trade unions following the results of this analysis? Can you give us a precise schedule of these meetings?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u29	Madam President, dear colleague, it is true that in September 2014, bpost launched an analysis that will define the future organisational model of support services; this is the Alpha project. In a changing environment, the company has been changing for the last few years to ensure a sustainable position as a postal operator. Despite the growth achieved through packages, new products and solutions, the decline in the volume of mail requires continued efforts. Alpha analysis is still in progress. It would therefore be premature to anticipate the results and measures that could be taken. Indeed, we had planned the end of this analysis for 2014; after information has been received, it is still in progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u30	Deputy Prime Minister, I trusted you when you said that the analysis would be completed by the end of December, but in February this is still not the case. I'd be tempted to ask you when you're going to get the results, but I won't. No doubt you don't know it yet; if you know it, tell me, but it will probably not be right. I will therefore follow the wise advice of our experienced president: I will come back to you shortly, hoping that this time the answer you will give me will be complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u31	I would like to point out that the answer I gave you at that time was based on the information in my possession. It is therefore not appropriate to say that the answer was not correct: I was told that the date would be at the end of the year. Turns out, in reality, that's not the case, but I didn't lie to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u32	Deputy Prime Minister, that's not what I said. Your answer was not just because the information that that person gave was not fair. Be assured that in no way did I accuse you of lying to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u33	Deputy Prime Minister, you see that I do not lose confidence as I continue to question you. Be assured that I will come back to the committee again to question you! Since 2005, bpost has been asking Belgians about their habits. Recently, almost 350 000 Belgian households have reportedly received a bpost questionnaire in their mail, which the company says is intended to "increase their chances of receiving advertising mail that is of real interest to them". This is a very detailed twelve-page questionnaire, focusing on purchasing habits such as "what are you reading, what are your leisure activities, in what accommodation do you live in, what are your travels, what are you travelling, what is your telephone operator?" or even more detailed questions, which go far enough in intimacy: "What is your family situation and what are your ways of life?" All this can change, of course! "Do you intend to change your mutuals, do you have any credits in progress, do you collect stamps, or do you buy naughty items?" This SelectPost service, usually sent twice a year, has existed since 2005 – so it is not the product of your initiative. He had been pinned in 2011 by the Commission de la protection de la vie de la vie de la vie de la vie de l'activité, which criticized him, inter alia, for not making it clear that the answer to this questionnaire was not mandatory. It also noted that some older persons, in particular, could be abused by the "official" side of this letter sent by a public company. Since 2012, the reference to "optional response" is now prominent, both on the envelope and the letter accompanying the questionnaire. Deputy Prime Minister, therefore, my questions are as follows. Are you aware of the existence of such a questionnaire sent by bpost? How are households and people who receive it selected? What is the percentage of responses received? How many people and households does this represent in Belgium? What does bpost do with the data collected? Are they marketed? If so, what are the companies purchasing these data? What steps are being taken by bpost to ensure the privacy and privacy of respondents?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u34	Dear colleague, I know the questionnaire, but I have not answered it. The SelectPost investigation falls within the scope of bpost's commercial activities and, therefore, does not fall directly within my jurisdiction. However, bpost informs me that the objective is to allow consumers to choose the mails that interest them according to their preferences, habits and projects. The data collected are then marketed by the company to advertisers wishing to reach customers interested or potentially interested in their products or services. SelectPost is a valuable medium for advertising mail addressed. The identity of companies acquiring this information is, of course, strictly confidential. This survey has been conducted regularly since 2005 as you have indicated. More than 800,000 households responded to the questionnaire. This questionnaire is sent to individuals who have already responded in the past. It is also sent to households listed in databases leased to database providers. Any person indicating that he or she no longer wishes to receive the questionnaire is deleted from the database. The response rate to this questionnaire is around 20 per cent. With respect to privacy aspects, I cannot comment on the substance because it is outside the purview of the Minister of Public Enterprises. However, I must note that bpost has complied with the regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u35	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u36	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for accepting this question, which was tabled last Friday or Monday morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u37	That's the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u38	This is a very punctual problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u39	Madam President, I do not have the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u40	The question concerns a ticket distributor in Messancy. Does the Minister have jurisdiction over this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u41	Yes, a letter from the commune was sent to the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u42	If the minister does not have the answer and it is a rather sharp subject...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u43	The question is not on my agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u44	Minister, the agenda needs to be checked as Members can table their questions at 11:00 a.m. the day before.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u45	I came specifically from South Luxembourg to ask my little question!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u46	Is the question on the site?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u47	Yes! Members may table their question until the previous day at 11:00 a.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u48	Mr Minister, I would like to ask you, however, because I wanted to add a few things to the written question. Maybe you could answer me in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u49	We will turn the question into a written question and the minister will commit to your prompt response.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u50	It is quite urgent because I have committed myself to the commune to provide it with a quick response. The problem is this one. Messancy is a small town in the southern part of the province of Luxembourg with a population of 8,000. And the only bank agency that still had a ticket distributor will close in the spring. The municipality's request had been made to La Poste to determine whether it could equip itself with a ticket distributor. This request was made under the previous legislature. This was not done because it was not provided for in the investment plan. Given the change of government, the question has again been asked in writing to your cabinet. You responded on January 8. However, the local elected representatives insist on a quick response in this area and on examining the possibility of installing a ticket distributor in the local post office. Indeed, it is located in a border region. It includes shops and the elderly have no other means than to go to the ticket distributor to obtain cash.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u51	Your question has been forwarded to the minister and he undertakes to answer this commission by the end of this week.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u52	Yes? Would that be possible? All right, then! And if this point was not yet activated at the level of the 2015 investment plan, could you, Minister, ensure that this is done and that this municipality is quickly equipped?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic077x.u53	This is not a public service mission, but the minister will answer you!
