ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u1	Questions Nos 2019, 2309 and 2688 by Mr Top lapsed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u2	Madam President, Minister, my question was raised when there was a reconnaissance mission. In the meantime, of course, we are already a few steps further in sending trainers to Iraq. So I'd like to get an update on you. Firstly, what were the findings of the reconnaissance mission regarding the security situation for our soldiers on the ground? Is there a coalition partner who could ensure the necessary protection force? Secondly, what added value can Belgian trainers bring? On the basis of which criteria do you measure that? Thirdly, what is the state of play with regard to progress in the fight against IS? Is it better or more difficult than planned? Can you exclude that Belgian soldiers, whether special forces or not, will go to battle situations or the front line for reconnaissance orders or to assist Iraqi military forces? Fourthly, will Belgium make demands in relation to the composition of the troops it trains and in particular guarantee that Belgium can train Sunni soldiers in order to ensure that the troops are a mirror of the whole society and not just of the Shiite power structures? Fifthly, in return for the deployment of ground forces, will Belgium ask for guarantees, such as guarantees from the Iraqi Government, that military or militia members who have committed war crimes will be effectively prosecuted? Sixthly, what curriculum will Belgian soldiers teach the Iraqi military? How will war law, international humanitarian law and human rights be taught? Can you explain that in detail? Finally, are you investigating the slope to train Iraqi soldiers outside Iraqi territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u3	I am merely asking my question No. 2605 tabled on 27 February to replace my previous question. Minister, the Council of Ministers of 27 February decided to deploy a training detachment of about thirty-five soldiers in Baghdad, for a period of six months, from 1 March 2015. Those military will participate in the training of Iraqi security forces, in a secure location, within the framework of the international coalition against Daesh in Iraq. On 30 January, the Council of Ministers had already decided to send a planning team to Iraq to prepare for this commitment. Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. What is the reason for that decision? Has the government received an official question recently? Which soldiers will leave for Iraq? Which barracks did they come from? Can you explain more about their precise assignment? Will they work alone or will they work with military from other coalition partners? How much is the mission estimated to cost? The planning team previously commissioned to prepare the deployment of a training detachment had to examine whether all the conditions were met to give the green light for the deployment. What were the conditions? According to an article in De Morgen, at that time, Defense was counting on another coalition partner to protect a possible training detachment. What agreements have been made on this? Who will vouch for the protection of our military? Are there any countries that are considering sending a similar detachment?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u4	Madam President, the Council of Ministers has approved the deployment of a team preparing for the dispatch of a train and advisé detachment of Belgian military personnel within the framework of the international coalition fighting against the Islamic State Group. Two military personnel were sent to the special operations headquarters in Baghdad and one planning officer in the coalition headquarters in Kuwait. They must analyse, prepare and coordinate the engagement of a detachment of Belgian instructors. In the face of this new Belgian military contribution to the fight against the terrorists of the Islamic State Group in Iraq, which falls outside the scope of the resolution adopted in the House, I would like to ask you a few questions, Mr Minister. What exactly is this new train and advisory mission? What will be the timetable? How will the safety of our military personnel be ensured on site? Do these new military missions fit within a broader international community framework in contributing to a lasting stabilization of the Iraqi and regional situation? What is the added value of Belgium in this new framework? Since this is an additional mission, what will be the budgetary cost? How can these operations be carried out in hostile terrain, since it will be impossible to purchase current equipment and the training (i.e. security) of our military is more than compromised by the current budget? From the beginning of the operation, it was agreed that the international coalition against the "Islamic State" group should intervene in accordance with the 3D strategy. So far, the intervention of the international coalition has been essentially military. Has the government developed a comprehensive approach to this new mission? What is Iraq's place in the Belgian and European military strategy? Have you ever discussed the region's exit strategy with your European and international counterparts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u5	Madam President, Minister, my questions are very much in line with those of my colleagues. About 30 of our military personnel have arrived in Baghdad since the beginning of the month and will soon be joined by about 10 others. I would like to know how their installation is going. Have they started their trainings. Who are these courses addressed to? We know that in Iraq there is a particular sensitivity which is the balanced formation between Sunnis and Shiites. Do we have specific information about the people we are going to train, among other things from this point of view, but not just? What kind of troops are they? What are we going to train them to? What will be the purpose of our training? Is it weapons handling, tactics, strategy? I would have liked to know the context and the evolution of our presence there. How long is this going to last? What are the elements from Belgium? What is the status of the situation on the spot? We hear that Daesh is going backwards. Is that so? If so, around which cities? I hear that on Tikrit and Mosul, things are moving forward quickly. Do you have the same information? Will allied aviation be involved in the fighting that will take place in the coming days or weeks and that will be fundamental? Mosul is indeed very emblematic. It's a big city. It's also a very complicated fight. It is well known that street fighting in this type of city can lead to heavy civilian casualties. How do you see things? Will aviation, notably Belgian and allied in general, be involved in ground support in relation to these upcoming events? If possible, Minister, I would like to have a comprehensive review of the efforts of the international coalition. Much has been said about the complementary and additional involvement of the Arab countries in this battle. In the horrific murder of this Jordanian pilot, Jordan and the United Arab Emirates were more committed. I would have liked to have your appreciation on this. Is that so? Is there really a consistent commitment on the part of the Arab countries? It is a fundamental political element for the future. What efforts have been made by this coalition and, more specifically, by Belgium? I know that some elements are sensitive, but can you tell us more about the results of the activity of our Belgian F-16s on the ground? Have the strikes been effective? What kind of targets were they carried out, without necessarily revealing all the details? Have any preferred targets been assigned to Belgian forces in Iraq? If so, have there been complications, collateral damage, as they are called pudically? We are therefore based in Baghdad and Jordan. At one point, there was talk of a base in Iraqi Kurdistan in Erbil. Why, in the end, has Baghdad been chosen, since we also had many contacts with the Kurdish Peshmergas, who are doing remarkable work on the ground? Indeed, they have taken over a whole series of villages and towns on the side of the Sinjar Mountains. They deserve extremely important support. Has the selection of Baghdad caused any difficulties on their part? From a political point of view, is the idea of a national guard in which all religious, ethnic groups are represented in Iraq – it is a fundamental element for the future – or is there no progress in this area? I hear Shiite militias are committing abuses in some places. Do you have this type of information? Can we gradually include more Sunni groups in all Iraqi military forces? I would also like to have a state of affairs regarding the progress of the coalition's efforts in Syria? Several cities are under fire in Syria or under extremely severe conditions, including Aleppo. We heard in camera the testimony of people who had managed to flee Aleppo and who had said how abandoned they were by the international community. The Prime Minister recently pledged to the King of Jordan to continue his efforts in Iraq and therefore to remain with the coalition forces. However, we know that our effort, particularly that of the F-16s, is due to end in June. What exactly is the situation? Has a decision been made yet? What would be your forthcoming decision to the Council of Ministers on both the Baghdad component (on-site trainers) and the F-16 component? What should be expected in the coming weeks?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u6	Mr Dallemagne, if you deviate from the question you are asking, I fear that you will not receive an answer. Your questions about the F-16 are covered by item 11, which contains very specific questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u7	Madam President, I'm sorry. This is a debate based on joint issues. I imagine that the minister can adapt a little bit to the current situation. If we were just to ask questions that were written a month ago, it would make no sense or interest to the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u8	Mr Dallemagne, it is certainly not a debate, it is a joint question. I would just like to point out that if you elaborate and ask several questions which are not dealt with in your written submission, the Minister cannot answer them, but those questions will be answered under item 11.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have answered many more questions this morning in the committee responsible for the follow-up of foreign missions than I will be able to do now. The Members of this House who were present will be able to see that. At the Paris Conference on 15 September, some 30 countries committed themselves, at the explicit request of Iraq, to supporting this country by all the necessary means, including military ones, in order to face the potential destabilization of the region, caused by the rise in power of the "Islamic State" movement or, as it is said there, Daesh. The coalition's efforts in the fight against Daesh focused initially on two areas: stopping Daesh's progress and assisting Iraqi security forces in their fight against Daesh. As you know, a Belgian detachment has been developed in Jordan since December as part of the first domain, consisting of six F-16 people and a hundred twenty soldiers. This deployment is planned until the end of June and fits into the budget of the operations 2015 as proposed and approved by the Council of Ministers. A budgetary solution should be sought for a possible extension. Another possibility, which is currently being examined, could be to arrange tours with other countries. In the second domain, which should enable Iraq to have reliable troops in the longer term, which can guarantee the sovereignty of the Iraqi State throughout the territory, the coalition has developed a programme Building Partner Capacity, asking the participating coalition countries to provide trainers and instructors. Since early February 2015, in the context of the reconnaissance mission, one military was deployed at the headquarters in Kuwait and two military forces at the headquarters in Baghdad. They aim, inter alia, to analyse and prepare any further Belgian participation in the coalition's operation against Daesh, particularly with regard to the content of the programme and the safety of the quarter. Since early March 2015, Defence has effectively contributed to the training of Iraqi security forces under the Building Partner Capacity programme. The Belgian detachment is composed of soldiers of the land and medical component. The main effort of the detachment is to assist the Iraqi military and select, train and train new recruits. This training program meets the same standards and standards as the training in Belgium. The Belgian participation is limited to providing training together with colleagues from several European countries and the United States in secure training centres in the vicinity of Baghdad International Airport. There is no direct contact between Belgian trainers and Daesh fighters. I have already said that Baghdad airport is protected in two circles, first by the Iraqi security forces and second by the Americans. We are working with two other European countries on the ground. Mr Dallemagne, the track – already mentioned – which would involve the training of air security forces outside Iraqi territory, in consultation with one or more partner nations, is still being investigated. The budget for this mission, estimated at about €3 million, was taken into account in the case "Belgian Operational Commitment" in 2015, approved by the Council of Ministers on 18 December 2014. For security reasons, no information on the type of units deployed in the fight against Daesh was provided in principle under this public form. Also confidential intentions or plans of our coalition partners in their fight against Daesh cannot be disclosed publicly. As part of the follow-up committee, as I have just mentioned, I have already provided the information I have at my disposal this morning. Finally, Defence focuses solely on the military aspect of the coalition's overall plan against Daesh and leaves it to the other departments to express their views on the other Belgian non-military contributions to the coalition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u10	Madam President, Minister, such a mission must always be very careful, especially in a delicate context as in Iraq. It is our opinion that we should make the mission conditional on a number of measures that can be taken, first and foremost by the Iraqi Government itself. I have asked you a number of questions about this. However, you have not accepted it, unless I am mistaken. It concerns, for example, the composition of the troops that are being trained. There are two options, we know the problem. There is a predominantly Shiite input, both in the government and in the military. It would be good if the Sunni people in Iraq could have a greater say, including in the army. We could, of course, play a role in this with these trainers. When it comes to the prosecution of Iraqi soldiers who have committed war crimes, we see the same thing. A number of international organisations have effectively reported that there are problems in this area. We could, in return for our efforts, ask for work to be done. We have a number of levers in our hands in exchange for the use of trainers. However, we must use these levers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u11	Madam President, Mr De Vriendt, I understand your concern and even share it in part. However, at the end of my reply I also indicated that a number of questions are being asked which are beyond my competence as Minister of Defence. This morning, in the Committee on Defence, I gave an appreciation of a number of encouraging signals about the Iraqi State. As you know, I explained the four different phases here at the time. It is very formal that these phases cannot be separated from each other. However, I am only a Minister of Defence; I am not the strategist in the field of international politics, however, a number of encouraging signals that could go in the direction of improvement. It concerns, among other things, the sharing of security departments between the two groups. So there are a number of signals, which are indicated. However, they fall outside my field of competence, if you know what I mean. I do not therefore determine what foreign policy we are pursuing. I would just like to point out that, in my capacity as Minister of Defence, the international coalition, to which we have been aware, is asking me if we can make a contribution, by providing a number of trainers and top trainers. On that basis, we will continue, with the approval of the government, after the matter has been discussed within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u12	Madam President, Minister, that means that you are unable to enforce the decision on which Iraqi soldiers are trained by the Belgians. However, you can do so through your foreign minister, Minister Reynders.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u13	I did not say that the Foreign Office was authorized to do so, because I do not know that. I'm just saying that the issue is beyond my jurisdiction. We're gonna train people, not recruit them. Nor are we the ones who deliver people for training.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u14	Then we disagree. I remain of the opinion that Belgium, in exchange for sending trainers, should be able to ask those who do decide to ensure that that group of soldiers is a correct reflection of Iraqi society and that it is not about people who have committed war crimes and so on. I believe that it is one of your options, and certainly within the Belgian Government's ability to enforce guarantees in this area before sending trainers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. At the end of September, early October, we adopted a resolution on Belgium's participation in that international coalition against IS. Originally, that resolution also included TAA, which was Train, Advise and Assist. I remember that very well. That was done there, mainly by the socialists, who then shouted very loudly that it was not done to have boots on the ground. We took this out because we wanted a broad-based resolution. However, I never understood that Train, Advise and Assist had to be taken out because it is precisely people who train and advise outside the deployment zone. The Minister has just repeated that this is happening outside the secure zone. Trainers and trainers are of course an added value. I think it's all about use them or loose them. We don't have soldiers to man the barracks. There are people who are very capable of providing these training courses. As far as I am concerned, these people should be deployed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u16	Madam President, thank you. You should have made it clear that the resolution was only for a month. Minister, thank you for your answers. I know that this is also a matter for foreign affairs, but we are living in a world where it is difficult to separate this department from that of defence. With regard to the region's post-crisis situation, have any contacts been made? We know that a strictly military operation, without political follow-up, will find it difficult to stabilize such a situation. Conversely, I do not see an exit from the crisis without a military component to guarantee a minimum of security in Iraq. I thank you already for the clarifications that you will give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u17	It is true that we have registered in a number of modules. Saturday the first course will start. This is now for six months. Then we will evaluate how this continues. I have already said that there are several stages in the fight against Daesh from which we must look at what we consider necessary, what we can do and how we can respond to them in the military field.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u18	Minister, I am a little disappointed and I have to admit that I have been used to longer and more detailed answers on your part. I respect the confidentiality of the Committee on Military Operations abroad, of which I am not a member, but I think that we also have the right to have access to information which, obviously, is widely public today. First, when I ask you about the state of Daesh's forces and ask you if we are gaining ground or losing it, I find it normal and appropriate to have a comment from you on a public commission. We don't reveal a state secret if we say we're rather winning certain victories and if Daesh is more defensive. Anyway, that's what everyone says. We can see public debates in other parliaments, so I think that our Parliament could also have some of this information. Secondly, with regard to the duration of operations, you gave us a response from Normand. You say it depends on the available budget, otherwise we will rotate with other coalition countries. The Prime Minister has been much clearer: he has pledged to stay with the allies. So I don't know the right version. You'll have the Prime Minister's budgets. Have you had any assurances that other partners are ready to take over? There is a formal commitment from Belgium to the King of Jordan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u19	I don't know. We joined the coalition on 15 September 2014 and I think it is necessary that we continue to contribute in one way or another. We warned our partners that we were engaged until the end of June with our F-16s. At the same time, as I have just said, we look to Europe to see who could take over. We are still in the stage of informal conversations and we need to see how we can formalize them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u20	I hope that this is not just a somewhat light statement made by the Prime Minister, because today you have no assurance on the budget. So we don't know what the future of our operations will be after the end of June. I hope that this commitment of the Prime Minister will be fulfilled and that it was not just a declaration without tomorrow. Thirdly, I agree with Mr Wouter De Vriendt's remark. I think it is really very important that we know exactly and that we have the opportunity to choose the trained people. We have had very bad training experiences in the past. I remember in particular our military cooperation in the Congo. At the outset, we had not made any demands on the type of people, on the way these trainings were conducted. I believe that it is extremely important not to aggravate the divisions in Iraq, but rather that, through our presence, our training and our demands for trained personnel, we contribute to bringing together and ensuring that all components of Iraqi society can benefit from these trainings. Fourth point: these are new recruits. I don't know if they're people destined to go to the front. Is there not the danger of training people who are not ultimately and directly involved in the fighting? Are we certain that these trainings are indispensable and necessary in the course of operations today? These are young recruits, totally inexperienced people. Are we certain that these trainings have a direct effect on the course of operations? This also seems to me to be extremely important for the future. I have a question of clarification. I didn't get it right. You said, but perhaps it was a translation problem, that you were looking for a budget of 3 million euros for the formation of Iraqi air troops outside Iraqi territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u21	You mentioned the question of the possibility for the Pershmergas. I only replied that our possibilities are under consideration. Today I am not looking for money, there is no concrete project at this level. No questions have been asked about this. Within the coalition, we look at what can be done, and by whom. But there's no question. Today, we have answered the two questions that have been put to us in a positive way. The F-16s are here until the end of June. As for the trainers and instructors in Baghdad, they have been there for two weeks and will remain there for six months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u22	So, these three million euros would eventually be spent on...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u23	No, no. This amount represents the cost of instructors. It's part of the overall defence budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u24	Madam President, it is a little frustrating that the question has remained for over a month. I'm still trying, Minister, to ask my question. A few weeks ago, we read in the newspaper that you doubt that we will be able to meet our international commitments. My question is somewhat in line with the previous question, but it is much wider. How do you see our engagement in foreign missions evolve, specifically in the fight against ISIS? Of course there are the F-16s and meanwhile there are people for training and advice there. What will happen to the F-16 species currently placed in that region? Secondly, can you give me an overview of the missions that you would like to end when the budgetary situation obliges you to do so? Thirdly, additional missions are planned in your policy paper, including in Tunisia and Eastern Europe, in particular the deployment of 250 soldiers as ground representative assurance measure. Does this mean that our commitment to this mission will be reviewed in a very concrete way?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u25	Thank you, Mr Yüksel, for your question. I'm surprised you're surprised. I think you, like the other members of the committee, are aware of the precarious financial situation in which Defense is in. I also think it is important to read, read and take into account the context of what is written in an article. If I say that I have doubts as to whether we can fulfil all our commitments to NATO, I have said so in the context of our long-term budget. In response to your specific question, I can tell you that in the short term we have made a proposal on the operations in 2015. That proposal was adopted by the Council of Ministers. I have also proposed this proposal to Parliament and all the budgets have been provided for it. I see no reason why there should be deletions in that today. As the budget stands today, it will be implemented this year. My observation regarding the precarious budgetary situation of the defence sector is mainly about the long-term sustainability of the situation. You will not have noticed that this year's budget for operations is already significantly smaller than last year and that it will be difficult to maintain an acceptable level in the long term. Specifically, will we delete short-term missions? No.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u26	Minister, we all know, of course, that the situation is precarious. All my fellow Members here in committee have sufficient figures and information to conclude that the situation is not what it is and that our international commitments may be under pressure. However, we should not make a preliminaries now. My surprise has to do with that. This question dates back to the end of January and we are working on an exercise. It has been said that Parliament would be involved as much as possible. You have to explain what to do, that's your business. As a Parliament, we must do what we have to do. My surprise relates mainly to this. From your answer, however, I would point out that no changes should be expected for the ongoing missions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u27	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fernandez Fernandez 1890 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u28	Mr Van der Maelen's question lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u29	Madam President, Minister, I come back to the question of the acquisition of aircraft to replace the F-16s. This has already been the subject of lengthy debate in committee, particularly in February. I come back because we are still hungry about a number of commitments and opportunities for Parliament to monitor the preparatory phase. The Minister reiterated that no decision was taken, that no guidance was given to this market on the basis of the prior information requested from the various manufacturers. Nevertheless, there is some kind of opposition in principle for Parliament to first receive information available to the SPF National Defence, particularly as a result of the questionnaire sent to manufacturers. According to the Minister, these responses cannot be communicated to Parliament on the basis of a confidentiality clause that would have been provided for, which is in itself already questionable. Several parliamentarians from different political groups would like to see at least an agreed procedure between parliament and the government to follow up on this issue so that tomorrow it will not have the launch of a specification and a contract which would be subject only to the government's decision on the basis of the expert reports which it consults. If the government were to confirm its intention to replace the F-16s, this budgetary commitment would be considerable. Moreover, the only assessment of this budget commitment is also controversial, not only in terms of the cost of acquiring aircraft, but also in terms of maintenance, operation, maintenance and management costs. I therefore return with concern to this requirement of transparency. First, no one believes that the Defence budget is now in a position to meet the cost of acquiring these aircraft. For a single fiscal year, the Defence investment budget does not even cover the acquisition of an aircraft from any manufacturer. At one point, the government will have to say how it plans to finance the acquisition of F-16 replacement aircraft. On what budget forecast? And on what multi-year perspective of depreciation? I would like to know whether the government would accept – indeed, this is the subject of a resolution tabled by several groups on the initiative of our colleague Dirk Van der Maelen – that the Court of Auditors should be involved in all the preparatory stages of this market, if the intention to launch it was confirmed. Could the Court of Auditors therefore, given the government's willingness to preserve certain information, become the permanent intermediary, perhaps through the special committee on military procurement and investment, between the government and Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u30	Mr Minister, in addition to Mr Maingain's question, to which I join, since I have co-signed this resolution on the association of the Court of Auditors, I am asking you today about a very particular and very sensitive element, but fundamental in this tendering procedure, which will be launched if the government actually decides to renew its fleet of fighter aircraft. As we know, you started a pre-survey. You have sent it to a series of manufacturers that have been competing and that have sometimes been preparing for months or even years to respond to a possible call for tenders from the Belgian government to replace its fighter aircraft. There is an extremely important element in this future call for tenders. It is important to clarify this right now. We all know, even if you won't confirm it to me because you can't officially do it, that the current F-16s are equipped to transport the nuclear bombs based in Kleine-Brogel. These are bombs that must be dropped by plane. There are no launchers. We all know that their firing requires a secret code that only the American army holds. These firing codes are strictly confidential and absolutely not shared by the U.S. Army. Therefore, in the context of the renewal of these F-16s, rightly, in our capacity as parliamentarians, and the same applies to manufacturers, we have the right to know whether this equipment will be indispensable for future fighter aircraft. Should they carry these B61s? It is important that there is full clarity on this issue from the outset. If that were to be the case. If these aircraft were to have the same functions, the same nuclear missions as they are today, this call for tenders would make no sense, since it is known that for the future, US Defense will never share its firing codes and B61 bomb drop codes. It is therefore necessary to know from now on whether we have gone into a procedure of false appearance, to give the appearance that there is a call for competition but that in the end only the American manufacturers will be able to comply with the specifications issued by Belgium. To avoid wasting time, money and false hopes, can you clarify this issue? Yes or no, will these future aircraft, among others, have to comply with this element of the specifications?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u31	Mr President, Mr Maingain, in order to answer your questions, I would like to refer you to the report of the committee where the results on the replacement of the F-16s were presented in detail. I don't think I always have to answer the same questions! Mr Dallemagne, the functional specifications of fighter aircraft will depend on the level of ambition that will be decided in the strategic plan. Today, the question is what requirements will be set out in the strategic plan for fighter aircraft.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u32	Madam President, the minister is telling us clearly that he does not want to play transparency! I take note of that. I am simply saying that in other states, in other countries, be it in Canada, in the Netherlands, where the renewal of the fighter fleet has been asked, every time, Parliament has been given, in real time and not in delayed time in a part of the cache-cache with the government, essential information. That there is a procedure to ensure that certain aspects of the confidentiality of the preparatory acts for the launch of a market of this importance are dealt with, I can still understand, but that there is a total refusal to consider cooperation with Parliament on such a decisive choice is difficult to accept in a state governed by the rule of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u33	Mr. Minister of Defence, your answer is skilful but unsatisfactory, because I think it is a fundamental question. I must confess that I do not imagine that Belgian Defence is making such an important expenditure by preventing itself, in the future, from carrying out a mission which no one hopes will ever have to carry out, but which is now part of the agreements we have with an important ally who are the United States. In any case, if that were to be the case, those bombs would obviously no longer be of any interest. So of two things one: either these bombs must be activated, and therefore our aviation and our hunting will have to be able to carry out this mission; or, indeed, these planes will not have to do so, and then we will have to be able to dismantle them. It is therefore a question that must be asked from the outset, and it would perhaps be interesting to speed up this reflection which has been going on for years in Belgium on the interest and the opportunity to keep this nuclear arsenal. We know that this interest is now extremely low. In any case, in terms of deterrence, it is invalid; in terms of tactics, it is invalid; in political terms, there may still be some arguments supported by some. I really believe that if we want to have a call for tenders that is transparent and open to European aircraft, we must ask ourselves the fundamental question of dismantling this arsenal or, in any case, of the fact that it must no longer be on Belgian soil, otherwise this call for tenders would be biased from the outset.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u34	As chairman, I would like to point out that the market research on the replacement of the F-16 was discussed extensively in committee. I just had it looked up. You were neither present. I suggest that you also follow up the report on that discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u35	Madam President, I was here!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u36	Me too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u37	Mr Dallemagne, you were not present at that meeting. I just looked it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u38	The question is not here. My question has nothing to do with this debate. It's a matter of topicality. Madam President, this is the second time I have asked a question and this is the second time you have made a comment. I find this very unpleasant. It's not the habit of our commission. We have the freedom to ask the questions we want. This question is an important one and it was normal for me to ask it today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u39	Minister, recently you sat with your colleague Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert. You mentioned, of course, an enhanced cooperation between Belgium and the Netherlands. Last week, you and your colleague also signed an agreement on the exact content of this cooperation. The agreement follows the principle of pooling and sharing. I am pleased that progress has been made in this area. The principle of pooling and sharing was used by your predecessor and was now put into a concrete chord. We welcome the initiative all the more, given the budgetary context. Collaboration with the Netherlands can generate significant efficiency gains in terms of finance, experience and knowledge sharing. We know that there is already a lot of cooperation between the Belgian Navy and the Dutch Navy. There is now far-reaching cooperation for airspace as well. Minister, exactly what forms of cooperation were discussed with your colleague? What matters were cited by you as added value in order to reach an agreement? There are also joint purchases of material. That's new and quite unique. What kind of purchases would this be about? Were the possibilities for joint maintenance and updates of the jointly purchased material also discussed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u40	Madam President, I was present at the time of the call for tenders for the F-16s and this does not detract from the relevance of the resolution co-signed by the opposition to the preliminary questioning of the Court of Auditors. Minister, the Belgian and Dutch governments have signed an agreement providing for the introduction by mid-2017 of a joint surveillance of the airspace of the two countries and Luxembourg by their respective fighter aircraft. The idea is to carry out jointly and alternately the air police mission over Benelux territory, in particular for the tasks of warning take-off and, above all, the procedure for identifying a suspicious aircraft (Renegade). Minister, what is the legal framework for this treaty? Will it have to be ratified by our assembly? What are the political, legal and technical consequences? How will Belgian sovereignty be exercised within this framework? Under such a treaty, who has the final and legal responsibility to shoot down a hostile military aircraft or hijacked airliner? I recall that there was a precedent with French people who had escorted a plane over Switzerland. In case of a major incident, all this is not very clear. Has this been provided for in the cooperation agreement? Are there already coordinated procedures at Belux, Benelux, European or Alliance level? What are the procedures to be followed? Who is responsible for damage? Is there any more comprehensive reflection with our other neighbouring countries? Finally, from a technical point of view and from a military point of view, such an agreement implies the perfect cooperation of our hunts. How, in this context, can we ensure the compatibility of these hunts? What could be the consequences in terms of military purchases (e.g. potential replacement of F-16s), maintenance and maintenance, and training of our pilots?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u41	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Top's 2721 expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u42	Madam President, Minister, my question is with that of my colleague. On 4 March, you went to The Hague with the government and entered into a series of agreements. As far as you are concerned, you have signed the Treaty on common surveillance in turn over our two countries. This treaty is aimed in particular at accompanying civilian aircraft which do not comply with their flight plan. In this context, Belgian aircraft are required to monitor the airspace of the Netherlands and vice versa. While I welcome this enhanced cooperation and the pooling of resources, I wonder about some of the points that relate to this cooperation. Could you clarify to me the rules of engagement and the line of command that will apply in practice to this cooperation? For example, in the case of an intervention by a Belgian aircraft in the Netherlands, which takes command of operations and gives orders? Does the Belgian pilot follow a Dutch command line directly or does he pass through his own hierarchy? In an extreme case where a potentially extremely threatening airliner should be shot down in Benelux airspace but outside Belgian airspace, who decides? How does information flow in an emergency between the pilot, the military hierarchy and the political decision-makers of the two countries concerned? Moreover, on a completely different level, this enhanced cooperation with our Dutch neighbours, who have already chosen the F-35 as their future fighter aircraft, is not likely to bind our hands in favour of this aircraft for the replacement of our F-16s? Under the pretext of ensuring maximum interoperability within the framework of this common surveillance of our airspace, is there not a risk that at some point we will be told that "finally, in order to simplify things, it would be better to have the same planes"? We may then say: "It will be easier to carry out these missions at the same time, so that our pilots can have the same types of training, so that we can eventually pool the spare parts." Do we not put a finger in a gear that we would not have decided on before in a totally autonomous way?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u43	Colleagues, during the introductory visit with the Dutch Minister for Defence, Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert, the importance of consolidating the ongoing projects was stressed by the two ministers. In addition, our new strategic plan and the new Dutch Code were considered to be of great importance for further cooperation. Quoted projects were the far-reaching BeNeSam of the two Navys, the integrated Benelux Arms Control Agency in operation in Peutie, the cooperation on airspace monitoring, the existing cooperation in the logistics domain, together with the cooperation of our Navys also the joint acquisition and management of spare parts of the Navy version of the NH-90, the joint paratrooper training in the paratrooper training centre in Schaffen, the study of the cooperation of ground fire support together with Germany, and the establishment and training of a Benelux EU Battle Group planned for 2018. The agreement signed on 4 March is a treaty between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and concerns cooperation in terms of airspace security in the event of threats by civil aircraft. This text will be subject to the consent of Parliament and set in the form of a law – as we usually do. The ratification of the treaty will then be carried out by the executive branch. In the context of the fight against terrorism, following the attacks of 11 September 2001, and in accordance with NATO guidelines, the concept of renegade was developed by the Defence Staff to describe the actions to be taken in Belgium to prevent the use of a civilian aircraft as a terrorist weapon. This concept was approved on May 18, 2014 by my predecessor. Under NATO agreements, the use of NATO's integrated air defence system is permitted only for military aircraft. This is a difference between the two devices. Against a civilian air threat, the concept of renegade provides that the use of force will be the responsibility of the national government authority, known as the NGA – National Governmental Authority. In Belgium, I am the one who bears this responsibility. Specific technical agreements common to the signatories to the Convention will ensure the computability and harmonisation of the procedures to be followed. The Convention is necessary to establish the relevant legal framework and to respect the sovereignty of the States concerned. In this context, a treaty with France has already been signed in the past and a new treaty with Germany will soon be signed. The Benelux Treaty strengthens cooperation between our three countries, Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg. Under the Benelux Treaty, the decision to use force in the event of a threat by civil aircraft shall be taken by the competent national authority of the State above which the incident takes place. It's clear, in Belgium, it's me. I am in Belgium, in consultation with the Minister for the Interior and the Prime Minister. In the Netherlands, that is the Minister of Security and Justice. The settlement of any damage shall be carried out in accordance with the Convention between the States Parties to the NATO Treaty on the Status of Their Forces and with applicable international and national law in this case. Joint surveillance of the airspace of the three countries has no consequences in terms of military procurement, maintenance, maintenance or training of our pilots. Belgium and the Netherlands will be responsible for the monitoring. Joint monitoring can be carried out even if countries do not have a common platform. The realisation of scale effects, production, maintenance, logistical support, etc. will continue to be possible with these countries using the configuration that Belgium will ultimately choose for. I would ask you to make it very clear that I have said that scale effects will be possible with those countries that will have the same aircraft as we do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your reply on the possible forms of cooperation. The procedures are clear, harmonisation is still under way. I have an additional question that I forgot a moment ago. This cooperation may, of course, take account of the long-term strategic planning, or is it entirely separate from that? Of course, we also need to look at the efficiency gains, but we will probably get information on this when the time comes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u45	Minister, I am very pleased to have received confirmation that a cooperation agreement does not involve cooperation on military procurement. This reassures me of what your colleague De Crem said, which we will have the opportunity to talk about in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u46	Minister, thank you for this information. I understand that you will make the decision with the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior for Belgian airspace. That seems legitimate to me. For the Netherlands, it will be the Minister of Security and the Minister of Justice. I'm a little less reassured than my PS colleague because you say two different things.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u47	I'm a fake naïve.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u48	You say it's not necessary to have the same platforms, but if we have the same platforms, you say there will be scale effects.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u49	Mr Yüksel, to what extent does this correspond or not to the strategic plan? It is clear that we are in a number of international contexts and that we must let them continue. I don't need to write a plan to know that we can take steps forward there. As such, it is stated in the coalition agreement and in my policy paper for the coming years. You may regard that as a preliminaries, but I do not see it as such. I think it's just a natural evolution of things. Mr Dallemagne, what I said was that as far as hunting planes are concerned, we will be looking for scale effects, but we will find them with countries with the same system as we do. This means that if our choice is different, we can look for scale effects with other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u50	For example with France and the Rafale?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u51	For example.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u52	It's important, because in reality, there are three types of aircraft, if I understood correctly. The Dutch have the F-35.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u53	There's five of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u54	But among the neighbours with whom we have cooperation, there are the Rafale, the Eurofighter and the F-35.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u55	There is also the Saab, Mr Dallemagne, in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u56	But a little further.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u57	I don't want to get into this discussion. What I'm saying is that it's obvious that we'll be looking for scale effects, no matter what plane we choose. That's what I said. I have confirmed that in terms of cooperation in the protection of our airspace, it is clear that now or in the future we will have two had a week on two 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Now it's permanent. Any platform will allow us to alternate every other week. It's already a profit. I can feel that every other week costs less than every week.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u58	I'm glad. Again, I think we're going in the right direction. I think that, since we have cooperation with France, Germany and Luxembourg, it would be interesting in the future to have a five-way discussion on airspace monitoring. It would be an exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u59	That's what I mean. Regardless of the type of aircraft chosen, scale effects with other countries are possible, as is already the case with F-16s (continuation, midlife update, etc.).). This can be done with any country that shares our ideas.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u60	I would just like to take a step further, Minister. I think the trend is good. There are major budgetary difficulties. We are faced with renewals of sometimes heavy equipment. In addition, greater cooperation efforts are taking place. For my part, I call for these air cooperation efforts to be examined, if possible, at five, and for this opportunity to be used to address the related air equipment issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u61	Madam Chair, Minister, I am a very constructive person. I am a fan of the Arlequin collection; I want an ideal world where the government loves each other. I will not hide from you that the perpetual ruptures between the CD&V and the N-VA are a great concern to me. It is with a certain astonishment that I was able to read the statements of the Secretary of State at the Diplomatic Days, in favour of an acceleration of the F-16 replacement programme. A matter that does not fall within its current competence and which, in your view, is, in particular, at the stage of reflection at the governmental but also at the parliamentary level. Mr. De Crem, however, took the opportunity to repeat his clear personal preference for the American F-35. "The purchase of such a nuclear-capable aircraft will allow Belgium to remain a reliable small partner in NATO and the European Union," he said to the heads of Belgian diplomatic posts. He also reiterated that about 40 devices would be needed and that it would be preferable for the government to hasten the process. You'll probably enjoy it, minister. This particularly shocked several participants from the diplomatic posts. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. How do you position yourself against the statements of the Secretary of State? Are these statements, in your opinion, likely to cast doubt on the survey he had launched for the possible replacement of the F-16s? In view of his current powers, would the Secretary of State have any other information on this matter than you or Parliament? Is its intention to "happen" the debate followed by the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u62	Mr Pirlot, the statements made by Mr Pieter De Crem, Secretary of State for Foreign Trade, regarding the replacement of the F-16s he made in the context of his speech on Diplomatic Days on 2 February 2015, are, in my view, a personal title and in no way an expression of the government's position. You may also address the question to my colleague Pieter De Crem. The file on the replacement of the F-16 is still in the preparatory phase, as you know, and will be carried out by me in accordance with the agreements in the government agreement in all possible transparency and in compliance with the rules in force. I would also like to point out that a strategic plan will have to be drawn up earlier and that a level of ambition will be defined there. This level of ambition will be crucial for the start of the purchase process for the aircraft that will replace the F-16. So to date, I have no preference for any kind of successor. However, if my colleague has, in his budgets, the necessary budget to buy any plane, he is free to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u63	Minister, thank you. Madam President, as I said at the beginning of the speech, I am very constructive. I propose that you bring together a majority speaking group of Members with Mr. From Crem. It's very fashionable in psychology. We're all in circles. Sitting on chairs, we talk about our childhood injuries, etc. I'm sure after this therapy, Mr. De Crem will be able to overcome his frustration that he no longer deals with defence and will then be able to devote himself to the management of this gigantic department of foreign trade. If this therapy fails, then it will have to be obvious. I come from a small rural area, often caricatured by shows like L'Amour is in the meadow. A saying from home simply says, "You can't ask a sparrow to have the intelligence of an eagle."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u64	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Top's 1952 has been postponed. Questions Nos 1957 and 2069 by Mr Top and Mr Flahaux may be postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u65	Madam President, Minister, following the monstrous execution of the Jordanian pilot who had fallen into Daesh's hands, and once he had passed the emolument that had aroused this act, we must consider the rescue device that is in place. According to the New York Times, as a result of the crash in the Raca region, the Arab Emirates and Morocco had decided to interrupt their overflights of Iraq and Syria, given the excessive distance of the intervention and rescue forces. Indeed, the search and rescue aircraft are officially based in Kuwait, while the fighting is mainly taking place in northern Iraq, resulting in a long displacement to implement any rescues. According to this daily newspaper, the United States intended to reposition its teams in Erbil, northern Iraq, in order to allow a faster response to rescue coalition pilots. Since the introduction of this question, a number of things have happened. The Emirates, which was in dispute with Washington on their arrangements for the rescue of the pilots serving in the coalition, resumed their raids in February. Minister, if, according to General Frederik Vansina, the conclusions of the risk analysis would not have changed for our pilots, did the removal and execution of the Jordanian pilot inform the rescue device differently? What measures are being taken to help our pilots in the event of a crash? Do you have any new information to share with us about this? Moreover, since the Jordanian army intensified its strikes on Daesh in the first half of February, the terrorists have published an Internet video in which they broadcast pictures of Jordanian pilots, threatening them with reprisals. I therefore wonder whether a similar risk could affect our troops present on the spot. If so, are measures taken to protect our men and their families?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u66	Mrs Wilmès, please excuse me, but my preparation covered the three questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u67	It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u68	Defence is not aware of the exact content of the concerns expressed by the United Arab Emirates. The personnel recovery aspect, in this case the search, recovery and rescue of personnel, is considered as a priority task within the multinational coalition. In addition, the knowledge and skills in this field are of a high level. They build on recent experiences in Libya and Afghanistan, among others. Defence has therefore adapted from the start of operations over Iraq to the applicable personnel recovery procedures. Personnel recovery is a responsibility that is coordinated with all available resources within the multinational coalition, tous ensemble. Given the specificity of the assignment, within the multinational coalition only the United States have the vector that allows to rescue a pilot from an enemy environment. However, all members of the coalition may, with their specific means of air, provide support during the performance of that mission. Response times are constantly analysed and evolving in a favourable direction, but are influenced by the ground security situation. If necessary, personal recovery resources can be moved to a forward base to further reduce response times. During their training as a F-16 pilot, the Belgian F-16 pilots undergo a thorough training and have state-of-the-art equipment for the execution of their assignment. Refreshing their knowledge and skills in the field of personal recovery is provided periodically, and in any case for participation in an operation. Following the dramatic death of the Tunisian pilot, no additional measures have been taken for our F-16 pilots, as has already been reported in the media. That does not, of course, prevent such an incident from affecting our pilots. The close connection between the F-16 pilots allows them to ventilate their possible mental concerns through communication. If this is not enough, a network of military psychologists can be called upon to deal with the problems further. So far, none of the F-16 pilots who have been deployed have had to avail themselves of this psychological assistance. The information on the shelling of the Dutch F-16 was shared with all coalition partners immediately after the incident, in order to implement any additional precautions. The Belgian F-16 procedures and tactics were found to be safe enough, so an adjustment was not required. Our Belgian F-16 people have not yet suffered any damage during the execution of their shipments over Iraq. Finally, in order to protect Belgian personnel participating in Operations Desert Falcon missions, Defence is imposing strict measures to maintain the anonymity of deployed military personnel. Thus, no face can be photographed or filmed. The names of the military cannot be communicated. No interview of pilots can be made. Only the detachment commander is authorized to communicate with the press, etc. In addition, staff are made aware of the danger of communication on social networks before, during and after the mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u69	Minister, thank you for these answers. You have told us about all the various measures taken upstream to ensure the safety of our pilots and, consequently, their families. It was important to emphasize that preserving their safety and that of their loved ones was one of our priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u70	Madam President, Minister, I shall ask you in two stages: firstly, the assessment of the Hélios programme and, secondly, its future. Thanks to enhanced cooperation in the military and intelligence fields, Belgium currently has a state-of-the-art satellite capability for observation and reconnaissance. Indeed, while the Helios 1A and 1B satellites, launched in 1995 and 1999, and 2A and 2B, launched in 2004 and 2009, are of French design and are ultimately under the control of the French Directorate of Military Intelligence, there are six users: France, Germany, Belgium, Italy, Spain and Greece. The Helios 2 programme is thus 90% financed by France, with a minority stake in Belgium and Spain, joined by Greece and Italy. In addition, recognition capacity exchange agreements between Hélios and its German and Italian equivalents were also signed in 2005-2006. On this basis, the use of the Hélios satellites is shared between each of the participating countries which regularly submit to the French control centre a list of the places they wish to observe and photograph. This system of European mutualisation is obviously very positive in this strategic area for all partners and for Belgium in particular. However, I would like a little more details on the characteristics of Belgian participation in this programme. How much is our cumulative financial contribution to the Hélios program since its inception? How much does it account for our annual budgets? In the end, what is the Belgian share in Helios at the financial level, but also in terms of technological and industrial implications and spin-offs? Above all, what is our right of use in proportion to the whole? At what rate can we make specific requests for comments? What did we observe, and for what reason? What assessment do you make of the added value of this information for Belgium and the cost-benefit ratio for our country? Who were the main recipients: the SGRS, the Sûreté de l'Etat, the Défense or other bodies and bodies? The question then arises of the future of this cooperation and, more specifically, of Belgian participation in the future successor of Helios, which will soon come to an end of life. A first attempt to prepare a resolutely European replacement, called MUSIS, which would have brought together the same participating countries from the outset, in association with the European Defence Agency, finally fell into the water in 2010. Nevertheless, MUSIS continued to exist, but this time as a joint co-financing structure of the French successor to Hélios, under the name CSO. There should again be a sharing between European contributing countries on the basis of an essentially French programme. It should also be composed of two satellites. The first launch would be scheduled for 2017. Minister, do you confirm this setup, this device, this timing? In what form is Belgium present in this MUSIS-CSO structure? How much? According to what right of use? For what type of program? If this is not the case, are there any difficulties in setting up this mechanism? More generally, what do you expect in the future with regard to European satellite cooperation and Belgium's financial contribution so that we can benefit from such services? Indeed, it seems to me extremely important to be able to contribute to this type of satellite device.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u71	Madam President, dear colleague, Belgium committed itself to the Helios 2 programme in 2001. This commitment represented an investment of EUR 74 million and an annual operating budget of between EUR 3 and 5 million, starting with the launch of the programme for Belgium in 2004. The cumulative financial aspect, without taking into account the initial investment, currently represents just under EUR 40 million for the operation of the Belgian CSO station, i.e. the Belgian Main Helios Centre (CPHB), and the share of the common cost of the programme. These costs are shared among partners based on their initial contribution. For Belgium, this participation amounts to 2.5%. The programme still has technological spin-offs from Belgian companies subcontracted by the manufacturer of the Airbus Defense and Space system. It is Spacebel and Cegelec who have a daily responsibility within CPHB to maintain the operationality of the system at more than 99%. The right of use of the system is linked to the partner's contribution, i.e. for Belgium 2.5% of the possibilities of shooting by satellite. In this context, Belgium can therefore set its programming and acquisition priorities according to its operational needs in coordination with the other partners in the programme, in proportion to their contribution. Our priorities for acquisitions stem mainly from the needs formulated, on the one hand, by the services of the SGRS and, on the other hand, by other departments or departments such as the Defence Operational Centre, the State Security and the FPS Foreign Affairs. The system is implemented by CPHB, which is under the responsibility of the General Intelligence and Security Service. Helios 2 thus enables Defence to create georeferenced products of different types, whether classified or not, of high added value, in order to answer both ad hoc questions and the ongoing monitoring of areas of interest. Compared with purely commercial acquisitions, it should be noted that the cost/benefit ratio is particularly positive. Indeed, for the same level of ambition in number of images, a contract with a commercial supplier could be up to four times more expensive. In addition to the financial argument, this government programme also provides Belgium with very good responsiveness, control over the confidentiality and integrity of the image and a high degree of autonomy thanks, among other things, to access to the system's programming. The end of Helios 2's life depends on the technical state of the satellites and the willingness of the partners to continue investing in the programme, given the national needs of each partner. Therefore, it is not illusory to estimate today that the programme will be able to last until 2019 or 2020. In addition, in view of the change in the objectives of the MUSIS programme under the aegis of the European Defence Agency, the French national programme Component spatial optics (CSO), which can be regarded as the successor of the Hélios 2 programme, is being followed up by some interested partners bilaterally with France. Since 2012, the Federal Science Policy Programming SPF (BELSPO) has invested €50 million in the CSO project. Since 2012, Belgium has sent requests to France to obtain a concrete offer for Belgium's participation in the CSO programme with an operational return equivalent to that of the Hélios 2 programme. I can confirm that I rested the question with my counterpart at our meeting in Germany a week ago. France has informed us that it is making every effort to respond to us in detail in a short time. To date, however, no concrete or partial response has been received. It should be noted that the complexity of political, operational, commercial and technical issues in France has somewhat delayed the possibility of responding quickly to Belgium. As long as the Defence Staff is not in possession of the French offer, it is impossible for us to make a final decision on our participation in the CSO program. In any case, in the context of cooperation in the field of Earth observation with satellite means, Belgium's ambition is dependent on the financial feasibility of integrating an observation programme into defence investments. As these are long-term commitments, various elements (financial, economic, security and military) must be taken into account during these assessments. These investments will continue to benefit from this type of information. In short, we are waiting for their offer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u72	Minister, I appreciated the details of your answer. Nevertheless, you wait for their offer to position yourself. I believe that a principled position should be adopted from the outset. You have demonstrated the importance and usefulness of this program. The annual cost is ultimately reasonable in relation to the profits earned. Indeed, if we had to turn to the private sector for the same type of information and probably of lower quality, it would have cost us four times as much. This is a budget that you place between 3 and 5 million euros per year. Perhaps it would be interesting to confirm, now, the interest you have in keeping this contribution for such a program. Otherwise, it would be harmful for Belgium and our intelligence services. We have recently heard from the SGRS, which in fact referred to its concerns in Parliament with respect to the continuation of this program. His questions were clear in this regard. Therefore, it is important to get a quick response. I remain attentive and would indeed like to receive a reply from France. It is a pity that today, France, which seeks to position itself on other types of military markets, does not seek to respond more quickly to this issue. Overall, we all need to make an effort, within Europe, to build these defence elements and devices together. But it would be interesting for Belgium to adopt a principled position on this issue in order to be able to contribute to the future development of a satellite network, because it also has consequences for our own industries and research centres. That is why BELSPO is involved in this matter. I am counting on you to adopt this principled position pending France's response.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u73	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vandenput (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. 2278 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u74	Madam President, I would like to make a comment on the report. I appreciate those Members who have a question postponed, but I do not like to hear them say that they have to wait a long time before they receive an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u75	You're right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u76	Madam President, Minister, on 6 February 2015, NATO Secretary of State met. The Readiness Action Plan was strengthened and the scale and specifications of a very high quality force or the spearhead force were determined. That decision should strengthen the NATO borders in the south and east of Europe. In addition, the relationship between NATO and Georgia was discussed, with a reference to strengthening cooperation between the organisation and Georgia, including the launch of a joint training and evaluation centre. Georgia's accession to NATO was also underlined once again. This is, of course, an important signal from NATO towards Russia. Russia has always made a distinction between NATO Member States and OSCE Member States, where countries belonging to the OSCE but not to NATO are still susceptible to their control or interference, if I may use that word for that. Mr Minister, can you explain the decisions that have been taken? Is there an additional effort required from Belgium, alongside the F-16s and the troops that sent our country to Poland? What views did you defend at that meeting on the Readiness Action Plan and the spearhead force? For our group, it remains important that NATO membership be assessed on its merits and that it be used effectively. I have three sub-questions on that. Can you give an update on Georgia's candidacy for NATO? In your opinion, is this an added value or not? What is your position on the matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u77	Madam President, Mr Yüksel, at the NATO meeting at the level of Defence Ministers on 5 February 2015, it was decided to strengthen the NATO Respondence Force with a very high-quality joint task force and also to establish multinational command and control elements in the Baltic States, Poland, Romania and Bulgaria. This NATO initiative is part of a package of measures, namely the Readiness Action Plan adopted at the Wales Summit, and is purely defensive, proportionate and in line with existing international agreements. As a solidarity NATO Member State, Belgian defence will participate in both the very high quality joint task force and the multinational command and control elements. Both implementations benefit the 28 Member States and are implemented by the 28 Member States. These multinational command and control elements will be half-managed by the military of the host country concerned and half by multinational personnel on a rotating basis. The command and control elements will assist the coordination of multinational exercises, the planning of collective defence and the preparation of rapid deployment of troops to the region, if necessary. These decisions were taken by consensus and all 28 NATO Member States will participate in the Readiness Action Plan according to the usual distribution key and on the basis of fair burden-sharing, including Belgium. The modalities for the implementation of these additional efforts are currently being examined within the Defence Staff. There are certainly costs involved, but we are going to try to resolve this internally. At this NATO meeting, I defended the following positions. Firstly, the alliance's security is indivisible and the alliance must be ready to address all threats, both from the east and from the south. Depending on the speaker, it was noted that there was a greater interest in the East or in the South. The more people come to us, the more people look to the south. The more one moves to the east, the more one looks to the east. NATO must ensure that the Host Nation Support is harmonised within the six eastern Member States. This is a matter of Burden Sharing and such. Belgium is in favour of involving partner countries in the Readiness Action Plan. In other words, cooperation is the key word. Finally, Belgium supports the strengthening of the German, Polish and Danish contributions to NATO structure, in particular the multinational army headquarters in Poland. As regards Georgia, this NATO meeting discussed the state of implementation of the Substantial NATO-Georgia Package on Defence Capacity Building. This package was adopted at the Wales Summit and means that NATO offers concrete support, advice and assistance to Georgia with the presence of advisors from the NATO Member States, including now also from Belgium. Like the Readiness Action Plan, this NATO initiative is 28 for 28. The aim of the package is to assist Georgia in achieving its national defence objectives. A possible accession of Georgia to NATO falls outside the competence of the Defence Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u78	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased that we, too, are taking on board our commitments in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u79	Minister, the coalition agreement announced a strategic plan that will reflect the long-term vision of defence. Due to the heavy savings within Defence, this plan will of course become crucial because it will develop the future path of our Belgian army. The coalition agreement also indicates that the plan must be drawn up six months after the beginning of the legislature. In the meantime, we all know that the plan will be postponed. I won't say things that have become obsolete in the meantime. The strategic plan for defence must, of course, also be accompanied by accurate budgetary control. This is also important for the defence staff, who would like to be clear as soon as possible about the future implementation of the defence mandates. Everything is being postponed now, but what precise timing do you put first? What are the reasons? You indicated that you would present the broad lines to the Council of Ministers at Easter. How far will you go in drawing up the lines? Will it be clear, for example, what and how the missions will continue? Will these broad lines already be sufficient to produce and implement budget control as accurately as possible? The 2015 policy paper also states: "As far as the large investment programme is concerned, the strategic vision to be presented will be based on a ten-year military programme law. Does the postponement of the strategic plan also mean a postponement of the military programme law? When do you plan to submit the programme law to Parliament and the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u80	I answered the same question by Mr Tim Vandenput in plenary on 12 February. I explained the situation at the time. The coalition agreement asks the Minister of Defence to present a strategic vision for Defence within six months. I'll do the same. There will be a strategic vision for Defense within six months. I think I have said this on several occasions. So there is no question of postponing anything. It is a question of transforming a vision into a time table with strategic planning which is then translated into concrete actions and implementation. If the media means that everything has been postponed until the autumn, and if you want to believe that, Mr Yüksel, then so be it, but this is not the case. I come, as agreed in the government agreement, with a strategic vision within six months of the government's accession. I opt for this step-by-step approach, a great strategic plan, and then implementation to develop a Belgian Defence worthy of this name. I will therefore ask for an agreement by the government around Easter, which is six months after its entry into office, to continue in a certain direction with Defence. The note I will then submit will indeed contain elements relating to our ambition, coupled with the necessary capacities and budgets. That vision can then become a complete plan at different stages. If you are asking me today when I will come up with this military programme law, we will have to see it. There's no timing on that. I think it is important that we first know what we are going to do, in which we want to invest, make a good estimate of it and find a good way of putting it into a law that will provide security and stability for the defence of the future. Stability which has been sought for some time and which will be guaranteed by this military programme law. The timing: this legislature and on time to make the necessary orders.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u81	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. A lot of things have already been known through the media. There's not much you can do about that either. However, it is correct that you are now saying that a vision will be developed by Easter and that we will then have a plan that will be implemented. There is indeed no timing for the programme law. It would be logical if it were to be in line with that vision as soon as possible. It is difficult to say that we are going to wait until the end of the legislature for a programme law to come out. This will include important investments that will also be necessary to effectively implement that long-term strategic vision and to give Defence personnel a better future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u82	Madam President, Minister, at the time when the government announced measures against terrorism, just after the attacks in Paris and the actions in Verviers and Brussels, I raised a question about Salafism. You know that a joint Committee on Justice, Defence and Internal Relations was organised at the time and my question was, as it were, snowed under; at least it was not addressed. Meanwhile, we know through the media that there is a group of Salafists active in the Defense Department. We also know that these extremists cannot simply be dismissed. During the previous period of government, it was examined what steps could be taken, but it was already established that there was no legal basis. In the meantime, Defence has already indicated that the military intelligence service ADIV is obviously keeping a close eye on these people. Our neighbours France and the Netherlands also have the same problems. Mr Minister, can you indicate how many military personnel currently active in the defence sector are likely to have been radicalised? Can you tell me how many ex-military jihadists have become and gone to fight abroad? Is there any information on that? What measures can be taken with regard to radicalizing military forces in the Defense Department? Not all radicalised militaries show this in their behavior in the workplace. In other words, does the Defense have a preventive policy to detect and, of course, neutralize radicalised military forces? If so, in what way? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u83	Madam President, Minister, the Minister of the Interior participated in the international summit against terrorism chaired by Barack Obama. Following this summit, your colleague announced his willingness to create a database that optimizes the transmission of information about Belgian jihadists, particularly to the police authorities. This database would be managed by the OCAM. Today, the State Security and the SGRS obtain from their own sources information about the Belgian jihadists. In the event of a judicial investigation, police and judicial investigators may then obtain such data. The aim of the Minister of the Interior is therefore to make this sharing of information more automatic at the local level and to break down the rivalries between the Sûreté and the SGRS under your control. However, this project raises many questions since, by definition, the information transmitted to the State Security or to the Directorate of Military Intelligence by third-party services is not intended to be transmitted to services other than the specific recipient. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. As it stands, what is the role of the SGRS in collecting and transmitting information on radicalism and Belgian jihadists? What assessment do you make of the exchange of information that exists today between the SGRS and civilian intelligence, police and judicial services? Have you ever had an exchange with your colleague from the interior on his project for a more dynamic database? Were you involved? What do you think of the proposed model? How will the SGRS be required to fit into such a device? Does this dynamic transmission of information not involve the risk to the SGRS of breaking trust with foreign secret services providing the information? What safeguards should be put in place at the SMS level in the transmission of this data? How can the SGRS objectively determine the information that can be transmitted and the persons to be reported? How to manage access to such data when the purposes of the services concerned are multiple? Finally, how can we ensure the establishment of such a new database, when we know that the resources allocated by the government to intelligence services are already insufficient to carry out their current missions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u84	Madam President, Minister, Belgium has learned with horror that Lotfi Aoumeur, the terrorist who threatened to attack the car bomb and to kill Belgian and French citizens, had spent two years in the Belgian armed forces between 2010 and 2012. If my information is correct, he was a Navy paramedic. But he was not just an ambulance, since he learned how to handle weapons and some combat techniques. According to his former comrades, he would have learned a whole series of techniques that today are extremely dangerous for our citizens threatened by this person our army has formed. This is again and again the question of the jihadists in the army. You know that I spoke on this subject during the previous Parliament and also during this Parliament. On my initiative, there was an amendment to the military recruitment law which allows systematic screening in this area before recruitment. That was not the case before. I would like to take stock with you of this issue of jihadists in the army. At one point, there were about ten people. Are there still potentially threatening, dangerous people in the army? We talked about this in a previous committee and you already told me that the law did not allow you to act in this area. Isn't it time to have a legislative initiative? This seems particularly dangerous, shocking to me. I see in the daily Le Monde that the French are also extremely shocked to learn this information. Is it not time for Belgium finally to have the legal means to remove dangerous people? Did Defence, the SSRS, have knowledge of the dangerousness of this individual at the time he was there? Beyond the follow-up of these people, what initiatives, if any, are being taken to ensure that these people are excluded, that they do not constitute an extremely serious danger? We can imagine that these people who threaten Belgium may not go to Syria in the future to do so, but could immediately turn against Belgian citizens, in Belgium, after a passage in the army, since we also know that there are people who could be dangerous there. Isn't it time to take an effective initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u85	Mr President, before I answer the questions, I would like to mention that it is essential to distinguish between jihadist and Salafist. One's not the other. There is no question of a jihadist in the Defence. The General Intelligence and Security Service, the SGRS, currently plays an important role in the collection of information on radicalisation and Belgian jihadists. Moreover, it is the only Belgian intelligence service which also has the task of monitoring the situation abroad. The exchange of information between the SGRS, the OCAM, the Sûreté de l'Etat, the judicial authorities and the police services takes place within the legal framework and to the satisfaction of the various partners. It is clear that it is the responsibility of the SGRS to ask the foreign partner services to what extent they can make their information available to other Belgian services. The storage, management, access and use of this information must be in accordance with current Belgian privacy legislation and the Classification Act. The mutual need for information is addressed through frequent formal and informal contacts with Belgian partners. As far as a more dynamic database project is concerned, there has not yet been any consultation with my colleague from the Interior. At present, the General Intelligence and Security Service, ADIV or SCRS, has no evidence that any military has been radicalised in such a way that its conduct would no longer be in conformity with the values of Defence or would jeopardise its orders. But know that in case of need, Defence has all disciplinary measures and statutory measures, up to and including dismissal. This is an important step, which must be taken. Two former soldiers are currently present in Syria. One has already left DOD in 2008, after two years of service, and was already known for his relations with radical circles. The second, recently published in the press, had already been dismissed after a long absence before the crisis broke out in Syria. During his brief visit to Defense, he showed no sign of radicalism. In the meantime, a former soldier returned wounded. His behaviour soon after taking up his duties attracted the attention of the ADIV. He was fired for desertion before leaving for Syria. So he was outside the DOD before he left. Finally, a reservist died in the battle in Syria. Since his radical behavior soon became known to our services, he was no longer summoned. He left the army in 2010. Since 1 January 2013, all military candidates have been subject to a screening of military history, both in terms of crime and extremism. The SRMS uses a variety of research methods legally provided for in the Act to monitor military personnel. The SRMS combines various elements that may constitute an indication of radicalization in order to detect members who require further monitoring. It should be recalled that these investigations are dependent on and exculpatory. Appropriate military authorities receive regular awareness briefings from the SGRS.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u86	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. The figures show that it is a small problem. However, I believe that we must continue to respond adequately to this. Steps have been taken since 2013. As far as the legal framework for intervention is concerned, you have made it clear in your reply. There must be certain behaviours, because if people have extremist ideas, they have no proof of that. We must make sure that people with different insights and evil intentions do not use our defence apparatus for their ideas, insights and evil intentions. You have spoken about disciplinary sanctions and statutory penalties, which are possible today for certain conduct. I believe that we must look for a framework in which people who have extremist ideas can be excluded from the army. That's not obvious. You have given four examples, which are of great concern to us, and there will probably still be examples. I would also like to share that concern here. We must continue to look for a legal framework to ban people with certain ties and extremist ideas from the army.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u87	Minister, thank you for your answer. I would like to return for a moment to the creation of this dynamic database. I am the mayor of a small town in the province of Luxembourg. In this commune of 5,300 inhabitants, about 10 people are monitored for a problem of temptation to radicalize. Others with the same suspicions stayed there but left her. In my view, an association of local authorities, who are often best placed to gather information about certain citizens, would be desirable in order to avoid some flogging sometimes occurring in the context of information sharing. I therefore stress the need to make progress in this area. We would all gain in terms of security.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u88	Minister, four people are involved: a reservist, a deserter and two former soldiers who left on the battlefield. That number is higher than I thought. Still, one of these people was injured and another was killed in combat. Moreover, at least one of these individuals was known for its affinity and proximity to radical environments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u89	The Reservist.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u90	This is an element that, in my view, clearly allows for the removal of a person from the army. Indeed, having close ties or contacts with radical circles does not seem to me to be in line with the values conveyed by the army. We need to be clear about this. Your predecessor had made it very clear – that's what bothers me somewhat – that a whole series of people did not have their place in the army and that he was going to make sure that they were left out. Three years later, we are told that nothing can be done because we must demonstrate that behaviour is not adequate. It is known, however, that sometimes the transition to action is very difficult to anticipate. I therefore call for caution. We train people in weapons handling, in warfare techniques. They are given a series of information. If necessary, they are provided with military information. It is, in my view, very worrying that Belgium has been able to train these people and that the Belgian Defence and Taxpayer have allowed their training. I therefore invite you to review this system and to ensure that in the future we are better protected against extremists who come to the army to be trained in order, then, to threaten our population or other populations. Another comment. I urge that we finally have a more dynamic database. This question has been on the table for some time. There is some leak between the State Security and the SSRS. I hear that some information would still not be shared. In your answer, you said that there was not yet a database and no consultation with the Sûreté. It is important to be certain that persons who have already been identified do not find themselves in the armed forces because the screening of the SGRS would not have identified them as worrying. On the other hand, I am pleased that, since 1 January 2013, this small amendment that I proposed to screening has made it systematic today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u91	Let me give you some clarifications. Keeping radicals out of the army can be done when recruiting. When recruiting, it's clear. Obviously, if a person has ideas about the jihadist cause or links with certain groups of the same order, he or she will not be engaged. The Reservist's example is just as clear. We don't call him anymore, that's all. But for the career soldier, paid by the Defence, dismissal for extremist ideas is really difficult. On this subject, I made it very clear. If there are such people, we know them and follow them. At a time when their actions exceed an acceptable level, they must be held accountable. With regard to the database, I would like it to be dynamic, but we must take into account the privacy law. Since the events in Verviers, showing cooperation between the various intelligence services, there has been a great deal of predominance in favour of the latter rather than in the establishment of large structures. It is not overnight that we are going to create a dynamic database. It is the legislator who must initiate it and not the Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u92	I continue not to be reassured because once again, the move to action is something extremely difficult to anticipate in some cases. Since this is a particularly sensitive and sensitive issue, involving the armed forces, persons trained in the handling of weapons, etc., it is permissible to apply specific rules. As far as dynamic data exchange is concerned, I know that a number of elements still need to be better dealt with today. For example, when a foreign intelligence service (to be clear, U.S.) provides data to Defence, there is no authorization to transmit it to other intelligence services. I think that these issues need to be addressed in order to have databases that are not incomplete.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u93	Minister, I understand that there is a need to operate within the provisions of the law, and we all agree on that. Our concern is that people with evil intentions are walking around in the army and that one day they will use their knowledge and infrastructure against our system. I think we should try to avoid that. How close is the screening that has been in place since 2013? Perhaps it should be examined and evaluated? Can you keep certain people with different ideas and other insights outside of the Defense Department? You say that all legal possibilities for doing something are exhausted. Perhaps it is necessary to consider what additional initiatives can be taken in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u94	Debates of the European Parliament 2484 by Mr Maingain and No 2484 by Mr Martin and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) 2521 by Mrs Jadin were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u95	Madam President, I apologize for my absence earlier. I have therefore missed a number of answers from the Minister, but I had a discussion of a number of legislative initiatives in the Foreign Affairs Committee. On 10 November 2014, Defense signed an agreement with the city of Ostend for the use of the military sports infrastructure in the Boatsman Jonsen barracks, for the benefit of schools and sports clubs, recognised by their federations. Defense would have decided not to make the gym available anymore. The agreement has now been terminated by the city of Ostend. How frequently and by which schools and/or sports clubs was the infrastructure used in 2012, 2013 and 2014? Please provide an overview, with a distinction between the different rooms provided. What compensation was due to the Defense Department by either the city or the schools and/or sports clubs? How is the fee calculated? What total revenue did this yield for Defence in 2012, 2013 and 2014? Was there any compensation in the same years that was not paid on the due date? If so, when and for what amount? Was the agreement not respected in other areas in these years? If so, on which? Why is the gym no longer available? The agreement provides for consideration by the city, in particular maintenance of the green zone at the barracks and cleaning of the main streets and parking for the mess. Will the DOD now take these tasks on its own account?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u96	Turn and power room by the Hermes Athletics Club in 2012: 5 901 euros. In 2013: EUR 2 903. In 2014: EUR 2 288. Power Room the Royal Ostend Swimming Club: 4 139 euros. Mr De Vriendt, I will provide you with the data. I think this question goes beyond the framework of an oral question. Allow me to give you my appreciation as a minister. I will answer your specific questions. With the exception of some invoices disputed by the city, no problems or shortcomings related to this concession have been identified in recent years. What is the problem, however? Due to possible distortions of competition with the civilian sector and increased military use, the Defence Department has decided to remove the use of the fitness room from the new agreement. In addition to operating costs for the hall, the agreement does not provide for any consideration by the city for the use of the facilities. The costs charged are the variable costs, as used by the Defense Department. In 2012, this total amounted to EUR 22 052, EUR 9 503 in 2013 and EUR 6 370 in 2014. The total for the three years was 37 925 euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u97	Mr. Secretary, you started by giving an overview. In my question I also asked for a written summary. It is not intended to give an oral overview here. I would like an oral answer to other questions, including why the gym was removed from the agreement. You replied. So there's no problem for me. I had another question about the city's consideration, in particular the maintenance of the green zone and the cleaning of the main streets. The city did this in exchange for using the sports infrastructure. If that goes away, is there a solution? I take it the DOD is taking this on their own?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u98	According to my information, the agreement states that, in addition to the operating costs for the venue, there is no consideration from the city for the use of the installation. I don't think there's any consideration from the city.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u99	In the file in Ostend I have read it differently, but well, I will verify this. Bedankt.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u100	Mr President, Minister, this is a mid-February issue. I would have wanted to ask you before, but the agenda made it impossible. I will try to update my question as best I can. The B-FAST mission to fight Ebola – in which Defence played a major role – was launched in Guinea. This contribution took as its main form the provision of a single mobile laboratory, B-Life, installed in a N'zérékoré health centre where the team confirmed the possible presence of the virus in patients. At the same time, volunteers have contributed to the continuation of a new Japanese antiviral test, the first results of which are so encouraging that its employment has just been extended to other health care centres. The success of this mission was such that while the B-FAST mission was expected to stop in principle at the end of February, the managers of the care centre of the NGO ALIMA called on the Belgians to extend their mission for a third or even a fourth term. Indeed, the Belgian lab was able to accurately observe how this experimental antiviral works in the body of the infected patients. Knowing that with Ebola rapid reaction is paramount, the laboratory therefore represents an undeniable plus. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. How do you assess your department's involvement in the B-FAST team in the fight against this terrible epidemic? How did this very valuable contribution by Defence fit in with the funds made available by Development Cooperation? Was it a coordinated and integrated approach? What assessment do you draw up of the very strict health security procedure put in place for the members of this B-FAST team on site but also on their return to the country? How did it organize itself during the first rotation? How do you position yourself on Belgium's request to extend the B-FAST mission for a third or a fourth rotation? The United States has announced the withdrawal of its troops deployed to West Africa to fight Ebola, as the epidemic is in sharp retreat. Is it not, however, a risk that the international community will withdraw prematurely in this struggle? Finally, we know that the idea is, at the end of this mission, to leave this B-Life laboratory at the disposal of NGOs. In place of this, are other similar development projects under consideration?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u101	Mr Pirlot, the Defence's support for the deployment and establishment of the B-Life laboratory in Guinea has led to the rapid operationalization of this instrument. Thanks to the presence of support staff from Defence, among others, specialists at the Applied Molecular Technology Centre were able to focus on the integration of the laboratory and the development of procedures. Defence support has therefore greatly contributed to the success of B-Life's deployment. During the first two months, the Mission was able to receive financial support through the B-FAST processes. For the third rotation, in which B-FAST no longer participates, Defence continues, at the request of the Prime Minister, to provide staff support for a period of one month. Development Cooperation provides financial support for the operating costs of the laboratory during the third rotation. As for the costs incurred by the Defence, they will be billed to the NGO ALIMA. Defence's expertise in the implementation of B-Life is not unique and Defence is not planning to extend this support mission. As regards the health security of the B-Life and B-FAST detachments, Belgian civil protection seconded specialists during the implementation of the secondment. Such personnel shall continue to ensure the health security of deployed personnel and shall take all necessary measures to ensure safety upon the return of personnel. It should be noted, however, that only laboratory personnel are in contact with samples containing Ebola virus, under very strict safety and protection conditions. Under no circumstances are laboratory and support personnel allowed to contact potential Ebola patients. Finally, it is not for me to comment on the withdrawal of the capabilities of other nations or on the future of the B-Life laboratory because it is a private capacity (UCL).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u102	Minister, are other similar development projects under consideration?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u103	You have to be clear. B-FAST was under the responsibility of the Department of External Affairs. We were in support of B-FAST. Defence is therefore not considering a replacement project.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u104	Madam President, Minister, first of all, it is a matter of welcoming the importance of the symposium that you recently organized on the future of your department by the IRSD. I also wanted to thank you for the lapsus you had made to me by invoking a "weak" defense, instead of a "fiable". In your conclusion, addressed to the Minister of Budget, you explained that you had applied to the government for an extension of the 2015 Defence budget during the budgetary control scheduled for the end of March-early April. You would like to be able to "proficiate" a large part of the interdepartmental provision, a provision also coveted by many other departments. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions, Minister. What exact "extension" did you ask for for your department? Does this concern only the interdepartmental provision? Does it concern only the 2015 budget year or also the following? If this money is released in the next budget conclave, what should it be used for in your department? If this money were not to be released, and therefore at the current level of your budget, what would be the consequences for your department's investments, staff and debt?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u105	Mr Pirlot, I confirm that during the budgetary control for 2015, I intend to use the interdepartmental provision for investment and security. As stated by the Court of Auditors in its comments and observations on the draft State budget for the 2015 budget year, the Defence budget shows a significant negative balance compared to the existing one. I will be obliged to ask for the intervention of the interdepartmental provision also for the years to come. If the means are not granted, I will be obliged to postpone the payment of a few invoices to the following years, which would be detrimental to the budget and to the image of the State, since there would be moratorium interest to be paid.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u106	Thank you, Minister. You did not tell me the amount of the budget extension you planned to ask for. Don't you have a little idea about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u107	I have an idea, but there are some things that are being discussed within the government and not in a parliamentary committee room, nor in the media.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u108	Debates of the European Parliament 2577 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Ducarme has converted 2698 into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Top has been postponed to 2702. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Hufkens' 2718 expires. Questions Nos 2722 by Mr Top and 2731 by Mr Buysrogge were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u109	Madam President, Minister, a long time ago, in feudal times, it was the most normal thing in the world to award princely roaring military degrees and titles, which were, however, not in line with the qualifications and military capacity of these persons to carry out these functions in practice. In a very recent past, especially on March 25, 2010, when our king was still a prince, Prince Filip was promoted to lieutenant general and vice-admiral, the highest standing degrees in the army, the air force and the navy respectively. Since 21 July 2013, he has been a general of the Belgian army, four-star general of the army and commander-in-chief of the Belgian army. His brother, Prince Laurent, for his part was awarded the degree of captain-in-the-sea on 26 June 2004, the highest degree among the chief officers of the Navy. His sister, Princess Astrid, finally became a member of the armed forces as colonel of the medical component on 22 May 1997, the highest degree among the chief medical officers. The degree awarded to Princess Astrid did not, strictly speaking, exist; the correct name is the medical colonel, but it is quite obvious that this degree under this name could not be awarded to the person concerned because there was no qualification to go through life with the title of physician. Everyone agrees that this whole family, both then prince, present King Filip, Prince Laurent and Princess Astrid, would never have had these degrees without princely status. They therefore have no capacity to climb that high in the military order. I find the granting of military degrees to people who do not have the necessary qualifications an insult to those who do have to study hard for it and who do have heavy training in order to obtain these degrees. It may also be questioned to what extent such a regulation complies with a number of constitutional provisions. Article 10 of the Constitution states that there is no distinction between stands in the State and that the Belgians are equal before the law. Article 11 of the Constitution provides that the rights of Belgians must be granted without discrimination. I therefore have three specific questions for you, Minister. Since we have been behind these feudal times for a long time and have been living in a democratic constitutional state for some time, do you share my view that such practices should have been a thing of the past for a long time? Do you think that a legislative initiative should be drawn up in order to grant these military degrees in future only to people with the necessary qualifications and that there can no longer be any exceptions? Finally, I wonder what steps you have already taken to put an end to these practices. Despite the fact that I do not belong to your constituency, I certainly hope for a satisfactory answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u110	Madam President, Mrs Pas, in your detailed question you say about certain people and their knowledge, but without any clear control, I would never dare to make such statements, so I will leave those statements on your behalf. Except for the King, who, pursuant to Article 167 of the Constitution, commands the armed forces, the assignment of the uniform to the other members of the royal family has a rather ceremonial significance. Furthermore, the assignment of the uniform does not open up any financial right or other rights for the members of the royal family. The coalition agreement does not provide for legislative initiatives in this area, nor have I received a signal from my coalition partners that would underline the urgency and the need for such an initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u111	Minister, I did not receive an answer to your question. I am familiar with the coalition agreement in the meantime and, unfortunately, I have also found that there is very little, not to say nothing, about such matters. I am sorry that instead of taking legislative initiatives on this subject, you should consider creating creative roaring titles in order to grant Princess Elisabeth and her brothers and sisters, perhaps nephews and nieces, within a few years, and promote them. For our part, we believe that it is time for change and modernisation in this area. In the absence of a legislative initiative by the majority, I will certainly count on your group's support, because we have already taken a legislative initiative on this by submitting a legislative proposal which will undoubtedly be discussed in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u112	Madam President, Minister, the keeper wins, I would say. It's one of the last questions, but I'm happy to ask them. In my region, among other things, we see that Central Europe is increasingly dealing with a phenomenon in which young people occupy private domains to organise illegal parties at night. When I was mayor for six months, I had five hundred gypsies to visit, to say that it is not only young people, but also gypsies can visit unexpectedly and unannounced. Two weeks ago, on 28 February 2015, an illegal party took place in a warehouse on our military domain of 457 hectares. Defense and the government, of which I am a member, were not aware of this organization, let alone that we had given permission to do so. After a local police patrol of the Sint-Truiden-Gingelom-Nieuwerkerken zone caught one of the people involved, the Police Intervention Plan was put into effect and nearly forty people were summoned to Saint-Truiden that night. In fact, last year we experienced the same thing, only we were there at the time, namely at 11 p.m., and we immediately shut the place down. I am talking about the military domains in our country, which is part of a military air base that is no longer used by Defence. There were two soldiers present during the night, which we claimed. I didn't dare call you that night, although I felt like doing it. I would have made a phone call to your predecessor, but I couldn't do it with you. Of course, defense still owns the domain. The question is to what extent we can act there. Apparently, this military domain is no longer under surveillance. My question arises from a local experience, but I can imagine that the problem will occur on many sites. Given the events of the day before yesterday in that abandoned industrial building, we are asking ourselves questions about the future. How do you want to ensure that such unused sites are still protected? By the way, in Brustem there was almost an accident on the military domain at 9 a.m. between an English pilot who wanted to land and a Dutch car that suddenly appeared. If such an accident were to occur, who could be held responsible? When is Land Defense responsible for accidents on the premises? The question is also how a mayor can maintain order in his city when a group of several hundred people appear unexpectedly on an unguarded military private domain. With all comprehension, but when you call on Defence, there are only two people there who ask the local authorities to solve it themselves. Unguarded military domains are also attractive to other groups of people who have illegal practices in mind. As Secretary of State, how do you intend to prevent them from occupying unguarded military territories?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u113	Madam President, Mrs Heeren, thank you for your question. You speak of private domains, but I would just like to point out that a military domain is stricto sensu, a public domain. That's important for what I'll say later. Abandoned military domains are not permanently guarded, as you know. The surveillance is organised by the provincial command of the province concerned. This one runs patrols himself or has them carried out by units from the neighborhood. In the case of detection of infringements and/or destruction, local police shall be informed so that they can make the necessary findings. After all, when the domain is abandoned, it is no longer an official military quarter and soldiers have no authority, and so on, so it is the police who have to make the determinations. In addition, the necessary repairs are made to the entrances. The military domain of Brustem consists of a part that is still used by the Defense Department and a part that has already been granted or sold to third parties. Defence is only responsible in the event of accidental accidents if an error can be prevented from occurring by the Defense Department or an appointed officer. In the incident on the landing strip, which you mentioned, this was not the case and thus the responsibility of the Defense Department was not held back. Here it comes. According to the municipal law, the mayor is responsible for the administrative police on the territory of his municipality. In the event of riot, unwanted cooperation or serious breaches of public policy or other unforeseen events, the mayor must make all necessary arrangements through police regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u114	Minister, the mayor is indeed responsible. That is not a problem, and we have taken responsibility for it. I do find it special that you say that a military domain is a public domain. Then why do we have to ask for permission for everything, for example, to grant access? I understand your theorem, but I think they're a little short. I don't want to talk specifically about this domain. It's all the domains in the country. The reform at the Department of Defense will make a lot of sites empty. How do they deal with that? One and a half to two years ago, in the story of the gypsies, your predecessor said that they should disappear immediately. I replied to the Minister that he could not. Five hundred large trailers and heavy cars could we with a very small corps not remove manu militari from a domain. We have entered into dialogue, together with a number of people who work in the Royal School of Petty Officers and thus have a responsibility. They guided them after three days. However, if you are aware of what you have now said, I can assure you that in the shortest possible time many military areas will be the most crazy ones. Believe me, I'm free.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u115	I said that a military domain is basically a public domain. That does not mean, however, that everything is allowed there. Also on an ordinary public domain it is not allowed to organize a rave for example. We are also talking about set-aside and so on. It's impossible for the Defense Department to fully guard any terrain. I believe that everyone can agree on that. If you think there should be effective patrol, that's your idea, but we can't. Abandoned quarters are therefore not permanently guarded. Regular checks have been carried out, but other tasks have been given priority in the light of threat level 3. When I say that it is essentially about public domains, I do so to make the difference with private domains. No one was allowed to do anything in Brustem. So they're trespassing anyway. Could I have prevented that? I do not see how, precisely because there is no permanent surveillance in abandoned areas. One can't watch all of Leopoldsburg continuously.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u116	No, but then you can deal with the buildings on your domains differently. You can secure your buildings in such a way that you can't get in. I'll make it much easier. If you put a truck with clay floor in front of the front and back doors of the large pilots tomorrow, you won't get in. Defense needs to think creatively about how to deal with abandoned military sites. I'm making that suggestion with the best of intentions. You are not a competent minister, but neither are the local authorities or police commissioners. Safety comes first. Right now, two people are guarding that site. That's a drop on a hot plate. However, one can deal with the patrimony differently, I am convinced of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u117	Madam President, I have to be in Vilvoorde at 6:00 p.m. Since there are still few present, I would like to continue my work. I will be brief and I hope that my fellow Members will do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u118	That's three more questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u119	I'd like a short suspension.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u120	So the questions can still be dealt with if everyone asks their question as soon as possible. Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Vriendt converted 2846 into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 2858 by Mr Dallemagne will also be converted into a written question. Three further questions remain to be put: one from Mr Pirlot and two from Mr Crusnière.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u121	Madam Chair, Minister, my question will be very brief. The debate about a civic service is going well in Belgium. Initiatives in this direction already exist in several departments such as yours via the EVMI (Military Voluntary Commitment) status. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. How many young people have already subscribed to this status? Who are the young people who subscribe to this status? How does National Defence assess this status and its attractiveness to the target audience? What is your vision of this EVMI status for the future? Finally, are developments possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u122	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, EVMI status should not, a priori, be regarded as a civic service, but as a military commitment allowing some young people who are less educated and/or socially disadvantaged to enter the world of work. At the end of the period of pay enabling the person concerned to maintain his or her full social rights, i.e. family allowance, unemployment benefit, etc., he or she becomes a paid military candidate. In 2014, given the mixed success, the initial six-month pay period was limited to two months and the amount increased to make EVMI status more attractive. However, this measure did not have the desired effect. The recruitment of EVMI attracts few applicants. A total of 840 places of EVMI were opened for the years 2010 to 2014. 348 military EVMIs were recruited. These are 800 and 344 places in four years. At the moment there are still 21 soldiers under the EVMI status active in the Defense Department. 116 soldiers have been given a different status, 10 soldiers have left Defence after the end of their term and 201 soldiers have left Defence prematurely. The main reasons for the departure of the military with the EVMI Statute are a feeling of injustice in their career history compared to other statutes, a lack of information prior to the incorporation, and the income that is limited to a paycheck at the beginning of the career. Due to limited recruitment as a result of budgetary restrictions, no commitments under EVMI status are foreseen for 2015 There is currently no initiative to make the ECMI Statute more attractive or to bring it to the fore.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u123	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answers. It's always a pleasure to spend most of my day with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u124	Madam President, Minister, as part of the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration programme, it would appear that Belgium could provide training for Congolese officers in the military field. Our country could also train former members of the armed groups that have freely acceded to voluntary disarmament. Minister, can you confirm this information? If the latter are correct, can you tell me what trainings are being held under the disarmament programme? Can you give me any information about what will happen in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u125	Mr Crusnière, it is not foreseen at this stage that Belgium will train Congolese officers in the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration (DDR) project and no such request has been addressed to us. Defence is well involved in the training of Congolese officers, mainly in a advisory role. But these projects are exclusively part of the regular armed forces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (FARDC) and have nothing to do with the DDR. The information you mentioned is incorrect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u126	Minister, thank you. I'll check my information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u127	Madam President, Minister, my question concerns the military command of the Walloon Brabant. The military command's skills are too often overlooked despite its usefulness in crisis management, where it plays an important coordinating role between the province and Defence. It was also possible to check its usefulness, for example, during floods in Walloon Brabant. The military command may decide to make its equipment available to the communes. It is an essential role that it plays, and of course this utility depends on the material and human means that the commandments have at their disposal. Minister, what is your vision for the future role of the provincial military commands? To what extent will the budget allocated to the military command of the Walloon Brabant Province be affected by the savings that your department must make? What importance do you attach to the "assistance to the nation" missions in the Walloon Brabant province, where the army's central pharmacy is located?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u128	Madam President, the role of provincial commanders is important to our department. Indeed, they are the preferred intermediaries between Defence and both provincial and regional or national authorities. In a major crisis where civilian response capabilities are exhausted, inadequately adapted or unavailable within the required time frame, the provincial commander and his/her staff will make available to the governor by joining the provincial crisis centre where the provincial military commander will advise the governor and coordinate with the defence staff. It is only then that I will authorize the commitment of the necessary resources for the support requested. So my role is second-line. It is still too early to comment on the impact of savings in my department on provincial military commands. As for the Central Pharmacy located in Nivelles, it could, like any other unit located in the national territory, be engaged in a crisis. This was the case in the past when she was commissioned to manufacture and store Tamiflu, a drug used during the flu pandemic. It is clear that it has an important role to play. We will see for the future how to organize it in the most efficient way possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic108x.u129	Minister, thank you for your answers. Madam President, thank you for agreeing to ask my questions.
