ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament 2683 by Mr Blanchart was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u2	Minister, according to a number of press reports, on 10 March the EU condemned the destruction by Israel of temporary humanitarian shelters in East Jerusalem which were clearly marked as EU-funded. Israeli authorities claim that the structures were built in violation of Israeli law, because the area is listed as a national park. In addition to the destruction of the structures, media reports say that large areas of land have been levelled up by local farmers and a number of animal storage and stables have been destroyed. According to UN Security Council Resolution 478, all legal and administrative measures which seek to change the status and character of Jerusalem are invalid. They should not be recognised and have no effect on the applicability of the Fourth Geneva Convention. That convention prohibits the destruction of the ownership of the occupied population and obliges the occupying power to agree and facilitate the delivery of humanitarian aid. Firstly, will Belgium within the European Union call for compensation for the illegal destruction of humanitarian structures financed by European taxpayers' money? What's the reaction to that? Secondly, will Belgium support a European demand for Israel to comply with its international obligations and facilitate the reconstruction of those and other destroyed structures? In addition, we must ensure that aid projects are not destroyed anymore and that aid will be facilitated. Thirdly, what is the state of play in the dossier on the destruction of Belgian development projects in the Palestinian territories? You have also communicated about this in the press. It is clear that you want to work towards a compensation mechanism at European level. What are the results of this so far? Has a decision been taken at EU level? If so, which one? If there is no consensus at EU level, what is this about? In the absence of an EU position or consensus, have you already asked for compensation from Israel bilaterally? If not, why not? If so, what was Israel's answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u3	Minister, the number of destructions of EU-funded projects in the Palestinian territories is increasing. According to the European Commission, the value of the EU's aid projects effectively destroyed in the West Bank amounts to more than EUR 1.5 million. In response to a written question on this issue, the European Commission stated that in the event that the EU engagement with Israel does not lead to a tangible freeze of the destruction, confiscations, the EU and individual Member States will be able to request compensation. You too have condemned the destruction in our committee, Minister. You referred to the development of a compensation mechanism at European level. Which timeline was set for that commitment? What are the results so far? We know the information that has been disseminated in the media, but how much Belgian aid has actually been destroyed, damaged or confiscated in the West Bank? Will Belgium ask for compensation or restitution and guarantees that this does not happen again? A wave of violence is currently taking place, with Palestinians attacking Israeli citizens, supported by armed groups and in response to it, but that is the debate on chicken and egg products, the Israeli army is carrying out attacks in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. There are tensions on the Tempelberg or Haram al-Sharif, despite the agreements made in the past between the various parties. Hamas uses the situation to strengthen his position and speaks of a third intifada, which, of course, we do not hope for. I have a number of questions about the escalation of violence between Israel and Palestine. There's not much diplomatic activity. You have even recently cancelled a visit to Israel, which can be seen in the context of the difficult talks. However, good peace talks remain crucial for a long-term solution, which we have been hoping for for many years. What is the international context in which the conflict takes place? What initiatives are there? You have called for any action leading to a deterioration of the situation to be avoided. My question dates back to October 16. Have you been in contact with any of the parties? You've taken initiatives. How did you translate the reaction and what do you think it means?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u4	As Mr Van der Maelen is not present, his question No. 6540. Questions Nos 6736 and 7914 by Mrs Claerhout were added.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u5	Mr Minister, my questions also deal with the situation in Palestine and Israel, even if they concern a few other aspects. My first question concerns the situation in East Jerusalem. That question is somewhat outdated, because it dates back to October. It was the reports in October about the unrest in East Jerusalem and the Temple Mount and the increasing tensions in the West Bank. Both East Jerusalem and Tempelberg are a crucial and sensitive point for relations between Israel and Palestine and in the process of a two-state solution with East Jerusalem as the capital of the Palestinian State. Minister, how do you explain the reports of the increasing unrest in East Jerusalem, the Temple Mount and the West Bank? Do you see any connection between the many confrontations in the old city of Jerusalem and the measures taken and the tensions in the West Bank? How do you assess the impact on the peace process and on the status quo in relation to the status of East Jerusalem? How do you see the situation evolving? My second question is more recent. It also concerns the situation in Palestine. At the end of November 2015, we heard that Israel no longer wants to talk to the European institutions in the context of the peace negotiations. In response to the EU decision to require the labelling of products from the Israeli settlements on the West Bank as such, Prime Minister Netanyahu called for a review of the EU's involvement in all diplomatic processes relating to the Palestinians. Bilaterally, Israel will keep the canals open. It is true that there is no peace process but the European Union wants to be involved in a variety of projects, some of them regarding Palestine welfare. That is where he talks about development projects. “ With all those projects, we will need to re-examine whether it is feasible to consider the European Union as a partner while it is using measures of discrimination and boycott against the State of Israel”. There we see how the process of labelling, labelling, is directly linked to those development projects. This attitude could block essential European support for the Palestinian people, amounting to EUR 10 million. Minister, you also decided not to allow your planned December visit to take place. How do you evaluate the statements made by Prime Minister Netanyahu and what steps will you take with your services and the EU? How do you assess the impact of this on the peace process? How do you assess the impact on European development projects in Palestine? What implications does the situation have for our country's decision to recognise Palestine when it is considered most appropriate? Is there a link to the resolution we approved in the Chamber? In view of the recent evolution in the ongoing conflict, what steps do you consider necessary to address the long-term problem? Thank you for your vision of the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u6	Madam President, I will first respond to precise points relating to the destroyed projects or installations, and then, more generally, to developments in the Middle East. Indeed, the number of structures and projects destroyed or confiscated in zone C is worrying. Part of these structures and projects were financed by the European Union or by the Member States. For example, for our country it concerns part of the electricity network in the village of Khirbat-al-Tawil. This was financed by Belgium and carried out by the Belgian Technical Co-operative. The destruction of humanitarian projects has a direct impact on the population and clearly violates international humanitarian law. They cannot therefore be accepted without a response. I made it clear in October 2014 that Belgium will raise the question of the compensation to be paid by Israel in such cases at European level. Indeed, we strongly support a common European approach to the problem, as some projects from other EU Member States were also destroyed. I can confirm that the subject was discussed at European level and that the debates on it were constructive. Work still needs to be continued and deepened. It is clear that there is consensus on the need to respond systematically and effectively to threats, new destructions and confiscations of projects or structures. There is a dialogue with the Israeli authorities, and we will assess the situation in the coming months, to see if these consultations have resulted in a tangible freeze on the destruction and confiscations. I can tell you that Belgium took part in this discussion and in the various meetings that took place, and Belgium played a very active role in this. I can also confirm that we have had regular contacts with the Israeli authorities at various levels in Brussels, Jerusalem and Tel Aviv to avoid destruction in the future and to express our concern. We will continue to monitor developments closely. I can also confirm that Belgium will continue to invest in humanitarian assistance in zone C. If you would like further details on this matter, I would recommend that you address your questions to my colleague in the field of development cooperation. An active role means that we advocate direct action with compensation for what has happened in the past and an immediate end to the destruction. More generally, I can say that the European Union and the European Member States have always supported and continue to support the peace process. The statements made by the European High Representative, Mrs Mogherini, and my own statements are just two examples of this. There are regular discussions on this at the Foreign Affairs Council. Much attention is being paid to the evolution of this case. At the beginning of October, a meeting of the Quartet plus in New York took place with certain EU countries and countries from the region. I hope that the Quartet representatives will meet shortly and will recommend concrete measures to strengthen confidence. In order to have any chance of success, the parties concerned themselves must assume the main responsibility in the negotiation process. So far, there have been virtually no opportunities for real dialogue. The EU, the UN and other benevolent parties are ready to support this process and continue to call on both sides to work towards a negotiated political solution. Through our embassies, we remain in permanent contact with the local political authorities. I myself have recently received Palestinian Minister Azzam al-Amhad. On this occasion, I reiterated the Belgian position. I continue to call on the parties not to escalate the situation further and to work towards a credible negotiation process. This is always mentioned in our contacts with the Israeli authorities. As I said in my statement, the current crisis confirms the urgent need for a credible political process to achieve lasting peace. Only a negotiated, two-state solution will guarantee lasting peace and security, which Israelis and Palestinians want. This prospect must be put in place as soon as possible. The situation in East Jerusalem, throughout the region of the West Bank, the Gaza Strip and even in Israel is extremely worrying and extremely dangerous. First of all, I would like to stress that I condemn acts of terrorism and attacks against civilians. The leaders of both sides must now call for calm and restraint. They must also do everything possible to reduce tensions and avoid any action leading to a deterioration of the situation. The actions of the security services, inter alia, should be confined to self-defense. With regard to the status quo on the Temple Mount or Haram al-Sharif, our position is neither ambiguous. The status quo must be respected. This is about rules in an issue that is agreed across the international community, including Israel, since Prime Minister Netanyahu has reiterated his commitment to maintaining the status quo. We must therefore stick to this position. There is no point in changing this. As you know, the Prime Minister of Israel, Mr Netanyahu, has announced that he will suspend contacts with the European Union on the Middle East peace process. By the way, that was an important reason for my decision to postpone my visit. After the Prime Minister's statement, it was also difficult to draw up an agenda in Israel. However, the European Union continues to have contacts with the Israeli authority. Mrs Mogherini had contact with the Prime Minister in the margin of COP21 two weeks ago. It is clear to us that the EU must continue to play an important role in the peace process, not only in the Quartet, but also in a broader sense, in line with the conclusions of the various Foreign Affairs Councils on this matter. Belgium will continue to argue for this. We have asked for an EU Special Envoy for the Middle East. That appointment has also been made. The EU now has a special envoy for the Middle East. The only possible evolution now is a new contact between the EU and Israel to perhaps play a real role again. There was the very poor response of the Prime Minister following the announcement on the possible application of the rules on labelling of products from areas currently under Israel's control. We continue to provide humanitarian aid in zone C, in accordance with international law. With regard to the impact on European projects in Palestinian territory, our response will be based on facts and not on statements. We are now awaiting an evaluation of the precise facts. Madam President, allow me to say that we have not seen any positive developments in recent weeks or months. In the last few days, we have noticed that it was impossible to get the partners around the table. We will continue to maintain our contacts. Following contacts between the European Union, Israel and the Palestinian authorities, we will try to organise a new visit at the beginning of next year, as I said to the Israeli Ambassador, just before the announcement of the postponement of my visit. I also said the same to the Minister of the Palestinian Government. I have received a clear invitation from President Abbas and I will therefore try to return to Israeli and Palestinian territory at the beginning of next year. The exact date will still be fixed in consultation with the European Union and the partners on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u7	Minister, we were just talking about Burundi. In this context, you said that our country's margin for unilateral action is very small. It's always pretty limited. However, with regard to Israel and Palestine, I believe that there is indeed an opportunity, a lever for Belgium to do something outside the European framework. I therefore do not understand why you have still not asked Israel a bilateral question about compensation for the destruction in Khirbat al-Tawil. The project there is financed by Belgian money, not European money. The European negotiations have been going on for more than six months now, and I think they have been going on for almost a year, so they are progressing very slowly. Why do you not want to regard this as an economic dispute rather than a political one? It is almost a business dispute between the State of Belgium and the State of Israel. Europe has little to do with this in itself. Why don't you ask Israel for compensation on a bilateral basis? We had a conversation with the Israeli ambassador. She said that she did not receive any questions from Belgium to that effect. I would also like to put a second point to you. Moreover, the Israeli Ambassador has said that there is now an agreement between Belgium and Israel, whereby Belgium will now apply to the Israeli authorities for all development projects in zone C. As far as infrastructure in Khirbat al-Tawil was concerned, that had apparently not happened. So Israel says that Belgium put something there with BTC, but without Israeli approval. In Zone C, as you know, Israel still has to issue permits. Israel claims that Belgium has not applied to Israel. Now Israel says that this is settled and that Belgium will apply to Israel in advance, so it will make prior agreements with the Israeli government. Can you give me any more explanation? Is that correct or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u8	It appears, Minister, that our pressure on this matter has not really helped things forward so far. I do not want to follow Mr De Vriendt in all the consequences of his question, but in part. We must not lose sight of the bilateral dimension of this issue. We know that Israel is particularly reluctant to accept such questions, but I have heard your concern in your reply and it is entirely in line with the one that exists in the Chamber. Our options in this area are limited, but I would like to insist once again that we exhaust all possibilities because we are dealing here with a matter which is reasonably indisputable in international law. As a friend of the two-state solution, I can say that the Israeli dossier is not strengthened by the attitude the government is adopting at the moment. To put it in Flemish, she threatens to stick a finger in her own eye. Our good contacts with Israel therefore need to be intensified in order to make it clear that an expression of goodwill is more than appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u9	Minister, once again your last sentences are not optimistic. There's no positive coat rack again. It's not possible to get the people around the table. So I'm really starting to ask questions on the next step. We have just discussed the situation in Burundi. We have also asked what the next steps will be if the current approach does not work and when these steps are taken. I expect a view from you on this, Minister. If the visit were to take place, I certainly expect a thorough consideration to be given to what steps Belgium can take, of course in an EU context. I would like to repeat, and we have already asked many questions about this in the past year, there is indeed a broad consensus that we can play a role in this. Mr. Secretary, if I were you, I would really make use of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u10	Madam President, Minister, can you explain the statement made by the Israeli Ambassador?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u11	I'm not commenting on an ambassador's statements. I'm in contact with the ministers, but I'm not commenting on an ambassador's statement. I wasn't there either.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u12	But can you answer my question? Has an agreement been made between Belgium and Israel?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u13	No. Never. You know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u14	So Belgium will not make a prior application to Israel before proceeding?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u15	That was never the case, and it will continue to be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u16	So it's not.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u17	Madam President, Minister, last May, violent clashes between the police and insurgents in Kumanovo, the second city of Macedonia, resulted in 22 deaths and 38 injuries. Thirty individuals, mostly Macedonian, from the Albanian minority were charged with terrorism. The inhabitants, who had fled from the places of the fighting, were able to return to their homes and see the devastation: dozens of houses destroyed in a neighbourhood affected by explosions and heavy weapons fire. NATO and the European Union are particularly concerned and fear a resurgence of a conflict similar to that of 2001. In a difficult political context within the government, both jurisdictions called for restraint. Minister, how is the situation in Macedonia evolving? What is the attitude of neighbouring countries such as Kosovo, Albania, Serbia and Greece? What about Macedonia's application for membership of the European Union and its willingness to join NATO? What diplomatic initiatives have been put in place in this context? Are any initiatives taken at the level of the European Union or the Council of Europe in particular?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u18	Mr Blanchart, the developments to which you refer are indeed serious. During my talks with Macedonian representatives, during my working visit to Skopje in April, in my capacity as Chairman of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, I was keen to call on everyone to be responsible for resolving the political crisis, in particular by guaranteeing the conditions for the return to normal functioning of Parliament, refraining from any further action endangering political dialogue, stressing the need for justice to demonstrate its independence by investigating the numerous cases made public by the opposition and recalling the importance of freedom of the press. The political situation has been somewhat relaxed thanks to the agreement reached on 2 June last between the opposition and the majority, supplemented by the agreement of 15 July. These agreements, facilitated by Commissioner Hahn, provide for a transitional period leading to early elections in April 2016. Progress has already been made in their implementation, as evidenced by the return of the opposition to Parliament, the appointment of a special prosecutor to independently investigate the facts recorded by wiretapping or the entry into government of opposition representatives. The next step is the formation, in mid-January, 100 days before the elections, of a government responsible for organising the parliamentary elections on 24 April 2016. With regard to the incident in Kumanovo, I would like to point out a key point, both regionally and nationally. All concerned have ensured that the spirit is calmed down and that this does not degenerate into an inter-ethnic incident. The large number of grey areas in this respect cannot be denied. Of course, I offered my condolences to my Macedonian counterpart and pleaded for a thorough investigation into the incident. That is the approach that we must adopt systematically. With regard to accession to the European Union, the country has been a candidate since 2005. The European Commission's 2015 report again contains a positive recommendation to start accession negotiations, but this is conditional on the implementation of the agreements of 2 June and 15 July. It is clear that the political crisis is not in favour of the country's European aspirations. It is essential that political forces continue their efforts to ensure that the early legislative elections of April 2016 are held in a satisfactory manner. It is from this crucial point of view that we can really take stock.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u19	Minister, thank you for taking stock of this very delicate situation. Many more answers will of course be given after the April 2016 elections.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u20	Mr President, Minister Hassan Rohani, who took office as President in August 2013, promised to appease international relations, to extend the protection of all religious groups and to put an end to discrimination in the broad sense of his country, especially those of which women are victims. Measures towards the democratic path had to accompany his rise to power. However, his policy does not seem to go in that direction. For example, last April, the feminist newspaper Zanan, which was relaunched in May 2014 after years of interruption, was again suspended for articles "injuring public chastity" by "promoting the cohabitation of unmarried couples", says the "white marriage" in Iran. The magazine defends itself and states that it has simply reported on the existence of this practice and the unfortunate experiences of women, in order to explain that this type of relationship resulted in violations of women's rights. The editor-in-chief had to be brought to justice in this case. More concerned, in their latest report of March 2015, the United Nations states that last year Iran carried out a number of "deeply disturbing" executions and failed to deliver on its promise to protect ethnic and religious minorities. Violations of the rights of women, journalists and opponents are compounded. According to the report, Iran executed at least 500 people between January and November 2014, and perhaps much more. Minister, how should we look at this situation? What information do you get about the evolution of human rights, freedom of expression and the position of women - at the societal, social, political and legal levels - in Iran? In this context, what are the possibilities for dialogue with Belgium and the attitude of Belgian diplomacy?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u21	Mr Blanchart, I obviously share your concern about the human rights situation in Iran, particularly as regards the number of executions. The figures reported for the first six months of this year are alarming, with 532 executions being reported. Of particular concern is the fact that 70 per cent of capital punishments carried out in the country are linked to drug trafficking. We need to have a debate with Iran on whether there are any other ways to combat this trafficking. The minimum standards prescribe, inter alia, that the death penalty may be imposed only for the most serious crimes. Freedom of expression remains flouted. Many journalists, bloggers and activists are subjected to restrictions and even deprivation of liberty. As regards the place of women, I refer you to my answer to your question No 3109, which remains valid. I recall that the European Union has adopted sanctions because of the human rights situation in Iran. These remain in force, regardless of the nuclear debate that has taken place with the country. The UN Human Rights Council appointed a Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Iran in 2011. Belgium supported this appointment and last March co-sponsored the Council resolution extending the mandate of the Special Rapporteur. At the March session of the Human Rights Council, Belgium participated in the interactive discussion with the Special Rapporteur and addressed the issues of minimum standards and women's rights. Our country also reiterated its appeal to the Iranian authorities to cooperate with the Special Rapporteur and to allow him to visit the country. It also brought the human rights situation in Iran to the attention of the Human Rights Council during the debate on the agenda item "Situation requiring the attention of the Council". In October 2014, our country made recommendations on the death penalty, the right to a fair trial and freedom of expression during the universal periodic review of Iran. More recently, Belgium co-sponsored the resolution of the Third Committee of the UN General Assembly on the human rights situation in Iran. This resolution addresses the issue of the application of the death penalty in Iran in a fairly comprehensive manner. Belgium regularly addresses the issue in its bilateral contacts; As with all countries, human rights are an integral part of our bilateral relations with Iran. During my last visit to Iran and during my various contacts with my Iranian counterpart, I had the opportunity to discuss these various topics. I do not go back to the individual cases that I also had the opportunity to address, including Iranian citizens – I am thinking in particular of a young Iranian who had studied in Liège – but I had the opportunity to address the broader issue of the death penalty. My colleague has committed himself to addressing this situation of the death penalty in the bilateral dialogue with Belgium, as he has committed himself to doing in the dialogue with the European Union. This is already a first step. That is why I referred to the large number of executions related to the problem of drug trafficking. One of the debates is indeed to discuss other ways to combat this trafficking, which exists to a very large extent in Iran. I hope that in our regular contacts and political consultations with Iran we will be able to develop this discussion on the death penalty. We play a leading role in the fight for the abolition of the death penalty. From time to time, we can welcome, as has just been done in Mongolia, a positive development in this area. There is still a lot of work to be done and we will have the opportunity to come back to it actively on 1 January next. As you know, Belgium has been re-elected to the UN Human Rights Council. We will pay much more attention to this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u22	Minister, thank you for continuing to follow this situation in a country that may deserve a second revolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u23	Minister, three Moroccans were sentenced to three years in prison on Friday, May 22, 2015, in Taourirt, in the north-east of the kingdom, for homosexuality. This is the most severe penalty provided for in the Moroccan Penal Code for this "offence". During their custody, the two men claimed to have been put in contact through a third person, arrested in turn. The three defendants who confessed to their "delict", were also prosecuted for "prostitution" and "obstacle to the investigation". Last March, Human Rights Watch (HRW) called in vain on Morocco to decriminalize homosexuality. In particular, the NGO argued that the Constitution of the Kingdom, adopted in 2011 in the context of the Arab Spring, emphasizes that "everyone has the right to privacy". This should lead to the abolition of the law criminalizing consenting sexual relations between persons of the same sex. Minister, what are your returns from LGBT rights in Morocco? Have there been any notable developments in these? Have you ever had discussions with the authorities of this country on LGBT rights, which are a fundamental element of respect for human rights in this country partner of our Development Cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u24	The new Moroccan Constitution adopted in 2011 devotes more than 20 articles to the issue of human rights and organizes the establishment of monitoring institutions, including the National Human Rights Council. This is a positive development. While the human rights agenda is constantly changing and has seen positive developments, the context is not always conducive to openness. This is particularly the case with the human rights of LGBTI people, to be comprehensive. In fact, homosexuality is generally tolerated in Morocco, as long as it is discreet. At the legislative level, Moroccan law penalizes what it calls "injurious or counter-nature" acts between persons of the same sex, which are punishable by imprisonment from six months to three years and a fine of 120 to 1,200 dirhams, equivalent to 10 to 110 euros. In addition, Moroccan laws prohibit the establishment of associations on the basis of sexual tendencies. The debate on homosexuality has seen the emergence of a number of initiatives aimed at lifting the taboo, such as the creation of the Kifkif organization in 2004 and the launch in 2008 of a petition calling for the repeal of the law by the Moroccan Human Rights Association. As you recalled, in collaboration with Human Rights Watch, this year, on the eve of the International Day against Homophobia and Transphobia, the collective Aswat, a minority rights group, published, as part of the Love is not a crime campaign, a manifesto for the elimination of all forms of discrimination in Morocco. Exchanges with Moroccan authorities on human rights are part of a comprehensive approach to respect for human rights, including LGBTI rights, both bilaterally and at European level, and are an integral part of our bilateral relations. As far as I am concerned, I am careful to attach particular importance to this issue. Bilateral contacts are still planned in the first quarter of next year, with several members of the government. We will return to these issues on this occasion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u25	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u26	Questions Nos 4662 by Mr Crusnière, 7813 by Mr Van der Maelen, 5257 by Mr Van Hecke and 5376 by Mr De Vriendt have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u27	Mr Minister, after the terrible and bloody attack in Tunisia last June and the more recent attack on 24 November, which killed thirteen people, you announced your intention to build better cooperation between several Member States of the European Union (the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Belgium) and the Mediterranean countries in order to improve and intensify the fight against terrorism. If the fight against terrorism is essential and calls for concrete collaboration, for my group, Tunisia, and our Mediterranean neighbourhood, must be a European priority in the broad sense. It is not just a fight against terrorism or a military approach; it is also necessary to tackle the disillusionment of young people and to allow economic recovery for the benefit of all. Therefore, Minister, what exactly is your desire to establish better cooperation in the exchange of information between the countries of the European Union and the Mediterranean countries? What contacts have you already had in connection with this project? What is the state of affairs today with regard to Belgian and European cooperation with Tunisia in support of its reform, democratisation and socio-economic recovery process? Is the European Neighbourhood Strategy adapted to the security and socio-economic challenges of this partner and priority region?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u28	Mr Crusnière, the security situation in Tunisia remains very precarious. The attack on the bus carrying the presidential guard in Tunis on 24 November, unfortunately, once again confirmed it. Since the attacks on Bardo and Sousse, the European Union has strengthened its cooperation in the fight against terrorism and increased its support to address the socio-economic challenges facing the country. Tunisia remains a political priority for the European Union, as a model of success in the democratic transitions that began in 2011, in a region that remains plagued by instability and insecurity. This priority took the form of a privileged partnership with Tunisia in April 2014, as well as a new action plan covering the period 2013-2017, coupled with a substantial financial commitment and a mobility partnership. The new European Neighbourhood Policy will mobilise efforts to support inclusive economic and social development. New emphasis will be placed on intensifying work with partner countries in the security sector, mainly in the areas of conflict prevention and counter-terrorism and radicalization policies. The achievement of safe and legal mobility on the one hand and the fight against illegal migration, trafficking and smuggling of human beings on the other are also priorities. Finally, greater attention will be paid to working with partners on energy security and climate action. The European Union, like Belgium, is part of the group of major bilateral partners, the G7+3, which look through a structured dialogue how better to help Tunisia fight the threat of terrorism and violent extremism. The European Union delegation in Tunis is also one of the nine delegations of the European Union throughout the world that have recently been strengthened by an expert in anti-terrorism and security. Since 2011, Belgium has also mobilized bilaterally and within the European Union to support the democratic transition process. Projects have been financed by various Belgian bodies in many sectors. During my visit to Tunis on the 5th and 6th but last, I also called for a strengthening of economic relations between Belgium and Tunisia. I also stressed my wish to resume discussions with the departments concerned with a view to the possible conversion of part of the bilateral debt. At the end of September, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Defence and the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration visited Tunisia. The visit laid the foundation for closer cooperation in various areas within their competence. On 27 November 2015, the Council of Ministers agreed on the participation of the integrated police in the Democratic control of armed forces mission in Tunis in order to support the improvement of security sector governance through the secondment of a federal police officer. To return to the Sousse attacks you mentioned, I would like to say that our embassy has responded quickly to these attacks. A consular team quickly went there to provide support to our fellow citizens. After these attacks, we also decided to temporarily advise against all travel to Tunisia, with the main concern for the safety of our fellow citizens. Since then, developments in the security situation on the ground have been closely monitored by my services. The travel notice and instructions for our citizens living in or wishing to visit this country are regularly reviewed in the light of the new security measures put in place by the Tunisian authorities, and in close consultation with the Belgian intelligence services and the OCAM. Currently, due to the persistence of a high level of threat throughout the country, we continue to advise against non-essential travel to Tunisia. Of course, there is no ban on going to Tunisia. However, we are well aware of the important efforts made by the Tunisian authorities to improve the security situation and to combat the terrorist threat. We hope that they will quickly bear fruit in order to allow us to change our travel notice. I would like to add that steps are being taken within NATO to strengthen the training of special forces and security forces in Tunisia. The Minister of Defence was made aware of Belgian participation in the matter. I believe that we must do everything we can to help Tunisia make progress in this area. You will easily understand - I started with this - that the last attack on the presidential guard in Tunis is part of our periodic assessments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u29	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, let us wait for Mr Blanchart's return before dealing with the questions under points 11 to 16. In the meantime, Mrs Grovonius can put her question under point 17.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u31	Madam Chair, Minister, this question was originally addressed to the Prime Minister, but it was referred back to you. On 20 May 2015, MEPs adopted in plenary a series of amendments, including Amendment 155, which make the European regulation on conflict minerals mandatory throughout the supply chain. On 23 July 2015, the majority in the House adopted a CD&V resolution defending a much weaker and less courageous position, largely based on a voluntary business approach, contrary to the socialist proposal which wanted to take over the European Commission's proposal. Mr Minister, what position will Belgium take in this matter in the European Council? Do you intend to require a mandatory due diligence system from the beginning of the chain to the end of the chain? Or do you intend to require that this obligation not be limited to European companies, but to all companies placing these ores or products containing these ores in Europe, beyond importers? Finally, do you intend to argue that this regulation should include the definition of a conflict zone in line with that used by the OECD in order to ensure global coherence?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u32	Mrs Grovonius, as you mention, after it was tabled by the European Commission in March 2014, the text of a regulation on supply chains for importers of tin, tantalum, tungsten, gold ore and gold originating in conflict or high-risk areas was debated in the European Parliament and was the subject of a resolution by the Belgian Federal Parliament. At present, at Council level, a draft position is silent. This proposal provides that importers responsible for tin, tantalum, tungsten, gold ore and gold originating in conflict or high-risk areas meet a number of requirements, including due diligence. Belgium supports this proposal by the Luxembourg Presidency as a basis for negotiations with the other institutions. It is a question of speaking to the trialogue. The latter is expected to start in 2016 under the Dutch presidency. So we are not going to imagine breaking this procedure of silence. What we wanted was not to waste time in negotiations between the institutions. During the procedure, Belgium will ensure a balanced treatment between European and non-European operators as well as the maximum convergence between the OECD definitions and the European Regulation. We should, in the coming hours or minutes, know more about the procedure of silence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u33	Oh, good!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u34	Of course, we are not the only ones who have to answer. But I confirm that we support the Luxembourg Presidency's proposal. We'll see if others have a different opinion. If this is not the case, the trialogue should be able to start under the Dutch presidency from the beginning of 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u35	Maybe I should have asked my question in a few minutes! Minister, thank you for these points of answer. I will come back later with new questions, since I understand that the procedure is under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u36	That's right!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u37	Mr Dallemagne is not here. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Claerhout converted 6882 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u38	Minister, from 6 to 8 October Mr Erdogan visited our country, this country, and he received the Grand Ribbon in the Order of Leopold from the King. This decoration can be seen in a purely protocolary manner and, I presume, there is no position on any merits or defects of President Erdogan. However, we must avoid it. I said on 7 October that this opportunity could be abused in the Turkish election campaign which has now ended. Of course, I may assume, it is up to you to contradict this, if necessary; I hope not, the granting of the Great Ribbon did not mean that Belgium supports the policy of the Turkish President or his party as such. As the border between Mr Erdogan's office as President and that of party activist is very unclear, no member of the N-VA Parliament was present at the meetings which took place following his visit. However, there remain uncertainties about the decision on decoration that was given. That is why I have the following questions. Are there any examples of Heads of State who did not receive decoration like the Grandlint during a state visit to Belgium? When was the decision taken to invite the Turkish President to visit Belgium? Where and why did this visit get the status of'state visit' and not that of 'work visit'? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u39	Madam President, on the occasion of the opening of the Europalia Turkey 2015 festival, Turkish President Erdogan was invited to Belgium by His Majesty the King on 27 February 2015. This visit took place from Sunday 4 October to Tuesday 6 October 2015. As part of this state visit, an exchange of honorary signs at the highest level was carried out, which belongs to the teams of a state visit. This means that the Grandlint in the Order of Leopold should be granted to the Turkish President, following the existing diplomatic and protocolary practices. In this respect, I would like to point out that no opinion was needed from the Consultative Commission because it does not fall within its competence and the procedure provided for in Article 6 (3) of the Law on the award of honorable awards in national orders does not apply. During the last 20 years, as part of the incoming and outgoing state visits, the Grandlint in the Leopold Order was granted in 2014 to the Presidents of China and France, in 2011 to the German Federal President, in 2009 to the President of Romania, in 2008 to the President of Hungary, in 2007 to the President of Latvia, in 2006 to the Presidents of Kazakhstan and Lithuania, in 2004 to the President of Finland and His Majesty the King of Morocco, in 2003 to the Presidents of France and Bulgaria, in 2002 to the Presidents of Hungary and Italy, in 2001 to the President of Greece and Princess Victoria of Sweden, in 1999 to the President of Portugal, and in 1998 to the President of Italy and the German Federal President. As regards the organisation of the state visit of the President of Turkey, I can tell you that it is a tradition to send an invitation to the head of state put in the spotlight by Europalia. In recent years, we have followed the same reasoning for India, China and Russia.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I note that in this case tradition has been followed and there has been no special treatment. The award of the Grand Ribbon in the Order of Leopold should therefore not be given any more significance than following the classical procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u41	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you a question following an article in the press that Belgium would be a poor contributor to UN peacekeeping missions. At the end of 2014, Belgium withdrew its contingent of 100 peacekeepers from Lebanon, where it had participated in UNIFIL since 2006. At that time, my group strongly challenged the government's decision in view of the importance of this mission and its added value in the regional context we know. A Belgian participation which, moreover, was an argument of weight in the context of our candidatures for various UN mandates. Under this government, Belgium reportedly sent only eight military personnel to United Nations operations while Belgium applied to become a non-permanent member of the Security Council for the period 2018-2019. President Obama also convened a summit in New York to discuss ways to strengthen the current 16 UN missions. Belgium, like Europe, seems to have shown itself to be very tiring on this occasion and would have just proposed the provision of equipment. Minister, can you clearly explain the government's position on the contribution to UN peacekeeping missions? What is the importance of these missions to you and how do you understand decisions already taken, such as in relation to Lebanon? Have you had any contact with your Defence colleague to determine whether Belgium intends to be more proactive with regard to current or future UN missions as part of the development of the new strategic plan that we are still waiting for?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u42	Mr Crusnière, Belgium is indeed a candidate for a seat as a non-permanent member of the Security Council for the period 2019-2020. The election will take place in 2018. At the moment, the appreciation for us seems quite positive in the United Nations, since we have just been re-elected to the ECOSOC Council in October and we have just been re-elected to the Human Rights Council. We will be sitting from 1 January 2016. In this context, I stress Belgium's willingness to continue, taking into account budgetary realities, its traditional commitment to support United Nations-mandated peacekeeping operations. On 24 September, the Council of Ministers decided to send seven of our military personnel to Mali as part of MINUSMA. The first three were deployed on December 11th. The next four will be completed at the end of January 2016. In addition, I would point out that for the current year, our direct contribution to the United Nations peacekeeping budget was $85 million. As regards the Belgian disengagement of the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon, I refer you to my reply, published on 8 December last, to the written question No 21 put by your colleague Philippe Blanchart. The Departments of Defence and Foreign Affairs maintain regular exchanges on a number of international issues, including those relating to peacekeeping operations, which have recently been the subject of a major assessment and reform exercise within the United Nations. Belgium has, moreover, contributed to the work of the high-level panel set up by the Secretary-General of the United Nations. Together with our partners in the European Union, we are following closely the way in which the conclusions are gradually being implemented. The future Belgian participation in United Nations operations will therefore have to be integrated into the new framework that is emerging. In particular, with regard to the Belgian military capabilities potentially deployable for possible engagement in UN missions, you will have noted that the Defence Operational Plan foresees further interventions for 2016. Attention will be paid to the United Nations operations for which Belgium could bring real added value. I suggest, of course, that you address my Defence colleague, who will be in a better position to provide you with concrete and quantified information in this area. As I had the opportunity to say during the debate on the general policy note, it is obvious that we must also take into account the deployments of Belgian forces for actions other than United Nations operations. I am of course thinking of the coalitions that sometimes form themselves very specifically. We have participated in operations in Afghanistan and Libya, but we are also present in Iraq through the formation of the Iraqi army in Baghdad or the special forces in Jordan, which protect the Dutch forces through F-16s. The Minister of Defence recently announced that, next year, we will be participating again, with these aircraft, in operations in the region. As you know, we also accompany France's maritime interventions in the Mediterranean by means of a frigate escorting the Charles de Gaulle. We must of course see the various operations to which we are called upon to contribute. In any case, our attention is very much focused on UN missions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u43	Minister, thank you for your answers. I sincerely count on you and your persuasion to ensure that the discussions on the Defence strategic plan strongly insist on Belgium's participation in United Nations missions – as you rightly say – that it brings added value. This remains essential for our country's position on the international stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u44	Minister, the Islamic State group seized Palmyra last May, leaving the worst to fear for its inhabitants and archaeological heritage. In recent days, images in support, the Syrian army claims to have returned to the ground around the city of Palmyra. This progress is part of a great offensive to regain this oasis of the Syrian desert, 210 km north-east of Damascus. The Russian Federation is expanding its efforts to support the Syrian army's ground operations in the area. These offensives are part of the fight against the financing of the Islamic State. Indeed, in the Palmyra region are the targets representing one of the main sources of funding. Minister, how do you look at this announcement? Could you inform us about developments in the region, particularly in Palmyra? My second question concerns the financing of Daesh. As we know, the fight against terrorism cannot be respited and the international community must unite to defend our values of human rights and freedoms. Beyond the actions to be taken or already taken and indispensable in the context of a 3D approach, new initiatives must be taken imperatively to literally cut off the financing of terrorist organisations such as Daesh. We have already often discussed this subject and tabled texts. It is in this sense that the United States Ambassador to the United Nations, Samantha Power, indicated that the United States wants to consolidate and rationalize the efforts of the Security Council on the financing of Daesh. What measures have been taken by the United Nations to combat the financing of Daesh? What are the results? How have these been applied in Belgium? What further steps could be taken to make sanctions against those who help Daesh more effective? Has our country taken any such initiatives in relevant international forums?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u45	Mr Minister, the nature of the terrorist attack on the Russian aircraft has already been clarified since the question was tabled. Obviously, it's not an accident. However, I would like to maintain the questions that deal with the negative travel advice issued by Foreign Affairs. I can understand that such travel advice is being issued, but why is it not decided on such travel advice for a larger area? The likelihood of such an attack being repeated in precisely that region is rather small. On what basis do you decide to proceed with a negative travel advice? A more general question. What do you think is the capacity of IS to commit a terrorist attack outside its own territory? Does the risk increase? What clues do you have?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u46	Minister, my question is also about travel advice. If travel advice is adjusted, it usually concerns regions. There is then talk about safety in certain regions and there may be a loss of life. A travel advice for an entire country is rarely adjusted. We have a number of examples. You have already mentioned Tunisia and there is Egypt. I understand that adapting travel advice is a difficult balance between economic interests and citizens' security. A bit striking in this situation was that your travel advice came later than the decision the tour operators had already made to cancel flights to Sharm el Sheikh because they felt it was no longer safe. I understand the tour operators very well, because of course they bear the responsibility when they bring passengers to those destinations. What were the key elements to formulate a negative travel advice five days after the plane crashed? In the meantime, how are the security measures at Sharm el Sheikh airport? As Mr De Vriendt has already asked, why only Sharm el Sheikh and not all Egypt? What procedure was followed to determine whether a general or regional travel advice was given? Is consultation with the travel sector taking place when deciding on a negative travel advice? How do you explain that the negative travel advice in this case was only formulated after the private sector had already said it was no longer safe to bring customers to Sharm el Sheikh?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u47	Minister, I agree with the questions put by my fellow Members and in particular by Mrs Bellens on Sharm el Sheikh. I would like to open this question a little bit to the problems in Syria and the Middle East. A number of events in the recent past have given the impression that setting up a broad international coalition against IS is accelerating. We would welcome that, although I understand that the American and Russian Foreign Ministers came together today and the original optimism about finding a common position which was voluntaristic. In the meantime, that has been contradicted by the facts. In any case, overcoming IS is not enough to achieve a stable Syria. That is, after all, what we are all trying to achieve. You write in your policy paper that a political solution is essential for a stable Syria in the long term. Your European colleagues have also expressed their preference for this with varying approaches to the position of Bashar aI-Assad. There would be a transitional government. It is absolutely not clear how long this government will last. Free and fair elections must then be held. A problem that concerns me and my group is that the various communities within Syria must be able to find a definitive solution. The mistrust between Sunnis, Shiites, Alawites, Christians, Druzes, Kurds, Yezidis and so on is a crucial obstacle to achieving a lasting solution. Regardless of which coalition is formed, it always gives the impression that one or the other card is drawn. The mistrust could perhaps be partly overcome by giving a form of self-government to the various groups. To the extent that they can shape their own policies and future, they might feel less threatened. I therefore have the following questions for you, Minister. In the diplomatic negotiations, it was agreed in November that the Syrian Government and the opposition, whatever that means, would start talking to each other from 1 January. The U.S. State Department calls January 1st a target, not a deadline. That's an important nuance. There is, of course, also great disagreement as to which opposition groups can participate in the negotiations and which groups are excluded. How do you see the situation? Following on, how representative is the opposition? There is a great deal of uncertainty about this. What is the opposition's position on the transitional period in which Bashar al-Assad could play a certain role? What scope do you see in a definitive solution for self-government for the various population groups that Syria is rich in? After all, let us not forget that the borders ever defined for Syria are very arbitrary borders that may have little to do with reality on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the threat posed by terrorism to the Middle East, to Europe and to the whole world is obviously still important. It obliges us to constantly adapt our attitude and to adopt a multidimensional approach aimed at the region like Europe, in particular combining political and diplomatic efforts with security or preventive measures. We have always stressed that the military strategy against Daesh would not suffice. A political strategy, humanitarian support to the affected populations and assistance to the countries of the region were needed to address the consequences of the crisis. The root roots of crises must also be addressed. In Syria, it is essential and urgent to see an inclusive political transition that will finally silence weapons. Since the meeting of the International Syrian Support Group in Vienna, the political process for resolving the conflict has begun. The intention is to start negotiations between President Assad's regime and the Syrian opposition from 1 January 2016. In order to establish a representative delegation of the Syrian opposition, Saudi Arabia has brought together various groups of the opposition in Riyadh. There an agreement was reached on 10 December last week on the representation of the Syrian opposition during the negotiations. They also advocate, among other things, the pluralistic composition of future Syria, as well as the protection of the country's territorial integrity, elements which I can, of course, endorse. The Syrian opposition is also proposing the departure of President Assad and his immediate surroundings as a precondition for the transition process. However, the ISSG's joint statement does not express any opinion on the future of President Assad, although it remains clear that someone responsible for so many human rights violations, and possibly even war crimes, cannot be part of a future democratic Syria. After six months of negotiations, i.e. mid-2016, the intention is to install a transitional government, which could organise new elections within 18 months. Jordan is also working on drawing up a list of terrorist organisations. If there is agreement on this list, a ceasefire can be agreed with the armed groups that are not considered to be terrorists. This ceasefire could be introduced gradually, possibly accompanied by confidence-building measures. It is clear that the political process will require a great deal of effort from all the actors involved, including regional players such as Saudi Arabia and Iran, but for the first time in a long time there has been a prospect of a political solution to a conflict that has been going on for almost five years and has caused so much humanitarian suffering. In order to combat Daesh effectively, care must also be taken to cut off the funding available to the organization. A specific working group has been set up within the coalition. The approach pursued is reflected, on the one hand, in targeted air strikes and, on the other hand, in internal measures taken by the coalition countries, first and foremost in Syria's border countries, such as Turkey and the countries of the region, particularly the Gulf countries. The aim is to avoid the purchase of products from Daesh-held areas, but also to control financing, for example from private individuals, to the terrorist organization. While significant efforts have been made, work remains to be done. I would also point out that Daesh seems to be benefiting from substantial capital from various trades, from taxes levied on the populations of the conquered cities or from extortion of funds, on which our means of action are obviously more limited. We are working, for example, in other areas. I'm thinking about this traffic involving works of art. I am also thinking of the action taken by CTIF in Belgium in the context of all the steps that can be taken on more limited funding for foreign fighters. Belgium is very active at EU and UN level as well as at other international organisations dealing with the issue, such as the Council of Europe and the OSCE. We are also an active member of the global anti-Daesh coalition and at the same time we are committed to important bilateral contacts. Belgium is actively participating in UN coordination on counter-terrorism and the prevention of violent extremism. We are also watching the rigorous implementation of the relevant UN resolutions on this issue. Belgium also remains firmly committed to the anti-Daesh coalition. It takes on its responsibilities and contributes to this coalition in several aspects: military, humanitarian, internal and external measures to combat the phenomenon of foreign terror fighters. Recently, we mobilized the frigate Léopold 1er for a escort mission in a defensive approach to the Charles de Gaulle aircraft carrier. This mission was confirmed by the Government on the basis of Article 47(2) of the European Treaty. In terms of foreign terror fighters, the departures of young people from Belgium to combat zones have been reduced. However, there is no question for Belgium to relax its efforts, as the threat persists. With regard to the financing of Daesh, Belgium has taken a series of measures announced by the federal government in January 2015, including the one aimed at activating the mechanism provided for by law to identify persons involved in the financing of terrorism. A specific platform of the National Security Council has been established. The Ministers of Finance and Justice adopted the circular of 7 September, which allows the application of the Royal Decree of 28 December 2006 on the freezing of the assets of persons involved in terrorism. I suggest you question them for further details. As far as I am concerned, I am systematically addressing this issue with my interlocutors in the region. As regards the specific questions relating to the Egyptian situation, there is a broad international conviction, including in Russia, that the incident of the Russian aircraft leaving Sharm el Sheikh airport was a terrorist attack. Russia reported: "We can say with confidence that this was a terrorist attack." So sometimes the Russians speak in English. This is a positive evolution in our international society. However, Egypt continues to state that there is no certainty as to the cause of the event. The travel advice is prepared in consultation with our embassies on the ground, the services of the FPS Foreign Affairs, such as the crisis center, security and geographical service, my cabinet and the competent security services. Sometimes a distinction is made between countries where advice for the whole territory discourages movement and countries where movements are only discouraged for certain less-favoured areas, while travel in other parts of the country remains possible. It is not uncommon that some parts of a country are really dangerous, while in other regions a normal or increased vigilance is sufficient, as in Egypt, for example. This was already the case for Egypt a few years ago, in particular in the summer of 2013. Following the attack on the Russian passenger plane on 31 October 2015, it was decided to advise against all trips to Sharm el Sheikh at the moment, and to get the necessary insurance on the security situation at the airport. The situation on the ground is closely monitored and the travel advice will be updated as soon as there are sufficient guarantees that local authorities will take the necessary steps to ensure the safety of tourists, such as stricter checks at and around the airport and better protection of hotels and other tourist attractions. Some tour operators can tell their customers more quickly than our department. Sometimes they wait for our travel advice. In the case of Egypt, there were different categories of tour operators. Some came earlier with their reaction than we did, others later. We always follow the same procedure to adapt a travel advice or publish a new travel advice. I can also say that I have asked several fellow Members for more consultation on the publication of the travel advice. It is a task at national level. We are already in contact with different partners on this subject, but it is important to establish more contacts, for example with our neighbouring countries, to try to move in the same direction. Once again, it is a task of national level. I would add that this is an opinion. We give that advice on the basis of all possible elements at our disposal, with a view to guaranteeing the safety of our compatriots. However, it is an opinion, and it is always possible, despite a negative opinion, to travel to the country in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u49	Thank you, Minister. A lot has been said. It can be seen that since Russia's involvement in this issue, a lot of things have changed and are still likely to move strongly. As regards the sources of financing, you answered: targeted strikes, avoid purchases and traffic, etc. I also think that we need to put the package on the possible means of pressure we can have with the states that finance Daesh. It is no secret to anyone that some Arab emirates are behind this funding.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u50	Mr Minister, I would like to make one more point. If the tour operators cancel flights, that means they see real danger on the spot. The travel contract law is very clear to tour operators. The private sector will, of course, do everything in its power to earn something and will not really cancel a trip or flight until the very last minute. I would like to hear you say that there will be more consultation in the future. That's very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u51	Minister, I am glad that there is finally a prospect of a political solution. I would like to support your voluntarism and I hope that it will come true, because a final appeal must evolve in this direction. We note that Saudi Arabia has taken a number of initiatives. You know that some people in the Saudi Arabia Chamber want by definition to push into the opponent's camp. We will wait and see what evolution is. In this respect, I belong to a middle group that is critical of Saudi Arabia's attitude, but still hopes that the country will assume its responsibility in the fight against IS, for which Saudi Arabia should be naturally an opponent. We can hope that the initiative taken this week will lead to a strengthening of the international alliance against IS, as my fellow Members may say.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u52	Madam President, Minister, on 18 November 2015, the European Commission unveiled the outline of the review of the European Neighbourhood Policy, setting out the Union's renewed approach to its eastern and southern neighbours. Priority and emphasis were placed on the stabilization of the neighbourhood. The objective is also to promote common values and interests, while encouraging partners to strengthen their security cooperation. The emphasis is therefore also on the safety aspect. This review follows extensive consultations with Member States, partner countries, international organisations, social partners, civil society, economic actors and universities. Minister, are you aware of the numbers of participation in this public consultation? What do you think of the direction taken by the new Neighbourhood Policy? Do you have more information on the objectives of this new policy? How have the terrorism and security aspects been taken into account? As the emphasis has been placed on security, is the human rights aspect still paramount? What about the migration policy and Tunisia's position? Finally, has the budget allocated to the European Neighbourhood Policy been called into question? Do you have more information on the distribution of funding?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u53	Madam President, Mr Blanchart, as part of the review of the European Neighbourhood Policy, the European bodies have conducted wide-ranging consultations in which the partner countries of the European Union, international organisations, civil society and academia have participated. A total of more than 250 written contributions were received by the High Representative, Ms. Mogherini. On this basis, on 18 November, the European institutions produced a joint communication on the revision of the European Neighbourhood Policy within a political framework marked by the rise of conflicts, extremism and terrorism in our southern neighbourhood, with the consequences we know about migration and Russia's action in our eastern neighbourhood. The objective of the review of the neighbourhood policy is to develop more effective partnerships in a context of increased interdependence between the European Union and its neighbours in order to stabilise the countries of the neighbourhood, in particular through the strengthening of democracy and economic development. The European Union will, however, ensure that the principle of differentiation is applied. Each partner is free to determine the nature and intensity of his or her engagement with her. The European Union's Joint Communication refers to a number of key areas that will guide the revised European Neighbourhood Policy: greater flexibility in European aid instruments, including financial instruments, in order to better respond to the sometimes sudden changes in our neighbourhood. Economic development and the creation of open markets are key elements for the stabilization of neighbouring countries, where young people are too often deprived of opportunities. Security sector reform, conflict prevention, counter-terrorism and anti-radicalization policies are all areas in which the European Union will benefit from enhanced cooperation with its neighbours. The same applies to the fight against illegal migration and trafficking in human beings. Particular attention will also be paid to the energy security of the European Union and its neighbours. However, the budgets allocated to the neighbourhood policy will not change. Indeed, the financial framework of the European Union has been set for the period 2014-2020 and should not be changed. The challenge is therefore to work more effectively, hence the emphasis on greater flexibility in our instruments. This does not, of course, prevent us from taking specific decisions in our relations with one or the other partner. This neighbourhood file is a key file. In 2015, I made numerous visits both to our eastern neighbourhood and to our southern neighbourhood in order to better understand the situation on the ground. This was the case in Ukraine, Azerbaijan, Armenia or Jordan, for example. I will, of course, continue to go in that direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u54	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u55	Madam President, Minister, on 15 November, Ukraine returned to the ballot box for the second round of municipal elections. The town halls of some key cities were still in dispute, but the country, already not very passionate about the first round of 25 October, seems more concerned about the tragedy of 13 November and its inhabitants express their grief. However, according to some government officials, the tragedy in Paris is only the beginning of a campaign of attacks that should be aimed, among other things, at Kiev. President Petro Poroshenko himself referred to this threat. "A new danger has emerged," he said. "We have obtained information on possible links between Islamist terrorists and those arrested in Ukraine." In early November, one of the leaders of al-Nusra was arrested in Kiev. The Minister of the Interior goes in the same direction and fears terrorist acts in the coming days, involving explosives and firearms in the largest cities of Ukraine, such as Kiev, Kharkiv and Dnipropetrovsk. On the ground, the situation would be increasingly tense. Further violations of the ceasefire would be observed daily on the demarcation line between Ukrainian forces and so-called pro-Russian separatist troops. The destruction of an arsenal in the town of Svatove, halfway between Kharkiv and Luhansk, led to the evacuation of the inhabitants of the area. Minister, how do you view these statements: political recovery or real threat? What could be the impact of the Paris attacks on the tripartite pact between Russia, Syria and Iran? What is the current situation in Ukraine, where a definitive return of peace seems increasingly unlikely? Finally, what is the result of these municipal elections?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u56	On 23 November, I visited Ukraine again with my colleagues from Benelux. The aim was to renew our support for Ukraine as it moves into the background of the current situation with regard to the migration crisis and terrorism. In addition to reminding us of our support for the territorial integrity of Ukraine and for the full implementation of the Minsk agreements by all parties, we stressed the need to reform the judiciary and achieve results in the fight against corruption. We also pointed out the need to improve the human rights situation throughout Ukraine. With regard specifically to the Minsk agreements, I welcome in the first place the respect for the ceasefire since the beginning of September. Despite a renewed tension in November, it can be said that it is widely respected. The priority was military de-escalation. Today it is a reality. It is gratifying that tens of thousands of people see their lives returning to a situation closer to normal and that the number of victims is stopped every day. This is an opportunity for the OSCE to develop its demining activities, a very important operation to be undertaken in the region. The political process is also essential. You will recall that during its presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, Belgium stressed the role that the Venice Commission could play in support of this political process. He's very fragile and laborious. It is essential that separate local elections next February be held under acceptable conditions, that is, in accordance with Ukrainian law and under the supervision of the OSCE. Parallel progress was needed on decentralization, which was essential for the implementation of the Minsk agreements but also for the reform of governance in Ukraine and the special status of the Donbass. Let us not lose sight of the fact that the main objective is for Ukraine to regain control of its border with Russia. The country had also pledged to accede to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, which required a constitutional amendment. At the humanitarian level, the release of all prisoners is still pending. As you know, I have repeatedly called for the release of Nadia Savchenko and Oleg Senkov, as well as other Ukrainian prisoners detained in Russia. I am very concerned about the access of humanitarian NGOs to separatist regions. I was shocked by the expulsion of Médecins sans frontières and other humanitarian NGOs from the Louhansk region. This has serious consequences since MSF treated inter alia multi-resistant TB patients. As of 11 December, only two international humanitarian organizations, ICRC and PIN, had access to separatist regions. On the Ukrainian side, there are also restrictions on humanitarian aid, particularly with regard to freedom of movement near the contact line. I would like to add that we had the opportunity to take stock of the situation in Ukraine at the NATO ministerial meeting in which my Ukrainian counterpart attended one of the sessions. The solidarity of the organization was once again expressed through the few actions it can take on the spot. We returned to this situation during the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union in the context of the analysis of the Eastern Partnership. The debate will come back to the European Council, in particular on the extension of sanctions against Russia – probably for a period of six months – depending on the evolution, which includes some positive elements in the implementation of the Minsk agreements, although they are not yet fully implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u57	Minister, we're still on the same line. Of course, Kiev's fear is that Moscow will use the Syrian crisis to divert attention and that Westerners will lower their guard in terms of sanctions to better cooperate with Russia on other issues. In this area, everything can evolve. Germany's view is that it wants to reach out to the Russians and gradually lift the sanctions, on the grounds that it needs the Kremlin in other crises. It is important to remain attentive to the situation, while aiming for a process of de-escalation, as you have already suggested on several occasions, in our relations with Russia. Finally, we must not lose sight of the situation of Russian-speaking people living in the eastern region of Ukraine. You talked about it with a lot of oratory precautions. In any case, at the border, the context is still very difficult for Ukrainians of Russian expression.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u58	Minister, the capture of Mount Sinjar by ISIS troops in August 2014 marked the beginning of abuses and a real humanitarian disaster for the Yezidi populations. Between 700,000 and 1 million people were expected to leave the region in disaster. Mass executions filmed, beheading, systematic abduction of women and children, torture, rape, destruction and looting of villages, etc. These crimes have horrified the whole world and are still going on today. More than 4,000 persons continue to be held by the Islamic State, mainly women. Women and girls are sold on the markets. A fee schedule (120 euros for a girl aged 10 to 20) is drawn up according to age. Children are integrated into the army and trained to kill or are ransomed. In September 2014, at the Council of Ministers, the general government of Kurdistan opened a genocide office in Duhok, a city where victims take refuge to save time between crimes and their investigation. The women who come there pass medical examinations: STD test, pregnancy test, psychological examination. A full report is prepared or archived. Minister, how do you look at this situation that has been stagnating for more than a year? What information do you have about this attempted genocide? How many people are executed? How many women and girls would be detained, turned into slaves? What are their chances of getting away with it? How many could have escaped their executioners? What initiatives have been put in place to assist them by the various international bodies? The seriousness of the situation prompted the religious authorities to allow abortions. How many such interventions have been performed? Under what conditions and under what supervision? What is the status of the legal procedures initiated by the High Committee's investigation office for the identification of genocidal crimes? How many cases have been transmitted to the International Criminal Court? What is the position of the UN Security Council on this issue? Finally, what contribution does Belgium make?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u59	Although the advance of Daesh may have been to some extent contained and even pushed back to certain places in the Kurdish region of Iraq, the situation of the Yezidis is indeed dramatic. The loss of life is immense. Many Yezidis are still captives of Daesh and reduced to slavery. Tens of thousands of Yezidis are displaced and live in refugee camps. The villages of Sinjar are largely devastated and the threat of Daesh remains. The Yezidis, like other minorities, are receiving sustained attention from the international community. Many international organizations carry out extensive crime documentation and witness-gathering, including on trafficking in human beings, including on the basis of United Nations Security Council resolution 2139, which requires all parties to take all appropriate measures to protect civilians, including members of ethnic, religious and religious communities. The Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights issued a report to the Security Council last March at an open ministerial segment on victims of ethnic or religious violence in the Middle East. It appears from this report that the barbaric acts perpetrated by Daesh against the Yezidis could constitute a genuine genocide in the legal sense of the term. As you know, the crime of genocide as well as the crimes against humanity and war crimes that Daesh has also committed according to this report are not prescribed. The information thus collected is of paramount importance in support of future proceedings against the perpetrators of these acts, not only against the Yezidis but also against other minorities. The issue of the protection of minorities is addressed not only in the Security Council but also in other international fora. A conference on the protection of victims of ethnic and religious violence in the Middle East was organized in Paris in September and brought together 56 States and 11 regional and international organizations, including Belgium, to discuss ways to support members of those communities. At the Foreign Affairs Council on 14 December, the situation in Iraq, including the fate of the Yezidis, was discussed. In the conclusions adopted, special attention is called for for the Yezidis and Christians and the atrocities to which they are subjected. As far as Belgium is concerned, the situation regarding the Yezidis as well as that of the other minorities in Iraq but also in Syria is closely monitored by my services and by our diplomatic posts, especially those located in the region. I myself had the opportunity to address this topic on various occasions, particularly in June during my visit to Erbil. Support for the Yezidis, as well as for the other minorities in Iraq and more broadly for the Iraqi people as a whole, requires a determined struggle against Daesh. You know that Belgium is participating in this effort because it is an active member of the international coalition against the Islamic State. Longer-term protection must also be ensured by the full implementation of the principle of inclusiveness. Iraq must be a state in which every citizen feels at home and is treated equally. Belgium has repeatedly reiterated the importance of this principle of inclusiveness and has interlocutors at all levels. Victims must also be provided with immediate assistance. Belgium provides significant humanitarian aid to Iraq, mainly through the major agencies active in the country. This aid is obviously not intended exclusively for specific groups. This would contravene the principle of impartiality of humanitarian response. The Yezidis, however, have benefited like all the other most vulnerable people, regardless of their nationality, ethnicity or religion. Finally, Belgium is extremely committed to the fight against impunity. We have repeatedly reiterated the importance we attach in this regard to Iraq's ratification of the Rome Statute on the International Criminal Court, the agreement on its privileges and immunities and the referral by the United Nations Security Council of the situation in Syria to the International Criminal Court. With regard to the various figures that you have requested, I would ask that on the basis of what has been communicated by the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, perhaps you be given more details in writing, but, as you imagine, these figures are not always obvious to collate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u60	All right, thank you, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u61	Minister, on 30 August last marked the International Day of Victims of Enforced Disappearance. The perpetrators of these human rights violations spread terror. A disappearance has a doubly paralyzing effect: and for victims, often tortured and whose lives are constantly threatened, and for family members who ignore the fate of their loved ones. The sense of insecurity resulting from this practice also affects the community and society as a whole. Far from being a past practice reserved for military dictatorships, enforced disappearance continues to be used by some States, in particular as a means of political repression of opponents. An alarming number of acts committed in recent years by non-State actors, including extremist and terrorist armed groups, can be equated with enforced disappearances and constitute gross violations of human rights. The International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance was adopted by the Human Rights Council at its first session in June 2006. Since its establishment, the United Nations Working Group on Enforced or Involuntary Disappearances has transmitted 54,405 cases to 104 Governments. Minister, how many files have been dealt with by the UN working group since it was set up? What would be the number of missing persons? How many countries are affected by these disappearances? Which countries are most affected by such human rights violations? Is this ranking evolving? What is the outcome of the actions taken? To what extent is the fight against terrorism used by some States as an excuse for such acts? What is Belgium's support in this fight?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u62	Mr Blanchart, for Belgium, the fight against enforced disappearances must be seen in the context of the fight against impunity, one of the battle horses of Belgium's foreign policy. I regard the ratification of the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance as an important instrument in the fight against impunity. Belgium was also a member of the group of friends in the fight against enforced disappearances, which had played a key role in the negotiations on the Convention. Our country ratified the Convention in 2011 and supports the calls made by the Working Group on Enforced or Involuntary Disappearances, composed of five independent experts from third countries to ratify the Convention. For example, Belgium organized a seminar on the Convention in 2013. It was open to officials from third countries. Belgium shared its experiences on the process of ratification of the Convention and the preparation of the Belgian report on its implementation. It also called on third countries to ratify the Convention during the universal periodic review and bilateral contacts. We will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u63	It is obviously reassuring to remain at the forefront of the fight in this area. It is important to remember that it still needs to be conducted today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u64	Madam President, Minister, human rights organisations continue to criticize the Saudi government and its discrimination against women. The previous king, Abdallah, had nevertheless pledged to ease the strict segregation of the sexes, to facilitate women's access to the labour market and to broaden their political rights. However, there are still many prohibitions for women, sharia and tribal customs still govern an ultra-conservative society where women still do not have the right to drive a car, take a gym or go to a football game without their guardian. Saudi Arabia remains one of the countries where the gap between the employment rate of men and women is more than 23 per cent. There is neither equal pay nor equality for weekly working hours. Similarly, women can only work in a limited number of fields, while there is no written law prohibiting them from engaging in any occupation. Industrial cities whose men would be banned were to be established in 2013. The project was part of a series of government initiatives to encourage job creation for women in order to enable them to play a greater role in the country's development. Minister, what has been the record of the situation of women in Saudi Arabia so far? What do you think is reflected in this assessment of the government's willingness and real involvement in moving things forward? In 2012, a survey of women working in Saudi Arabia indicated that 60 per cent of women wanted to gain greater financial independence through their work and that women under the age of 25 wanted to use the skills acquired during their training. Has the government taken these elements into account since then? What progress has been made in this regard? What is the outcome of the project on industrial cities? How do you look at this type of approach now non-mixed? The right to vote in the elections of the Consultative Assembly was to be granted to women from 2015. Is it being implemented? What about women's political rights? Are any initiatives being taken to support democratic progress in that country? Which type and via which relay?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u65	Mr Blanchart, I share, of course, your concern about the situation of women's rights in Saudi Arabia, which is far below international expectations. There has been little progress in recent years: the appointment of 30 women to the Shora Consultative Council and, more recently, the participation of women in municipal elections with 19 women elected. The scholarship programme launched in 2005 by King Abdullah has already provided an opportunity for many Saudi women to study abroad. Women now have more opportunities to enter the labour market. I would like to point out that there are many women's and women's organizations in Saudi Arabia and that these women's organizations are not in favour of public statements from abroad. They fear that this type of action will be counterproductive and undermine the progress already made. Therefore, Belgium and the European Union prefer to act within the framework of a more discreet approach. As with all other countries, human rights are an integral part of our bilateral relations with Saudi Arabia. I can reassure you: Belgium addresses the subject of human rights, in particular women's rights, systematically in its bilateral contacts. Just as I have already had the opportunity to say that we are also dealing with individual issues in bilateral contacts with our Saudi colleagues. In conclusion, I recall that during the universal periodic review of Saudi Arabia in October 2013, Belgium addressed questions and recommendations to the Saudi Government with regard to human rights, particularly the situation of women. We will continue along this path now that we return as a member of the Human Rights Council in Geneva, starting on 1 January next.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u66	Thank you for your attention, Minister. As an anecdotal matter, it may be necessary to consider the communication techniques used by Saudi Arabian women candidates who wear burqa during election campaigns.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u67	Minister, after highly contested internal reforms, having made the illegal crossing of the border liable to imprisonment and erected a wall along the border, Budapest allowed the army to shoot rubber bullets at men, women and children trying to enter its territory, in disregard of all human dignity. Pretexting the threat of a Muslim invasion, Viktor Orban called for the defence of Western Christian identity and held a populist discourse that excluded the most shocking. The Commission, as guardian of European law, does, however, have the tools to enforce European principles and values – human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and human rights – to which every Member State must adhere and which every Member State must above all respect. In the face of the crisis, urgent action has become necessary. But the realpolitik practiced by some, suddenly, under pressure on the national level, cannot leave us without reaction. Minister, how do you view the actions of the Hungarian Prime Minister? How does Belgium stand in the face of possible recourse to Article 7 of the Treaty of the European Union or other mechanisms to defend European values? In your opinion, what would be the attitude to be taken and, where appropriate, the sanction to be applied against those who do not respect the basic principles on which the European Union is based, in particular Hungary? Finally, how are the positions of the different Member States at European level on this issue evolving?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u68	Mr Blanchart, the Member States have an obligation to control the Union's external borders, but they must do so in accordance with Union and international law. During my meeting with my Hungarian counterpart at the end of August, I had the opportunity to express my concern about how the influx of migrants to the border between Hungary and Serbia was being managed. Nor has the European Commission remained inactive on this issue. It sent a letter last October to the Hungarian authorities seeking clarification of its concerns about Hungary's management of its asylum and immigration policies and the control of its borders. The Hungarian authorities' response is currently under consideration. I obviously support this initiative, which could lead to an infringement procedure. The Commission is in its role as guardian of the Treaties, which must ensure compliance with the acquis communautaire. Article 7 of the Treaty of the European Union gives an opportunity to take action against a Member State in the event of a serious and persistent violation of the values of the Union. This violation must be found unanimously less the State concerned. Its possible consequences may consist in the suspension of the right to vote and are, however, particularly severe. It can only be an instrument of last resort. At this stage, there is no debate in the Council of the European Union on a possible use of this mechanism, but, following an intervention that I had the opportunity to make a few years ago in the General Affairs Council, on the situation of some constitutional changes in Hungary, we agreed to discuss with the Commission the possibility of implementing less cumbersome mechanisms to react to such situations. The Commission has come back to this issue in a recent Council debate. I simply regretted that this debate, proposed by the Luxembourg Presidency, in the person of Jean Asselborn, and by the Vice-President of the Commission, Frans Timmermans, consisted only in asking for the best practices of each State around the table concerning the human rights situation. It's an interesting school exercise, but it wasn't the one I was expecting. I hope that in all the political groups we can draw the attention of the main European leaders to a debate on mechanisms that are somewhat more binding than an exchange of information on best practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u69	We obviously fully agree on this because the situation in the country is not likely to change as Orban announced his willingness to run for a third term in 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u70	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 67, by Mr De Vriendt 6847 of myself have been converted into written questions. Questions Nos 6787 and 7203 by Mr Crusnière were discussed during the exchange of views on Burundi. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Claerhout's 6873 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u71	Madam President, Minister, since 1967, more than 850,000 Palestinians (20 per cent of the total population and 40 per cent of the male population) have, at some point in their lives, been imprisoned by the Israeli authorities. Palestinian prisoners were most often detained in Israel itself and their trial was conducted in an emergency military court, which in 99 per cent of cases resulted in a conviction and prison sentence. Another procedure, administrative detention, allows the Israeli army to detain a person for a period of up to 6 months, renewable indefinitely, without charge or trial. The administrative detainee is usually imprisoned on the basis of information considered "secret" by the army and which will not be accessible to the detainee or even to his lawyer. For decades, thousands of Palestinians have been imprisoned as "administrative detainees" without any of them being informed of the reason for his imprisonment. As of 19 October, the date of submission of my question, 454 Palestinians were imprisoned under this statute, 9 of whom are parliamentarians. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you about this point. How do you look at this situation? Does Belgium intend to stand up against this practice, as it has done for military courts that try civilians in Egypt and Tunisia? What is Belgium's position on administrative detention as such? What position do you take in your discussions with the Israeli authorities? Finally, I come back to the case of Itiraf Rimawi, who, as a reminder, was arrested on 15 September 2014 and since then is still in administrative detention. Mr Rimawi works for an NGO partner of the Belgian NGO Socialist Solidarity. His detention was extended for another four months, on 8 October 2015, without any reason. I have already asked you about this three times, and each time you told me that you would seek more information about this arrest. Did you get that information? If so, what are they?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u72	Mrs Grovonius, our position on administrative detentions or on the extension of administrative detentions without any need for justification is clear: this measure must remain of an exceptional nature, for a limited period of time and taking into account various guarantees, such as respect for the rights of the detainee's defence and the right to a fair trial within a reasonable period of time. Belgium has regular bilateral contacts with Israel, including through our embassy in Tel Aviv and with the Israeli embassy in Brussels. This issue is one of the themes that we systematically address in these bilateral meetings, but also through the European Union. In the context of the dialogue with Israel on human rights, the issue of the rights of detained persons is also regularly addressed. We take every opportunity to remind the Israeli authorities that detentions must meet the obligations of international human rights treaties. We will continue to defend this position. Our Consulate General in Jerusalem is in regular contact with Bisan, the organisation of which Mr Rimawi is President, as well as with other European partners who are concerned about the fate of Mr Rimawi. The extension of detention runs until January 2016. Administrative detention decisions are often made on the basis of confidential information and unfortunately communicated without any other form of justification. The repeated renewal of this detention without explanation or justification concerns us and we will continue to follow this case for which, for the time being, we have not achieved any other result than to learn the extension until January 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u73	Minister, thank you for your answer. I can of course only encourage you to continue what you are developing during your bilateral but also European meetings, since they seem to me, in any case from what I have heard, to go in the right direction. Nevertheless, it also seems that all this remains very insufficient in view of the impunity which the Israeli Government seems to enjoy, since despite these interventions, which are rather diplomatic, unfortunately the situation of these people does not change or improve very much. I invite you, perhaps, to consider other forms of measures that would put an end to this impunity, which leads to situations as serious as that of Mr. Rimawi.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, question No. Mrs Matz has converted 6883 into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 6984 of myself has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u75	Minister, in the last parliamentary term, former federal MP Zoé Genot asked you a very large number of questions about the catastrophic situation in which a Belgian-Moroccan citizen is currently in detention in Morocco. The bad news for you is that I will take over Mrs. Genot's succession in this matter. Ali Aarrass was sentenced four years ago for "membership of a group intending to commit terrorist attacks", on the basis of confessions obtained under torture, according to Amnesty International, which has made him one of its leading figures for its current campaigns. You stated at that time that Belgium cannot intervene in respect of consular assistance in so far as the person concerned has Belgian and Moroccan dual nationality and that it is therefore the Moroccan authorities who are in charge of the case, by virtue of a custom which you wished to see respected. You also invoked the 1930 Hague Convention not to intervene. Under the Convention, a State must refrain from any intervention in favour of one of its nationals in difficulty in a country of which it is also a national. However, this Convention is not applicable in relations between Morocco and Belgium, as Morocco is not a party to this Convention. In addition, in 2013, following the arrest of another Moroccan national, Yuba Zalen, a Moroccan-Dutch activist of the Berber cause, the Dutch Parliament exerted significant pressure to obtain his release and the Dutch government acted accordingly. It is therefore possible for the Belgian State to exert maximum diplomatic pressure on Morocco in order to free our fellow citizen. In view of this situation, in 2014 he brought a lawsuit against the Belgian State: he won it both in first instance and on appeal. The court held that the nationality to be taken into account in the present case was indeed Belgian nationality since Ali Aarrass had never lived in Morocco for a long time. Belgium provided itself with cassation. On October 6, you split a missive on this case at the address of your Moroccan counterpart. This letter is very unconvincing, as if it were guided by the judicial decision alone and not by the firm intention to exert pressure on the Moroccan authorities. Ali Aarrass has in the meantime started a hunger strike. Minister, can you clarify the answer received from your Moroccan colleague? Are you finally going to offer the appropriate consular assistance to this tortured Belgian national? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u76	Minister, in March 2011, my colleague Özlem Özen asked your predecessor about the issue of Belgian extraditions to countries where respect for human rights is not always guaranteed. This issue remains very topical today, given the latest information provided to us by Amnesty International on the conditions of detention of Belgo-Moroccoan extradited to Morocco by the Spanish authorities, Ali Aarrass. Minister, what follow-up has been given by our country to these "revelations" on Ali Aarrass's conditions of detention? More broadly, what exactly is Belgium's duty to guarantee to its nationals convicted or extradited to another country that they will be detained there under the same conditions as on our own soil? What is your position on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u77	Minister, you have already made many public statements about this matter. We're trying to track your actual position. Sometimes you say you do your best and sometimes you say you can't do anything. What is your real position? Do you really intend to do anything for this national? There is this letter that colleague Hellings quoted, a letter addressed to Ali Aarrass' brother, in which, finally, the message that you give to the Moroccan authorities is "Go ahead, guys, we don't support you". On the other hand, you use dual nationality to justify your impotence. Should bi-nationals be considered second-class citizens? In this case, one wonders why Belgium refused to intervene when Ali Aarrass was in Spain. We also wonder why the bi-nationals of Morocco-Dutch, Maroco-French and Maroco-Germans receive visits from the consulate, money, books, in short, assistance that Ali Aarrass does not receive. Sometimes you take refuge behind the terrorism charge. I think it is useful to remind you that Judge Garzon, who is not just anyone, has conducted three years of investigations, listening, searches and so on to get to a non-trial. Does it not count or do you have other elements? In that case, it would be interesting to communicate them to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, it is important to note that Mr Ali Aarrass was extradited, not by Belgium but by Spain to Morocco. I would also remind you that I took up my duties on 6 December 2011 as Minister of Foreign Affairs and that the person concerned was already incarcerated in Morocco at that time and that the position of Belgium had therefore been adopted under the previous government without any change and it was continued under the current government. In order to be able to visit any prisoner, an embassy must always request permission to visit the authorities of the country in which the person is detained. This request has been made several times since 2012, that is, shortly after I took office as Minister of Foreign Affairs. Moreover, contrary to what I regularly hear, the Belgian State has, of course, submitted to the obligation imposed by the Court of Appeal's judgment of 9 September 2014, to request Morocco to allow the Embassy to visit Mr Aarrass weekly and to talk with him in prison. Several diplomatic notes have been sent to the Moroccan authorities in this regard. So far, the Moroccan authorities have not granted this possibility of consular assistance requested by our embassy on several occasions. In accordance with the judgment of the Court of Appeal, we will continue to reiterate our efforts with Morocco. However, some international practices concerning consular protection for stateless persons do not lead to a positive Moroccan response. To answer the last question asked to me, there is no distinction between persons with a nationality or two nationalities. I would remind you that Mr Aarrass is a Belgian-Moroccan and that he is currently in Morocco. The Moroccan authorities therefore regard him above all as a Moroccan citizen. That's the difference. It's exactly like we're dealing with a Belgo-American arrested and detained in the United States. The American authorities would first consider him an American. We will continue our efforts to obtain a positive response from the Moroccan side. On the humanitarian side, I have asked the Moroccan authorities for information about the conditions under which Mr. Ali Aarrass was imprisoned. On the occasion of his hunger strike, I recently wrote to my Moroccan counterpart about his state of health and called him about it. Finally, at my initiative, we have taken a step forward so that the National Human Rights Council can visit Mr. Ali Aarrass to see his state of health. The Moroccan authorities immediately agreed and the visit took place. Following the visit, Mr. Ali Aarrass was hospitalized and received medical care. Meanwhile, he went back to prison. He has stopped his hunger strike since 4 November 2015. Apart from the decent treatment that every citizen must receive by virtue of respect for international conventions and on which Belgium is not concerned, we must be careful on the substance, particularly in the current context. Moreover, it is not my task to rule on the penalties imposed by the foreign courts, and therefore, as much as we will continue our humanitarian and consular efforts, I draw attention to the necessary caution when I am asked to arrange for the release of someone who is incarcerated after a conviction by foreign courts, particularly in the light of the criminalizations adopted in the current context.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u79	Minister, I would remind you that in this case, according to a recognized international body, Amnesty International, these are confessions probably obtained under torture. I understand that this is a case of terrorism, but the issue of terrorism is sometimes used by some States to fight political opponents. Here, in this case, no matter whether a Moroccan court ruled on the fate of Mr. Ali Aarrass, it would appear that the confessions were obtained under torture for these acts. This requires double verification. You know that the situation of Belgian Moroccans is specific since a Belgian-Moroccan citizen born in Belgium cannot give up his or her Moroccan nationality. Morocco does not allow the deprivation of nationality and, therefore, these Belgian-Moroccan citizens are dual nationals against their will. Today, I confirm that Mr Aarrass is Belgian. The court called you back. And it is as a Belgian citizen that he must be defended. Belgium must do its utmost to defend this Belgian citizen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u80	Many Belgo-Moroccoans would like to be just Belgian and not keep this dual nationality. This is indeed not the responsibility of Belgium. What is quite damaging as we maintain – it seems to me – good relations with this country of which we are very close, is that all these requests for weekly visits have not been the subject – if I understood you correctly – of the positive views of the Moroccan authorities. I therefore ask you to continue to apply for these permissions to visit for the national in question. Having said that, I welcome the fact that the National Human Rights Council has been able to enter the prison, even if international conventions imposed it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u81	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u82	Wasn't it mandatory? Oh, good. I therefore propose to work with international organisations and support them so that they can enter the prison, since the Moroccan government seems to be more flexible towards them than towards Belgian diplomats, which surprises me a little. In view of the relations we have, this fact must be denounced. Of course, I don't want to get into the bottom of the case. It is not for us to rule on the merits of the case, but for the competent courts. However, there are still opportunities. Thus, one could very well consider repatriating him to serve his sentence in a Belgian prison where his prison conditions would be totally different from Morocco. I ask you, in any case, to continue your diplomatic work with the Moroccan authorities in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u83	Madam President, Minister, I do not know why you insist on repeating that he is considered a Moroccan citizen by Morocco! The question is not what Morocco is doing, but what Belgium is doing. As my colleague, Mr Hellings, has said, our country must consider this gentleman to be a de facto Belgian since he has always lived in Belgium. In other words, he never lived in Morocco. It is considered Moroccan by Morocco because the practices of that country make it possible to do so. However, Belgium should in no way take this kind of consideration into account. You say you have to be careful on the merits. This isn't the first time you've said it. I would still like to recall that this man's confession was obtained under torture. The practice of Guantanamo's style should not be justified. I would remind you that in Spain there was a dismissal. Finally, I wonder if there are any hidden interests that Ali Aarrass is paying for. In any case, you have not managed to remove these doubts from us today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u84	Madam President, Minister, in India, homosexuality was decriminalized in 2009 by the High Court of New Delhi, before being "recriminalized" in 2013 by a technical decision of the Supreme Court. Recently, the Indian Minister of Finance called on the Supreme Court to delete this article in order to decriminalize homosexuality. However, it has not taken legislative initiatives and refers to the judiciary. Minister, how do you look at this issue in India? Does our embassy on the spot note any developments on this subject in Indian society? Has the key issue of the decriminalization of homosexuality been addressed in our bilateral relations with that country, or even within the United Nations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u85	Mr Blanchart, I share your concern about the situation of LGBTI people in India, in particular with regard to the reintroduction of article 377 of the Indian Penal Code, the application of which, as you recalled, had been suspended by the Delhi High Court decision in 2009, following a judgement of the Supreme Court in December 2013. This article criminalizing male homosexuality dates back to the British colonial era. My services in Brussels and our local embassies and consulates are closely following the situation and are committed to this issue with our Indian partners and interlocutors. As you know, Belgian policy in this area fits perfectly with European policy, translated into the LGBTI guidelines adopted in June 2013 and to which my services have actively contributed. In this context, our diplomats participate in seminars and other events organized on the spot, in cooperation with local civil society, in order to better assess the difficulties and how we can respond to them in the best way. From these meetings, it is up to us that violence, including police, against LGBTI people has increased in India since the December 2013 ruling and that society remains very conservative on this issue. Belgium's position on discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity is clear and is known to you. Moreover, this is one of the priorities of the human rights pillar of our foreign policies. In line with our position, we regret the negative evolution of respect for the rights of LGBTI people in India, as described, and will continue to address this issue with our Indian interlocutors at all levels, as we do elsewhere when the law discriminates against LGBTI people. We will also continue our work in this area through the various international forums concerned, including the Human Rights Council in Geneva, where Belgium is part of the Core group Sexual orientation and gender identity and lobbies the countries and bodies concerned. As I said earlier, our return to the Human Rights Council will probably allow us to be even more active in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u86	Minister, my only question was to encourage you to remain attentive to this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u87	Minister, according to recent leaks of confidential documents via WikiLeaks, the negotiators of the International Agreement on Services, or TiSA, would consider restricting the effects of possible ambitious climate policies currently under negotiation under COP21. My question was a few days ago. In the meantime, we know that this important meeting has led to an extremely ambitious agreement on climate, and that is a welcome one. According to the Public Services International (PSI) trade union federation, the text currently under negotiation would enshrine the principle of "technological neutrality" in energy matters. Thus, national regulators, therefore, States, would be deprived of the right to distinguish solar from nuclear, wind, coal or geothermal or hydraulic fracturing. Basically, all energy is worth it. But they're not worth it. In concrete terms, a country rich in hydrocarbons can now restrict foreign oil companies' access to its energy reserves, in the name of its political will to attract foreign or endogenous investment and renewable energy technologies. The TiSA, once approved, could in the future prevent the country from making this choice in the name of this so-called energy neutrality. De facto, the current state of the TiSA chapter on energy would thus encourage the exploitation of fossil and fissile energies, while the Paris climate agreement aims at exactly the opposite objective. Minister, can you clarify to me whether, at the present stage of the negotiations, the principle of technological neutrality is already part of the energy chapter of the TiSA as it has been consolidated so far? Could you tell me what positions Belgium and the European Union have defended or are still defending on this subject? Since the objectives of technological neutrality and the fight against climate change are totally contradictory, what negotiations - COP21 or TiSA - will Belgium withdraw from?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u88	Mr Hellings, the agreement on trade in services, better known under its English acronym TiSA, and COP21 are not contradictory to me. The TiSA contains a number of regulatory chapters in which strict rules are defined for a wide range of sectors. In this context, Iceland and Norway proposed a text on energy services aimed at establishing transparent and objective rules for the growing energy services market. This proposal contains, among other things, the principle of technological neutrality to which you refer. Due to its broad scope, this proposal has so far received little support from other participants. It is therefore currently difficult to know whether this proposal will remain on the negotiating table. The European Union has expressed its interest in achieving stricter regulation of the energy services market. Under the TiSA, States will preserve the right to decide which geographical areas they wish to open for the exploration, development and exploitation of energy resources. The agreement will not affect the right of States to regulate environmental, security and resource management aspects. I would also like to draw your attention to the basic text of the TiSA, on which the participants have already reached an agreement. This text incorporates the provisions of the General Agreement on Trade in Services, the GATS, as well as the general exceptions to Article 14 of the GATS. With this article, States retain the right to take the necessary measures to achieve public policy objectives, such as the protection of life or the health of humans, animals and plants. An agreement on greater liberalisation of trade in services and an agreement on combating climate change are therefore not contradictory. Better regulation of energy services can, on the contrary, contribute to international efforts to achieve more efficient use of energy. Canada has put a proposal on environmental services in TiSA on the table. The scope of this proposal, which is strongly supported by the European Union, also includes services for the protection of the environment. As regards the European and Belgian position, I would point out that the European Union, despite its interest in better regulation, has repeatedly stressed the sensitivity of the energy sector. That is why the European Union provides for a reservation in all its trade agreements on the transmission of gas and electricity and the transport of oil and gas. Belgium also traditionally has four reserves linked to the energy sector, in particular nuclear energy, electricity generation, energy transmission and gas storage, and the manufacture of refined petroleum products from nuclear energy, electricity, gas and hot water. The European Union has also made some suggestions to change the scope of the proposal, including the exclusion of nuclear energy services and the inclusion of services that contribute to more efficient use of energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u89	Minister, I am very pleased that Belgium continues to defend hot water!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u90	Hot water, you don't make it so often.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u91	Maybe it could happen someday.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u92	With warming, you never know.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u93	However, I am pleased to hear you say that the proposal for technological neutrality does not receive any support, in particular from the European Union or Belgium. You say that for you the commercial treaties currently under negotiation, namely CETA, TTIP and TiSA, are not contradictory. I don't share your point of view. We are therefore in political disagreement on this point. Indeed, in my view, the development of international trade will de facto contribute to the increase in greenhouse gas emissions, in particular CO2 due to the increase in air and maritime transport. Indeed, the objective of these treaties is to promote world trade, especially between the two shores of the Atlantic. I would add that there is a very important energy dimension to be taken into account in CETA and TTIP. I'm talking about American shale gas and gas and oil from the bituminous sands in Canada. And we know that if transactions increase between these two continents, it is extremely negative amounts of energy in terms of CO2 emissions and subsoil pollution that will cross the Atlantic in the future. Unfortunately, Norway visibly proposes this technological neutrality when it has taken a very interesting decision in relation to its sovereign wealth fund. This decision is intended to never again invest a Norwegian kroner in fossil fuels. It should be able to defend this same type of provision at the international level rather than that technological neutrality which would be harmful in terms of CO2 emissions and gaseous pollutants.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u94	Minister, recently mentioned in the international press, a particular prison in Nigeria is the author of a new experience of trying to deradicalize members of the Islamist group Boko Haram during their incarceration. The idea of this programme is to fight and raise awareness among men against violent extremism. Sports, education, vocational training, citizenship, etc. The aim is to avoid their identity retreat and to prepare them for their reintegration into a society with more humanistic values. The objective of this trial is also to reduce the risk of recruitment of new members during incarceration. Do you have more information about this deradicalization program? Does the SPF identify initiatives taken by different countries in this area, with a view to drawing any conclusions or possibly supporting them in the context of an exchange of practices on this thorny problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u95	Mr President, this project is one of the projects financed by the European Union to the tune of approximately EUR 7.7 million. It is also supported by the United Kingdom. It was set up in 2014 with the aim of making it one of the key elements in the fight against Boko Haram in the long term. The aim is, in part, to focus on the education of Nigerian youth on the dangers of radicalization and to try to rehabilitate the hundreds of members of Boko Haram already imprisoned by confronting them with the radical ideas of the imams, by providing sports infrastructure or by developing their computer or art skills. Until October 2015, the project was set up and led by Dr.Fatima Akilu, a recognized expert, a member of the Office of the National Security Council and supported by the European Union and the United Kingdom. However, the appointment of a new national security adviser by Nigeria's new president, Muhammadu Buhari, led with her to the complete renewal of his team and the departure of Dr.Akilu, who was replaced by a military member. The decision to entrust the management of the programme to a member of civil society rather than a member of the military was intended to gain the confidence of Boko Haram members more easily. It will therefore be necessary in the future to follow closely the developments of this programme and to prevent such a rather promising project from finally being abandoned in favour of only repressive means to fight against Boko Haram. With regard to your second question, the FPS Foreign Affairs is in regular contact with the Internal FPS, which is responsible for coordinating this issue on issues related to deradicalization. Useful information on the interesting experiences brought to our attention is provided to them. Organizations sharing best practices exist. For example, the Hedayah centre, based in the United Arab Emirates and financed by the European Commission, has this objective. I had the opportunity to visit him at this year's Princely Mission and we will continue to identify best practices to learn from them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u96	Minister, thank you. I did not know that this initiative came from the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u97	Minister, in a report released on 8 December, Amnesty International shows that Belgian weapons, produced by FN Herstal, are now in the hands of Daesh. Because of the serious instability in this region of the world and the numerous reversals of alliances, it is impossible to monitor the flow of arms there. For my group, it is therefore necessary to suspend any delivery of arms, particularly in Saudi Arabia and Qatar. Saudi Arabia does not directly support Daesh, but has been able to deliver arms to certain rebel groups in Syria. These weapons were then in Daesh's hands, as reported in a GRIP report. Qatar delivered Belgian weapons to Libya, which were subsequently sent back to Iraq and Syria, according to Amnesty's report. It is a fact that Wallonia, via the FN, which has an entirely public capital, exports a quarter of the weapons it produces to Saudi Arabia. However, the common position of the European Union, transposed into Belgian law and Walloon law, requires the Regions not to grant an export licence if there is a risk that these weapons will be used in order to violate human rights or endanger the stability of the region. This is clearly the case with regard to the situation in Saudi Arabia, for Daesh in Iraq and Syria, but also in Yemen. This jurisdiction is entirely regional, under the jurisdiction of the Walloon Minister-President. However, article 7 of a 2007 cooperation agreement between the Federal and the Regions on arms exports allows you to convene a meeting between the SPF Foreign Affairs and the Walloon Region to discuss the gap between the region's trade policy and Belgian political, strategic and military interests in the Syrian and Iraqi dossier. I recall that we have a frigate currently active in the Mediterranean that accompanies the carrier Charles de Gaulle in Iraq against Daesh. Do you intend to activate this famous clause of Article 7? Can you tell me what Belgium's position on the arms embargo to Syria is at European and international level? Has this position changed in recent months?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u98	Mr. Hellings, at the request of a region, my department held a consultation on Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States at the request of a region in April, in the presence of the geographical Directorate concerned, the Non-Proliferation and Disarmament Directorate and the Regions. My department systematically makes information about this area available to them. The additional information provided by the FPS Foreign Affairs clearly does not involve any responsibility on the part of the federal government for the grant or refusal of a licence. I have also very recently sent a letter to the ministers-presidents of the three regions of the country confirming my position in response to oral questions to the House on Belgium's relations with Saudi Arabia in this area. I have also indicated to them that we are prepared to clarify the information that we systematically transmit to them, particularly in terms of human rights. Of course, at the Interdepartmental Conference on Foreign Policy, we can come back to this situation at any time. I do not think it would be useful to convene a particular meeting. All information shall be provided. Moreover, my department's point of view is very clear, as I recently recalled in plenary. More specifically, internal coordination in terms of arms exports is also taking place with a view to preparing the meetings of the Group on Conventional Arms Exports (COARM), a working group of the Council of the European Union, which take place approximately nine times a year. In accordance with the Cooperation Agreement of 7 July 2007, Article 12, § 3, each decision on a weapon is preceded by a Belgian internal coordination during which the representatives of the SPF Foreign Affairs and the Regions agree on the positions Belgium will take at the COARM. Within this working group, Member States shall address, inter alia, their export policy towards the countries of destination. In 2015, Belgium opened twice to COARM a discussion on Saudi Arabia as a destination country. The proceedings are confidential. No EU Member State delivers arms to the Syrian regime. Some of them have chosen to provide them to certain Syrian opposition groups in Syria and Iraq. Belgium does not deliver weapons to them. There is no consensus in the UN Security Council on an arms embargo against Syria. Russia opposes this because it supplies weapons in massive quantities to the regime of Bashar al-Assad. I would also like to mention in this context a recent Amnesty International report on the armament of Daesh, which refers to results published by a panel of United Nations experts, which monitors compliance with the arms embargo imposed by the United Nations Security Council against Libya. My department responds to every request for United Nations tracing of weapons suspected of Belgian origin or provenance, as soon as possible. This information is also systematically shared with the Region concerned. The fact that these reports refer to weapons manufactured in Belgium that have been found in conflict zones following diversions is the result of the transparency that our country, as well as the Regions and industry, are demonstrating in terms of traceability. It is regrettable that this sincere commitment to the fight against the proliferation and diversion of small arms and light weapons in conflict draws more negative attention to Belgium than to other countries, which totally or partially refuse to play the map of transparency. I would like to stress this point. For the rest, I agree with your conclusion on the decision on the export of arms. For the most part, you mentioned the Walloon Region, but the other Regions export at least dual-use equipment. I have recalled this at previous meetings. You are right to point out that this decision is ultimately the responsibility of the Walloon government, and more particularly of its Minister-President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u99	Thank you for your answer, Minister. There is no doubt that there is a new element, namely these two reports which show very clearly, not only that there are Belgian weapons on the ground of operations in Iraq and in particular in Syria, but also the path followed by these weapons, which prompts us to be very cautious. I would like to recall that, on your department's website, the link that refers to the situation in Saudi Arabia does not mention the current state of the human rights situation in that country. Saudi Arabia's multiple human rights violations are not reported. It would be useful to indicate this to Belgian nationals who would consider an on-the-spot visit, including for companies. Could I have a copy of the letters you sent to the Minister-President, if I write to your office? [[Sentiment]] I understand that you have had many opportunities to make the Regions understand the gap between the policy that you are pursuing at diplomatic level and that your colleague Vandeput is leading at military level and the exports of Walloon weapons to a region in crisis. I invite you to remain vigilant. Finally, let me remind you that Sweden has decided to stop any military collaboration. We do not have a military treaty uniting Belgium or Luxembourg with Saudi Arabia. But our values should not be lost in these multiple meetings of the COARM in the name of the fact that we are not sufficiently vigilant.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u100	Minister, following my previous statement on ethical criteria in the selection of the host countries of the World Cup, I would like to return to you on the situation of workers in Qatar. In fact, recently, Amnesty International has again denounced the exploitation of workers, mainly migrants, as part of the preparations for the Qatar World Cup, as the authorities have not yet implemented significant labour law reforms. FIFA had declared itself unresponsible, however, the reality is that it is heavily involved in this frightening situation. As the next President's election approaches, in February FIFA must make concrete commitments, such as the establishment of a system of due diligence to prevent and identify any human rights violations, which has not yet been done. Since our previous discussions on Qatar, how has the human rights situation on the construction sites changed? What feedback did you have from our embassy on this? Can you provide more information on FIFA's efforts in collaboration with the Qatari authorities and what about its commitment to ensure a World Cup that is not played on a humane bottom? Has our diplomacy taken any initiatives in this direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u101	On 27 October, the Emir of the Quatar signed a law reforming the kafala system. The main advances relate to the obligation to pay salaries by bank transfer, the prohibition on confiscating passports and the possibility for an employee to change employer, even if the procedure remains cumbersome. This reform was expected for more than a year and was announced following the growing pressure from the international community for the 2022 World Cup. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Belgium is actively involved in these human rights initiatives. This was particularly the case during the universal periodic review of Qatar at the Human Rights Council in 2014, when Belgium made two recommendations on working conditions in Qatar. I also took the opportunity of my political meetings to discuss these issues. While we should welcome this reform decided by the Qatari authorities, it is still too early to judge the exact scope of the new provisions. The whole will also depend on the implementation of the measures themselves. FIFA imposes more stringent standards for World Cup projects than legal working conditions in Qatar. These more stringent conditions are accompanied by regular controls, but FIFA could indeed go further and do more. With the organisation of the World Cup, it has an important leverage on the local authorities. I can assure you that Belgium will continue to advocate for human rights in the various international fora and in its bilateral contacts, hoping that all our partners, including in sport, will act in the same way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u102	I have no doubt that you will continue to advocate for human rights. Above all, it will be necessary to be able to assess the scope and implementation of the measures as announced by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u103	Minister, I come back to you with a very dear subject: the recognition of the Palestinian State. The representatives of the quartet for the Tunisian national dialogue, who recently received the Nobel Peace Prize, took the opportunity to call for the establishment of a Palestinian State. That would, in their view, be a way of combating terrorism by granting the Palestinian people the right to self-determination on their territory and the possibility of building their independent State. I would like to take this opportunity to ask you whether this declaration could influence the "time" to which you condition the recognition of Palestine by our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u104	Mrs Grovonius, you know the government's position on the recognition of the Palestinian State. Different elements must be taken into account in order to be able to make this recognition. The resolution to which we refer also asks us to take into account such elements as the positive impact that such recognition could have in supporting or reviving an inclusive political process of negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians; the evolution of the dialogue between the Member States of the European Union and the efforts of the European Union to support the peace process with a view to a definitive and comprehensive solution respecting the legitimate aspirations of the two peoples for peace, security and prosperity; or the existence of a Palestinian Government of full exercise with authority over the entire Palestinian territory. Unfortunately, the evolution of recent months is not positive and the conditions, which were not present when this question was asked to me in March 2015, are also not positive today. That's not why we're giving up. In the current unfavourable context, Belgium remains committed to a policy aimed at preserving the possibility of a bi-State solution. I would remind you that Belgium has worked and is still working towards greater coherence in European policy aimed at promoting the Middle East peace process. The recent decision concerning the labelling of products from the colonies is a step forward in calling for the finally application of existing arrangements in European law on this subject. The main objective of our policy is and remains the bi-State solution and the creation of an independent, sovereign, democratic and secure Palestinian State on the side of the Israeli State whose security must also be ensured. I remain ready to engage with all the parties concerned in order to achieve this objective. I already know that we will make an appointment to take stock of this matter in some time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u105	Thank you, Minister, and see you soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u106	Madam Chair, Minister, for the first time, I will get an answer to my question two days after I have introduced it. It's party day! Two days ago, on 14 December, the European Union Tribunal cancelled a trade agreement between the European Union and Morocco since 2012. The European Court's decision is based on the failure to take into account, at the conclusion of this Treaty, its impact on respect for the fundamental rights of the people of Western Sahara. A passage from the judgment in question has the potential to make a case in another case – Mrs Grovonius has just referred to it – that of labelling and possibly prohibiting the sale in Europe of products from Israeli settlements in Palestine: "If the Union permits the export to its Member States of products from that other country, which have been manufactured or obtained under conditions which do not respect the fundamental rights of the population of the territory from which they originate, it may indirectly encourage or benefit from such violations." Like Western Sahara, a substantial part of Palestine is, in fact, administered by a third State, while not included in the internationally recognized borders of that third State. This historic decision makes a very direct link between trade with these countries and an encouragement to maintain the human rights violations committed in the territories they control. Mr Minister, how will Belgium take into account this judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in its trade relations with Morocco specifically because this judgment looks at trade relations between the European Union and Morocco in agricultural matters? The European Union and Belgium are committed to a policy of labelling products from Israeli settlements in Palestine. Does this judgment of the Court of First Instance of the European Union prompt you to turn now to another policy, that of the outright prohibition of the import of these products, in application of the obligation of "non-aid" to maintain the illegal situation which emerges from the judgment in question concerning Western Sahara? Finally, does the FPS of Foreign Affairs envisage reviewing all trade agreements with Israel and Morocco, both multilaterally and bilaterally, in order to verify that none of the products "made or obtained under conditions that do not respect the fundamental rights of the people of the territory from which they originate" is potentially concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, your question therefore relates to the judgment delivered by the Court of Justice of the European Union on 10 December last concerning the decision of the Council of the European Union on the agricultural agreement between the European Union and Morocco. This judgment calls into question the application in the territory of Western Sahara of Council Decision 2012/497/EU of 8 March 2012 concerning the conclusion of the Agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the European Union and the Kingdom of Morocco. Belgium took note of the judgment delivered by the Court of Justice of the European Union on 10 December. This is a legal decision taken by the Court of Justice of the European Union, an independent institution that we fully respect. In the meantime, the Council decided to bring an appeal against this judgment before the Court and requested that this appeal be suspensive. As expressed by the High Representative, Vice-President of the Commission, Federica Mogherini, in her statement of Friday 11 December and at the end of the European Union-Morocco Association Council on Monday 14 December, Morocco and the European Union have a broad, solid and rooted partnership in the framework of the advanced partnership that the country enjoys. For Belgium as for the European Union, this decision of the European Union Tribunal does not in any way call into question the importance of relations between the European Union and Morocco, which remains a key partner in our southern neighbourhood. On the question of labelling, existing EU legislation aims to inform consumers about the origin of the products they consume. The indication of origin must be correct and is intended to give consumers the opportunity to make informed choices. Where labelling is mandatory, the geographical origin must appear correctly on the label. This labelling is mandatory for fruit and vegetables, honey, wine, eggs, poultry, organic and cosmetic products. For more detailed information on the practical application of these principles, I refer you to the FPS Economy responsible for this and to my colleague, the Minister of Economy and Consumers, Kris Peeters. We will, of course, follow the evolution of the legal procedure which is going on before the Court of Justice and we will see what conclusion we should draw from a possible judgment of this Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic298x.u108	Minister, I share your view. Relations between the European Union and Morocco are important, but they must have sound foundations, which is clearly not the case according to the judgment of the European Union Tribunal. Like you, I trust the Court of Justice of the European Union. It is a pity that the European Union has been on appeal. The fact of manufacturing products in an occupied territory is not only immoral, the Tribunal has just said that it was illegal. I will wait, like you, for the outcome of the appeal, but it is a first validation that this idea that products made in colonies are illegal. Perhaps one day we can have a legal basis to ban the sale of these products in our country and in the European Union. I will be very pleased with that, as will the Palestinians and the Saharawis.
