ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u2	The President (in front of the standing assembly) Colleagues, this Friday, January 30, 2015, we learned with regret the death of our former colleague Robert Denison, honorary president of the College of Quaestors of our Assembly. He was 78 years old. After his secondary education at the Royal Athénée de Namur and his military service in airfield defence units, he began his working life as a factory worker. From 1954 to 1959, Robert Denison was employed in the Fédération des Mutalités Socialistes et Syndicales de Liège et de Namur. He entered political life as deputy secretary general (from 1959 to 1968), then secretary general of the Namibian Federation of the Belgian Socialist Party until 1971. In 1964, he was elected communal councillor of Namur. At the mid-legislature, it replaced finance, youth and sports until the merger of the municipalities in 1976. After that, he was regularly re-elected as a communal councillor until October 2000, when he no longer ran. At the local level, he spared no effort to make Namur a city where everyone could find their place and flourish. He was able to make his mark on the city he loved so much and whose interests he always defended. Witnessing his commitment to the construction of the Centre Namurois des Sports and his campaign for the permanent establishment of the Walloon institutions in Namur. In November 1971 he was elected to the Chamber. He would remain in our assembly until 1991. Having always faced the many problems facing the working population, Robert Denison will intervene knowingly but always wisely. The daily way of life of his fellow citizens has received his attention, and he has often mentioned this during his interventions in committee. He will always speak with frankness, clarity and clarity. As soon as he joined the House, he became a member of the National Defence Commission. Here too, it will continue along the path it has set itself, which is one of priority to real problems. Whether it is the purchase of F-16s or Patriot missiles, AWACS or armoured vehicles, Robert Denison will ask precise, almost palpable questions, and will require the government's clear answers, figures in support. Robert Denison became president of the College of Quaestors of the House in 1988. This imposing burden will enable him to understand from within the functioning of our assembly. It will continue to do its utmost to ensure that its parliamentary colleagues have sufficient infrastructure. Under his impulse, the House of Members received a facelift. The Europe Room, the International Hall and the modernisation of Room 5 are among its most important achievements. He also played an important role in public transport. For example, he was at the wheel of the final phase of the division of the National Society of Neighborhood Railways and its distribution between Flanders and Wallonia. And until 2002 he was president of the Société regionale wallonne du transport. During his 20 years in the House, he marked our assembly with his ability to listen and the quality of his interventions. By basing his action on "the human first", Robert Denison has built a constant and solid bond with all those whom he has met in the performance of his duties. He was a simple man, faithful to his socialist commitment. His direct style but also his common sense earned him the esteem of all his fellow citizens. I have extended the condolences of our assembly to his wife.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u3	Mr President, you have traced the path of Robert Denison, a former Socialist Member of Parliament for the district of Namur, who served almost twenty years in the federal Parliament. The federal government would like to associate itself with the tribute paid to it. First elected communal councillor in the city of Namur in October 1964, he became an alderman of Finance, Youth and Sports. During his tenure, he devoted himself to the completion of the construction of the Namurois Sports Centre, Avenue de Tabora in Salzinnes. You recalled his role with many fellow citizens, especially with many workers to whom he was close. I would also like to acknowledge the role he played in an important moment in Belgian political life through his commitment to make Namur the capital of Wallonia and the seat of the Walloon executive, the current Walloon government. The government extends its condolences to Robert Denison's family, his political family and his loved ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u4	Mr President, Minister for Employment, for the last few weeks we have been experiencing reactions of misunderstanding, disappointment or even upheaval from many pre-pensioned workers. Indeed, since 1 January, the latter must be fully available on the labour market until the age of 65, under penalty. In concrete terms, they must actively seek employment, take part in training, follow paths of support, and accept job proposals. For many older workers, often tired of intense industrial activity, this amounts to starting again from scratch by resuming training and accepting temporary workers. However, they did not ask for their company to undergo restructuring. Had they been aware of this evolution of the rules of the game, they would probably not have agreed to leave. This measure is also problematic because of its retroactive effect. Those who have benefited from the old system are also targeted when they have already reorganized their lives. This is all the more incomprehensible in view of the high unemployment among young people and the increased competition between generations that this reform will bring about. Minister, do you intend to come back to this measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Daerden, I will be very brief because I think this is the fourth time you have asked this question. However, it is true that this is a very serious problem, especially for the people concerned. That said, you know – at least, I hope – the government agreement that provides for the principle that all pre-pensioners must be available in the labour market up to the age of 65. However, an amendment was made by the Royal Decree of 30 December 2014, which provides for a transitional regime. I am aware that the problem is very wide because many pre-pensioned people must now be available on the labour market. I have said three or four times that the Group of 10 is very important. It meets with a view to finding a collective solution. If the social partners are able to find an agreement to adapt a few measures in this area, I have indicated that I agree to discuss them within the government. I hope to be able to send you an e-mail shortly to send you information about this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u6	Minister, as you pointed out, this is an important problem. It is for this reason that I allow myself to return to the theme. I thought I could ask you this question yesterday in committee, but given your agenda, it was not possible. I can hear your confidence in the Group of 10. I hope that he will have the wisdom to reach a fine agreement tomorrow – because I think it is a bad measure – and then, Minister, you can bring this agreement to the level of government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u7	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last Tuesday the members of the liberal trade union and of the Christian trade union supported the agreement of the Group of Ten, or rather the Group of Eight. Unfortunately, the ABVV did not want to approve that agreement. This is not the first time. Unfortunately, in the previous legislature too, we had to note that this trade union is not in a position to reach agreements. We are pleased that the social partners have come to a consensus with the government. I would like to reiterate once again that the agreement contains important concessions compared to the coalition agreement. According to the government agreement, the runways could only be reduced from 60 years, which is now reduced to 55 years. The general bridge pension or SWT will be permanent in the coming years from 60 years, while the government agreement set out 62 years. Above all, wage moderation, the wage freeze, which was actually unilaterally decreed by the previous government, without consensus with the trade unions, is now being abandoned and a margin of 0.8% of possible increase is being granted. In doing so, the government proves that social dialogue is not a dead letter, which is also stated in the coalition agreement, and that method also effectively leads to results. Minister, part of that agreement is the commitment to respect social peace and bring peace and calm to our country. My group is concerned that the ACV said at the same time at the time of the adoption of the texts that it will carry out new actions. We can't do that. If we want a good social dialogue, then the partners must be reliable and credible and cannot implement part of the agreement they have concluded, especially if they urge the government not to change a letter because the agreement is one and indivisible. The government has also applied it in full. New actions are now being announced, including the wage index, which was the subject of discussions. Minister, what specific agreements do you have on social peace? Do you trust the ACV in its commitment to social peace? What will happen if the commitment is not met?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u8	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the social agreement was approved by eight partners. The socialist union has, again, not been involved, but that is not new. We are pleased with the agreement: it contains many measures leading to job creation. Moreover, the government has provided an additional 127 million euros for the lowest wages to counter the unemployment trap. That is a very important point that was raised by the government. Job creation is essential for the N-VA. I understand that the government will implement the social agreement loyally and comprehensively. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it takes two to tango. Some have approved the agreement, in particular the ACV, but a few minutes later we could already see that the union is announcing actions. The agreement has been concluded for two years. So I expect there will be social peace in this country for at least two years. My question is therefore very simple, Minister: what guarantees can you give to all of us here today, in the Chamber, that the country is not being shut down, that companies are not being crippled and that workers can simply go to work? People are really tired of it, extra actions or strikes are absolutely not on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u9	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we must welcome this agreement reached by 8 partners in the Group of 10, employers and trade unions who have taken on their responsibilities. The government, I imagine you will confirm that, has announced that it will implement this agreement. Of course, it is absolutely necessary. But the story isn't over. Because apart from the issues on the negotiating table, there are other thorny points: index jumping, but also the need to show more fairness in the efforts demanded of the population. For that, you know, and I think you're convinced, at least that's what I've heard, it's essential to move towards a shift tax. This will allow for greater equity in the efforts required of the population; it will also create jobs. Deputy Prime Minister, the unions have taken an important step and you are all calling for social calm. Of course, we need social calm. But today it is up to the government to take a step, as the unions did. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, is the government prepared to take this step, and in particular, to move quickly with the social partners and all the active forces towards an important tax shift?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u10	Mr Minister, I would like to protect you and all the members of the majority from a partial or triumphal reading of the agreement reached in the Group of 10. This agreement should not be told what is not included in it, particularly with regard to index jumping. For me, things are very clear in the foreplay. Employers and workers differ in their opinion as to the timeliness and usefulness of an index jump. That is, that remains. Mr Minister, the social partners have reached an agreement, in particular on the allocation of the welfare envelope, in difficult circumstances; and that is to their credit. However, the scales are now unbalanced. There are index jumps and many measures that affect the most fragile of us. I am thinking of the abolition of supplementary allowances for part-time unemployed, for the elderly unemployed, the non-indexation of the pensioners' tax scales, the continuation of hunting for the unemployed and the continued exclusion of integration allowances. In such circumstances, it is normal for resistance to be organized and for new actions to be considered so that the government can take other measures that rebalance the scales. My question is simple: Minister, beyond the social peace that you seem to pursue – it is a means, but not an objective in itself – what are the new measures envisaged by the government to achieve more social justice? Earlier, we will hold a debate on the fight against fraud where your government, like its predecessors, is inefficient; moreover, a debate is under way on a tax shift: will it be achieved and will it really affect the income of capital? That, in my view, would be likely to advance towards social justice, which is necessary to generate social peace.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u11	Mr President, the Minister of Social Concertation, in my opinion, you should not suffer from the sin of pride. It is certainly not a triumphal time when you know that the whole of a union, the FGTB, and half of the CSC, which you know very well, reject the negotiated agreement fifteen days ago. The existence of significant social malaise must be recognized. You're calling the social lull. But you know why one union, the socialist union, refused to sign your agreement and another, by almost a majority, also refused to sign it: index jump. Index jump is an important element. That is why this attitude of trade union organisations is far from being innocent. Automatic indexing is an essential right for workers and for social beneficiaries. In my view, there is little chance that not only the socialist union but also the Christian union – they announced it – will give up. However, as we have seen, the union bench is divided between those who refuse out of coherence and those who agree because they are probably afraid of you. But the only ones who seem particularly happy are on the management bench: they have obtained the best deal in 20 years! However, I would like to tell you that such an imbalance does not constitute a victory for your majority, at the risk of disappointing one of your partners who has just spoken, namely the N-VA. A senior CSC official said: "No one believes, even Peter Timmermans in his wildest dreams, that there will be social peace on all subjects." Index jump is an important element. You call for a social lull, and yet you say, "The index jump will be implemented." Mr Minister, I would therefore like to understand. Does your majority seek or wish to avoid conflict? The basic note of the consultation stated that the aim was to close the wage gap in the short term. If it appears that this objective will be achieved without making your index jump, which has been confirmed by the Plan Bureau in committee, are you prepared to give it up? If not, I would like to know what still allows you to justify this one? And if the Group of 10 could say that this index jump is superfluous, do you make a commitment to postpone this to the government, as you just told Mr. Daerden?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u12	Minister, once again, it has been shown that investing in social dialogue and building confidence leads to more results than seeking out the conflict. Getting the social dialogue back on track was the government's explicit choice. To the regret of those who envie, results have also been achieved. You have invested a great deal in it, which has led to an agreement. What has undoubtedly also played a role was the government's explicit choice to strengthen the purchasing power of the lowest incomes. It spends more money on the welfare envelope than the previous government, increasing the minimum benefits and increasing the purchasing power of pensioners. In addition, the lowest wages increase and the purchasing power of all workers is strengthened by the increase in the flat-rate professional costs. Taking responsibility in difficult times, as the government and the social partners have done, is not evident, but very courageous. The agreement reached is therefore a first but very important step towards stability and social peace. If we want social peace and stability to be strengthened, it will be necessary, firstly, for the government to implement the agreement, which is one and indivisible, as soon as possible and, secondly, for it to comply with its other commitments on other issues such as a fair burden shift. Thirdly, the government must respect the ongoing consultations on a number of very concrete dossiers such as SWT and older unemployed. Hence my question, Minister. What concrete arrangements have been made to implement the social agreement as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, who would have thought two months ago that I should answer questions here today about an agreement between the social partners? No one would have dared to put money into answering questions today about an agreement, for which, first and foremost, the social partners deserve congratulations. I believe that they have conducted courageous negotiations and made difficult decisions. On 30 January they came to the government to say that five of the six organisations concerned had reached an agreement. I would like to mention them explicitly: VBO, UCM, UNIZO, Boerenbond, ACV and ACVLB. They have reached an agreement, which they propose to the government. These organisations have said with great sense of responsibility that they would agree on all the elements. They have presented their proposals to their supporters. It was a very difficult exercise to tell the grassroots that they, as social partners, take responsibility in these difficult times. On 11 February the government was informed that an agreement had been reached. We have invited the Group of Ten. And also the FGTB and the ABVV because it is very important not only to work with the 8 but especially with the 10! As regards wage developments for the next two years, employers and employees have reached a compromise with the index jump in mind. It was said that the agreement was being implemented. Mr Lachaert, you are right, the agreement of 30 January, which is one of eight partners, indeed contains an important passage. For example, the social partners demand the faithful and comprehensive implementation of the draft agreement. It is also their common will to ensure compliance with the draft agreement on the ground and thus to provide an enforceable, legally certain and unambiguous framework for negotiations at sectoral and enterprise level. This must lead, according to the text, to stability and calm in all sectors and businesses. In short, the eight partners themselves have said that they are in favour of stability and calm in order to enable all negotiations at sectoral and business level. That is why yesterday the government also agreed to implement the agreement fully, pointing out the great importance of that passage. We have put forward a compromise proposal for wage developments there, in accordance with the regulations and in particular the 1996 law. This compromise proposal did not receive the agreement of the entire Group of Ten. We shall now proceed with the implementation of the agreement. This afternoon, an inter-kabinets working group will meet to arrange the implementation. The agreement is impressive, because it is not just an agreement on wage development, but also on the welfare envelope and the royal decisions on runways, SWT and the index jump. That's a very sensitive matter. I can join anyone in that. However, it is the government that has decided to do an index jump. We will make this legally possible and come to Parliament with a draft law that collects all these elements. The government has also decided to allocate EUR 127 million for the lowest wages. We will, at the same time as raising the benefits, develop a system to increase the lowest wages net pro rata from the entry into force. I have already said that there are other issues. Mr Daerden has just referred to the availability of the scientists. There are other problems. Mrs Fonck, you mentioned the discussion about the tax shift. It's obvious. For many other issues, we must find a solution, a fair and reasonable solution. I believe that further work will be carried out within the federal government to resolve these issues, in the bosom of the federal government, au sein du governement fédéral. That's what we'll do. We will do the most we can, once we have reached agreements there, in dialogue with the social partners. In this way, we want to make possible the social peace and peace contained in the agreement of the eight themselves, to which the companies and the government attach the utmost importance. Trade unions are interest groups and they can take action according to the wisdom they themselves lay down. Mr Lachaert, ACLVB has also said that it is going to take action. You may have forgotten your liberal union in the list. They also said that they would organise actions, but that these actions would not be strikes on the basis of the agreement. Of course, it is not a question of hypotheism on the part of companies to make clear what points the trade unions are defending in which files.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u14	The time of a reply is one minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I believe that it clarifies the summary of the agreement. I am also pleased that you confirm that this clause on social peace is in it. After all, it is crucial. Let us also understand very clearly, you said very clearly that the index jump was part of the discussions that have been held and is therefore actually covered by that social peace clause. It is therefore impossible for trade unions to continue to take action on the basis of this index gap which has been accepted. This can't be happening. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe in good social dialogue and we believe that this has been done. However, that is a two-way street. It is not a unilateral dictatorship of trade union organisations which impose that certain measures should be removed because they do not agree with it. It is a dialogue in which the government adjusts where necessary. She has already proven that she does and she will continue to do so, with respect for the spirit of the coalition agreement. Our group will not accept that we are being held hostage by those who want to destroy this country economically.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u16	Mr President, Mr Peeters, you referred to the social agreement. There is, of course, a social agreement which we support. However, there is also social peace. You have read the phrase on social peace, so social peace is clearly in the agreement. My question was, however, what guarantees will you give us, the companies and the people to ensure that they can work again? I hear that the trade unions are announcing strikes and actions, and that is the last thing this country needs. Finally, I cannot get the impression that the trade unions are not simply organizing a strike, but that they are moving towards a political strike. After all, there is the coalition agreement, which reflects on 25 May 2014. In the coalition agreement... [[Rumor]] Mrs. Onkelinx, I'm a democracy. I respect democracy. You don't and I do, that's the difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u17	Mrs. Demir, continue your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u18	The coalition agreement contains a number of other measures, to which Mr Lachaert referred, such as the index jump. No index jump on the index jump, but to create jobs. We assume that we will carry them all out. I think and hope that everyone will now simply implement not only the social agreement but also the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u19	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. You have obviously put energy into social consultation, but I am not sure that your mink of social consultation is the same as that of all your government's partners. We're talking about the diktats of the unions. Mrs Demir, in your vision of social consultation, you would almost tell them to be silent and to obey! It's not the first time you've ever done it with the same kind of approach. But you forget that it is thanks to two of the three unions that there is an agreement between the social partners. Otherwise, there would have been a social fire! You can at least recognize that the unions have taken an important step! Today, there are discussions between the government and the social partners. The government must also take that step. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I have heard what you have said, but you must now take action with this real tax revolution, whether it be taxation of income from compulsive speculation, organised tax fraud, reduction of corporate tax or wage increases. Deputy Prime Minister, it is up to you to act, with or without the partners of your majority!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u20	Mrs Fonck, you have exceeded your speaking time!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u21	Minister, in your answer, you claim that the government is united around these questions, but we see that this is not the case. Mrs Demir calls you even more vigorously than I and every weekend, on television sets, your government illustrates the fact that not everyone is shooting in the same direction! Social peace is not required! Social peace is being built, Minister! Social peace is being built, ladies and gentlemen, members of the majority! I think you forgot it! Minister, I really regret that you are not more clear about the fact that index jump is not included in the Group of 10. It's written explicitly, I quoted it in my question. I think you really would have merit in recognizing that this is a separate matter. There is an agreement on the allocation of the welfare envelope, there is an agreement on the ability to grant salary increases, there is no agreement on the index jump! In the face of the anti-social measures of your government, faced with their inoperative economic dimension, the anger of the workers is legitimate. We'll be the bearer. You have to change course. You need a tax shift! We must fight tax fraud!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u22	Mr. Minister of Social Peace, thank you for your answer. Indeed, two months ago, we could ask ourselves questions. It's true that you have the whole boss bench behind you. You don't have the FGTB behind you, you raised it. You don't, you seem to forget, 50% of your CVA friends. This makes us more than half the workers in Belgium. If I take 50% of the CCS-ACV, if I take 100% of the FGTB, that makes more than 50% of the workers in Belgium who refuse your agreement! I want to point out that if you want social peace for two years, as Mrs Demir asks you, give up index jumping, make this tax shift! It's not with partners like these that you'll get the social lull you're asking for. This lull must be built. It is not with inflammatory statements that you will succeed! If I have to, I'll come back every week to talk to you about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u23	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. This is a non-existent choice of the social partners and the trade unions which approved this agreement. We respect what the social partners have agreed. We will not provoke them as many here try to do. The experience and social history of our country teaches us that the social partners are reliable partners who also faithfully implement a negotiated agreement. We are counting on social peace to come a great step closer to this and to strengthen the purchasing power of the lowest incomes. At the same time, we are counting on dialogue to resolve other problems such as tax reform with a fair shift of burdens. We are counting on this government and on the further social dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u24	Minister, a few months ago several fellow Members asked here several questions about the events of 6 November in Brussels and about what went wrong that day, including the role of the mayor of Brussels. You announced an objective investigation at the time. We are told that there is a final report from the AIG, the General Inspectorate, on the events of 6 November. That report says, if I'm well informed, some very pertinent things. Let me sum up some of them. There were insufficient resources available. There was an inappropriate chain of command, insufficient coordination, insufficient protective equipment for the men, a lack of guidelines issued by the mayor on whose territory most of the manifestation took place, a lack of consultation between the three municipalities. There was no risk analysis and no contact between the mayor and the commando. These are some of the pertinent findings and decisions to which the General Inspectorate comes. It is not up to us, Minister, to find some scapegoat or several scapegoats. That's not the point. The aim must be to draw lessons from this for the future in order to avoid such repetitions, especially in the interests of the security of our police officers in such tasks. Minister, how will you deal with the recommendations and decisions of the report?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u25	Mr Degroote, it is true that the report of the AIG, which had been announced several times, has been drawn up and I have been able to take note of it. The report contains a description of the facts and a whole series of recommendations. It discusses matters that have been handled sloppy or gone wrong on that day. We should not tell each other about this, if 134 police officers are injured, then there are things that can be improved, to say the least. After I had taken note of the report, I invited those involved to my cabinet, both the mayor of Brussels and the Chief Constable of Brussels and a number of other people. We have had a good discussion and we have decided that we will go through the report together with the police area of Brussels, the mayor of Brussels and my cabinet, and that we will draw up a plan of action. There are 800 events every year in Brussels, fortunately not every time with 120 000 people in the streets. Brussels is confronted with manifestations almost daily. It is of the utmost importance for our safety that they are carried out correctly. We, Brussels and the Cabinet, will therefore work together to see how things can be improved in the future and we will draw up a plan for this. This model can therefore be used for other cities where events take place. So it becomes a case study that can be extrapolated to other cities in this country that are facing major manifestations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased to hear that there is a plan of action and that the federal government is developing a model for Brussels. I myself have been mayor for more than 26 years, but frankly I wouldn't like to have such a high-level approach. I would see that as a sort of curate, but in this case, in Brussels, it was certainly necessary, given what has happened. This must be avoided in the future. I hope that you will be playing on the ball shortly and will follow this issue very closely in order to achieve real results. It is to your credit that you are working in a very objective and serene manner and that you have not used any weapons used against you in the investigation in recent months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u27	Mr President, Minister, last year more than 200 000 immigrant candidates set foot in Greece and Italy. Illegal immigration to Europe has never been so great. According to the European Border Guard Agency Frontex, the Turkish port city of Mersin is a new hub in that kind of smuggling. Thousands of refugees pay between $4 000 and $8 000 for the crossing to Europe. They usually set course for the Italian coast in so-called haunted ships. These are very large, old cargo ships on which hundreds of people are shipped at the same time, with all the associated risks. Minister, it is impossible for the Turkish authorities not to know what is happening off its shores. Ali Tanriverdi, one of the most famous Turkish human rights activists, who lives in the port city of Mersin, points out that the Turkish State could easily use its secret service to identify the names of those who hide behind these large operations. However, this does not happen in practice. However, it cannot be difficult to identify illegal migratory flows from that port city. There are even public Facebook groups, including travel agency, specifically for Syrian refugees to sail through that port city to the Italian coast. Apparently, the smugglers do not fear that the Turkish authorities would intervene, since they even publicly advertise human trafficking. With regard to social media, of course, the Turkish Government has other priorities such as blocking newspapers in which people are critical of the regime. Minister, I have three questions. Firstly, will you insist that Turkey intervene? To this day, they consciously allow these degrading abuses. Secondly, will the European Union itself take firm action against Turkey? We are talking about a candidate country which refuses to restrict illegal immigration into the European Union. Finally, does this affect the accession negotiations with Turkey? Are you still in favour of starting chapters 22, 23 and 24 in the accession negotiations? I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u28	Mr President, Mrs Pas, ladies and gentlemen,... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u29	I haven't said anything yet; I'm just getting started. With regard to our relations with Turkey, I have already given a very detailed answer in the Committee on External Relations. So I'm not going to elaborate on that. I can answer your specific question as follows. A number of initiatives have already been taken at European level, for example with Frontex, as well as in relation to my Turkish fellow Members. The Turkish port town of Mersin is indeed referred to as a hub for smugglers. Through that port, we would try to transport cargo ships loaded with refugees illegally to Europe. The phenomenon of the haunted ships, in which the crew leaves the ship and leaves it without steering towards Italian coast, is a problem that is getting an ever greater dimension. In this respect, I will be in contact with my Turkish fellow Members. I will try to organise a trilateral meeting, with my colleagues from the Interior, Justice and Foreign Affairs. With regard to relations with Turkey, I repeat that the accession process is in progress, which does not mean that Turkey will join in the coming months or years. It's a negotiation process. Furthermore, I repeat that we are part of the same coalition with Turkey against Daesh in Iraq. We are trying to maintain the best possible contact with the exchange of information on foreign fighters in Iraq and Syria.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am glad that you at least acknowledge the problem, because it is a major problem. Nevertheless, I remain somewhat hungry. You are only answering my first question by telling me what you are going to do in concrete terms, namely to have contacts with the people in Turkey themselves and to make recommendations to them. However, will the European Union itself act against Turkey? You referred to the fact that yesterday I interviewed you on the latest progress report on accession negotiations. For nine years in a row, the same complaints have been made, namely complaints about a manifest violation of the principles of the rule of law, of human rights, of women's rights, of the rights of non-Muslims and so on. However, you are not doing much, because the accession negotiations may continue. Today you, together with us, note that a candidate country refuses to cooperate in the security of Europe's external borders. Nillens will act as a transit country for illegal migration to the European Union. You still refuse to stop the accession negotiations. I wonder, Minister, what conditions for Turkey's accession still have to be violated, so that the accession negotiations can finally be stopped.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u31	Mr President, Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, the Congo is not one of the world's most topical countries, so many of the other reasons for international concern. However, the situation there is particularly worrying, dangerous and explosive even when we know that all the ingredients of what can really be called a dictatorship are gradually being put in place. We know the bloody repression of the demonstrations of 19 and 20 January. We know the imprisonment of political demonstrators, the harassment of human rights activists, the global repression of everything that can upset the power in place, the delays and, above all, the delaying manoeuvres around the electoral process. These are not only the elements of a dictatorship but also of a dangerous situation, because we know that the Congolese population has had enough of it and is not going to let it happen. She showed it on the 19th and 20th of January. Our diplomacy, our country, Belgium, is probably one of the few countries, perhaps the only country in the world, the only parliament in the world that cares about the situation in the Congo outside the borders of the Congo. Belgium's position on this issue is therefore clearly awaited. You're going to Congo soon. We will wait, tens of millions of Congolese will wait for the position, the attitude of Belgium in relation to the situation prevailing there. Mr Minister, I therefore ask you to speak plain language, firm in relation to what is happening there today. The Americans have just held their own, what is happening in the Congo is unacceptable. We must be able to tell the Congolese political class. There must be a system of measures, if any, that will ensure that this political class, which is trying at all costs to keep itself in power today, understands that this is not an acceptable attitude. I await, Mr Minister, what will be Belgium's proposals, particularly at European level, to prevent the irreparable happening in the Congo.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u32	Mr President, Minister, this question, I tabled in committee in mid-January, and it would have been answered, because you are only too rarely present there, unfortunately, only on 31 March according to the proposed agenda. I'm really glad to have the opportunity to ask you today. A few weeks ago, the Congolese government was meeting to adopt a bill amending the electoral law in order, according to them, to correct some shortcomings that had occurred during the 2011 presidential election. Among the measures included were the subordination of the presidential and legislative elections to the end of the popular census. This bill was forcibly passed into parliament and was criticized by opposition parties and by some citizens. Demonstrations have taken place and have been severely repressed. On January 24, the Senate also considered the bill and deleted the main paragraph, which provoked popular anger. The amendment to the electoral law, which was to double the guarantee paid by the candidates in order to be able to participate in the presidential elections, had been maintained. The effect of this measure is to reduce the number of candidates who will be able to run for office in the presidential elections. Minister, what is Belgium's position on these new legislative provisions? What about the position of the European Union, if you have had an opportunity to discuss it? Are you aware, in the run-up to the presidential elections, of other arrangements that could be made? Belgium had promised to contribute to the financing of the preparations for the various elections. Are these new provisions and the resulting tensions such as to undermine this funding promise? How does Belgium intend to be part of the electoral process that will take place in the DRC? What overall approach are you advocating with the Departments of Cooperation and Defence in terms of logistics?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u33	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what Mr Dallemagne has just said is true: Congo is still an important partner for our country. If Belgium says anything about Congo, it will listen: in the world, but certainly also in the European Union. It is all the more reason not to slacken our attention to the region. What was going on? Presidential elections will soon be planned in Congo, but President Kabila wanted to organise a census first before the elections. That is a little subtle manoeuvre to refer those elections to the Greek calendar and to remain in power for longer. In a country such as Congo and with its infrastructure, it is not easy to organise such a census. Fortunately, there was a lot of protest from the people of Congo against President Kabila's intention, but that was violently defeated, particularly repressive. According to Human Rights Watch, 36 people died, according to the Congolese government 16. Minister, it is important that you express your concern about the Congolese Government and ensure that the right to peaceful protest and to free speech is guaranteed. But there's more than that. The Congolese government has blocked texting and internet traffic. Several opposition members have been arrested. Many human rights organisations in the country experience daily pressure, making it difficult to function. I would like to know from you when, at what time, in what capacity, in what words, during your contacts with the Congolese Government, you called for greater respect for these fundamental freedoms? If I'm not mistaken, you're going to Congo with Minister De Croo at the end of February. That is the ideal time to discuss a number of issues. It is important that the electoral process and respect for human rights are put on the table there. In the plenary session of 22 January, you said that if the situation in Congo gets worse, you will not rule out any further diplomatic initiatives. I would like to know what diplomatic initiatives you consider feasible in order to increase pressure on the Congo.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u34	Minister, on 22 January I already asked a question here about the double ground in the Congolese electoral law clause concerning the requested census. A few days later, that clause was also removed, unfortunately at the expense of many people's lives in the riots associated with it. However, Minister, I am not at all reassured. Firstly, in the aftermath of the unrest, we must note that Kabila has not yet signed the amendment of the electoral law. According to the Constitution, he must do so within 30 days. Secondly, as has already been said here, about 300 demonstrators have been detained today without any trial. We have to note that mobile and internet traffic remains blocked, but also that several supporters of presidential candidate Katumbi are still in prison. Kabila continues to surf in the grey zone between democracy and dictatorship. He's also more and more isolated. In the conflict in East Congo, he has chosen to fight only against the DRC, which means that the NV and MONUSCO are now abandoning him as well. Minister, I have two specific questions for you. Firstly, will you, in your contacts with the Congolese Government, like the Special Envoy Russ Feingold, ask for a specific calendar and a date on which the elections will take place? Secondly, can you confirm or follow up on whether Kabila has finally signed that modified electoral law?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that it is the honour of Belgium to keep the issue of Central Africa, and of the Congo in particular, on the international agenda. Unfortunately, many other events often lead to the disappearance of this theme from the agenda. Today, I must say that I expected to be asked more about Ukraine. We have ensured that, systematically, at the European Council and the Foreign Affairs Council, as at United Nations level, the issue is on the table, with three major concerns. Of course, there is the electoral calendar and not just in the Congo. I was with Alexander De Croo in Burundi and Rwanda. We have the same concerns in all countries of the region regarding the observance of the electoral calendar. The speech is always the same. We call on all countries in the region, in particular the Congo, to respect the timetable and constitutional provisions. There will therefore be a request again to release this calendar, which Abbé Malu Malu for the Congo, the chairman of the electoral commission, should do. In the same way, we condemn the violence mainly on the part of the authorities against a number of demonstrators and the arbitrary arrests and we call for action in the East, very directly through the intervention of the army, against certain groups that still exist, mainly the FDLR. I have been asked what diplomatic initiatives are possible in the electoral field. Those initiatives have already been taken. I have had several contacts with the Prime Minister of Congo. Our ambassador on the ground has also been in contact with the President of the Senate and with the President of the National Assembly. Then our ambassador, together with the ambassadors of France, the United States, the United Kingdom and the European Union, had contact with President Kabila. After the demonstration in Kinshasa, after the contacts with the ambassadors on the ground and after my contact with the Prime Minister, it proved possible to change the electoral law. We have succeeded in this by diplomatic pressure. We will continue our work and will demand respect for the Constitution and the electoral calendar. I must also tell you that the demonstrations have led to a number of decisions in Congo. I want to confirm that, like the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner, we condemn arbitrary arrests. According to the communiqué issued by OHCHR on 6 February, there were 300 arbitrary arrests; a number of human rights defenders had been subjected to them and some had disappeared. I can confirm that, during my on-site visit, I will return to this subject with the Minister of Justice but also with President Kabila, asking for an independent investigation to be initiated and for clear conclusions to be drawn from what happened during these events. Similarly, in the development of the situation in the East, an intervention by MONUSCO and the International Brigade was particularly effective with regard to the M23. Now, in order to prosecute – and the Congolese army does – such an effective action must be taken with regard to the FDLR. All armed groups must be disarmed in the region. During our on-site visit, we will repeat all the messages that we tirelessly repeat from Belgium, from the European level or from the United Nations: respect for the electoral calendar, respect for the constitutional provisions in this field, pacification in the East by energetic action by the United Nations and FARDC and a halt to all that may lead to any suspicion of arbitrary arrests or disappearances of persons. We want investigations to be conducted in this regard. As has always been the case in recent weeks, in recent months or in recent years, the message will be very clear to the Congolese authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u36	Mr President, Minister of Foreign Affairs, I have no doubt about your good faith and the fact that this is at the top of your list of priorities. Unfortunately, I see today that the Congolese authorities remain deaf to these concerns, to these appeals. It is therefore necessary to take into account that a cycle has begun: there is one before and one after these demonstrations. When real bullets are fired at demonstrators, when we look for false trials against political opponents, when we twist the electoral calendar and the Constitution to this point, we are clearly ready to do anything to stay in power. On the other hand, a population is at the end of the roll and is ready to do anything to get a change. It is essential to take this reality into account in order to have a clear language. I heard you today, for the first time, condemning arrests and violence; I think that we must also condemn this political will of the Congolese authorities to remain in power at all costs. It's essential. And Belgium's voice will have to be unambiguous on this issue. That is why I think it is important to have a reflection already on the measures that would make some of the main perpetrators of this violence think about. Moreover, they will have to answer for their actions and an investigation will be indispensable for the future of the people and the Congo.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answer. For my group, an integrated approach in this crucial region of Africa must be effective. I must say that for the time being, it is a bit difficult to identify it in your government's action. If the legislative choice taken by a majority cannot be called into question, the repression of peaceful opposition in violence must be condemned. Good governance and democratic values must remain our priority and guide our actions in favour of those countries. The coming months will be crucial for this region of Africa with several elections: Burundi, DRC, Rwanda. We cannot afford to stay on the balcony, we must be attentive and above all be present. I am therefore looking forward to hearing the report of the mission that you will be carrying out in a few days in the DRC.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u38	Minister, it is true that persistent diplomatic pressure can make the difference, because the census is no longer a prerequisite for holding elections. Of course, we are asking you to do the same diplomatic pressure when it comes to condemning arrests and repression against what has ultimately been a democratic protest in Congo. If words are not enough, perhaps we should consider refocusing an important part of our development cooperation away from supporting the Congolese government and much more towards civil society, which is just trying to strengthen human rights in the country. To an important government partner in your government, the Open Vld, I would like to remind you of a press release by Minister Alexander De Croo of 18 November 2014, in which he made it clear that he wants to come up with a policy that is much more based on human rights. If words are not enough, decisive action is needed, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats I ask for consequence and action on your part.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. It is important to put these elections in the light of the last elections today. 2006 was an important election for Congo, mainly because elections were held for the first time. 2011 was the test of democracy. The people could then choose and judge whether what was promised and what was implemented in the policy could also be honored. Unfortunately, that's when things went wrong. So next year's elections are the ultimate test of democracy. Of course, these sustained diplomatic efforts are necessary and, of course, they will also lead to some improvements, but the key question is whether the elections will be correct next year and what will be their outcome. That is what this government's policy needs to be tested for. Then we need to re-assess our cooperation with Congo conditionally.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, finally, after four days we will have an official government opinion on the SwissLeaks. It's never too late! I hope we will have answers to our questions. In advance, I would like to ask you whether you know that this week and next week, the QFIE case in its part Italy is being argued in the Correctional Court. This represents fraud of the order of EUR 100 million. This case was initiated in the early 1990s and has its judicial outcome at first instance more than twenty years later. This means that for large-scale transnational tax cases, it takes a great deal of time for both the tax administration and the judiciary to carry out the investigations necessary to identify the means to update, understand, rectify or even sanction these mechanisms. With the SwissLeaks, we have a new trend of large-scale transnational fraud. We are talking about €6 billion of assets invested in HSBC accounts in Switzerland. Echo, in January 2014, reminded us that Belgian assets in Switzerland are valued at 60 billion euros. This means that it is only a very small part that is thus revealed by the press, but it will require, Mr. Minister of Finance, Mr. Minister of Justice, that you can make a number of arrangements that will lead to the desired results, to the necessary checks and corrections, and even to prosecution and criminal sanctions if it is bought. Therefore, in the budgetary context in which your departments are subject to drastic savings, are you going to free up all the resources in terms of personnel and equipment and ensure that special cells are set up in order to be able to succeed in the SwissLeaks? And it also applies to OffshoreLeaks or LuxLeaks. An effective fight against transnational tax fraud is fundamental!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u41	Mr President, Minister, as you know, the Swissleaks case does not concern small fraudsters. In particular, there are many diamond dealers involved. I know that your colleague Mr Jambon has been or is still president of the diamond club, but that is no reason not to fight tax fraud. Also involved are great bosses, great fortunes, including three families of the top 20 of Belgium's greatest fortunes, namely the families of Spoelberch, De Clercq and Boël. It should be noted that this is not the first time that these families have been involved in a tax fraud case. They are multi-recidivists. I have here a document recapitulating the situation of a few families. If you wish, I can give it to you. The family of Spoelberch, the first fortune of Belgium, shareholder of AB InBev, for example, is involved in SwissLeaks, LuxLeaks, PanamaLeaks, BelLeaks. It has 32 subsidiaries in tax havens. Mr Minister, the PTB defends the idea of creating a cadastre of fortunes which, in addition to the fact that such a cadastre would make it possible to better collect taxes due by capital, would also be an ideal instrument for combating major tax fraud. However, could you not ask the Special Inspectorate of Taxes (SII) to carry out a comprehensive monitoring of the situation of these few multi-recidivist families (societies, personal circumstances, inheritance rights, etc.) so that it can draw up a global picture and combat this tax fraud overall?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u42	Mr Minister, I assume that, as a former journalist, you will certainly have appreciated the quality of the work done by your former colleagues, a work that certainly deserves to be welcomed. What I hope is that, as the current Minister of Finance, you have been shaken by the magnitude of the revelations and convinced - I really hope so - of the need to review the government's copy of the fight against tax fraud. Indeed, it must be recognized that the government is wrong in this matter. The political guidance note, which had been tabled by your Secretary of State, was a kind of zero degree in the fight against tax fraud. This note explained that tax fraud is a very subjective concept and that fraud can be explained "by the complexity of the legislation or the multiplicity of obligations that are imposed". The starting political direction was not sensible. In addition, you have reduced the revenue targets related to the fight against tax fraud by aligning them with the amount of revenue related to the fight against social fraud, as if it were amounts of the same magnitude. And above all, this government has reduced the budgetary resources available to its departments. Even today in the press, it can be said that "half of the money-laundering cases are closed" and, according to the Public Prosecutor's Office, "this is, in one third of cases, due to insufficient investigative capacity". By reducing the resources, you have clearly run counter to the recommendations of this Parliament's committee of inquiry. You are now caught up in the facts, Minister, and, luckily, this comes at the very moment when you were launching a test ball to propose an increase in VAT, which has not failed to increase the feeling of injustice of many of our citizens: the increase in VAT, on the one hand, and a certain laxity with regard to tax fraud, on the other hand. Following the revelations echoed by the press, will the government finally give priority to the fight against tax fraud and the strengthening of the means used to that end? How do you justify your expression in favour of an increase in VAT, while every day brings its share of revelations about the extent of the great tax fraud organised in our country? Can we consider further tax increases, even though the government does not give itself all the means to recover the full amount of tax that is legally due?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u43	Minister, in this case, we have an unpleasant impression that we have already seen. After the OffshoreLeaks, LuxLeaks and BelgoLeaks, this is the SwissLeaks. And every time, we hear: "Never again!" I hope that you will take advantage of this forum to, this time, announce a series of first decisions. I would also like to address your colleague, Mr Geens: remember, when Mr Gilkinet questioned you in December 2013 as Minister of Finance on the HSBC file, not so long ago, and claimed that Belgium was a civil party in this case, you said: "The decision to take civil action against the HSBC bank will only be taken when the necessary information is in the possession of the tax administration." I hope, a little more than a year later, that you now have all this information. The press is doing its job. If you don't have the information, it's in the press at least. Therefore, ministers, my first question is: will the government be a civil party, as environmentalists already asked in 2013? My second question, concerning the lack of magistrates, is specifically addressed to the Minister of Justice. I'm from Hainaut. The Mons Court of Appeal must have four judges specializing in tax matters. But today, if my information is correct, only one magistrate would be in office. Is it the same proportion, only 25%, in other springs? And above all, what steps are you going to take? My last question again appeals to your memory. At a recent hearing in the Chamber on 18 February 2014, the Attorney General of the Brussels Court of Appeal reported on a disturbing situation in tax fraud cases: 555 cases under investigation for more than five years were therefore at risk of statute of limitations. What is the status of these 555 files that are threatened with prescription or reasonable delay?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u44	Minister, since the government took office, the people have felt that their tax policy is unfair. Actually, the population is right. It is not just about the total imbalance of efforts, where the great capacities are hardly involved and have been left untouched, but other things have emerged in the past few weeks. They have already been mentioned: LuxLeaks, BelgoLeaks and tax regulations. Today there's SwissLeaks. The payoff law still exists. All these dossiers illustrate one thing: when big fish fraud, they get away with it in our country. That's the problem. This injustice is also confirmed today by an international report. The conclusions are devastating and hallucinating. Belgium has been guided in the fight against money laundering, it says. Belgium has no national strategy in this regard. It refers to 40 recommendations that have been suggested, of which Belgium has only carried out eleven. Eleven recommendations at 40: that amounts to 27 %. That's a thick pipe, Minister. The government might say that this is partly a legacy of the past, but let us look at what the government has done. I would like to quote two examples. The first example is one of the first measures announced. It was the increase in the ceiling for cash payments from EUR 3 000 to EUR 7 500. That is the best gift one can give to money launderers and fraudsters. The second example comes from the Justice Department. Hard savings have been made, including on Justice, including on the human resources policy of the Justice Department. Justice is really gonna get in trouble. You have been questioned on several occasions over the past few weeks, Minister. We then note that 56% of the money-laundering files are dropped. My questions are very specific. It is clear that government policy encourages money laundering and fraud. What is your response to the international report, Minister? What action will the government take to make money laundering a real priority? What will you do with the ceiling raised from EUR 3 000 to EUR 7 500? Will you bring that down again?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u45	Mr President, tax fraud is theft! It's stealing public money, it's stealing our solidarity policies. This is unacceptable. We must continue to be intractable, uncompromising and go to the last penny of fraud. That is our will and it is no doubt because this majority has that will, Minister, that in terms of human resources, you have decided to increase the staff of the ISI by 10%. They're acts. You'd like to confirm that. Besides, I'm not going to ask you for an opinion. The press reports on this case, but it is not new. The information was transmitted in 2010 by the French courts for the periods 2005-2007. It is not a question of having an opinion but of knowing what we have produced as an act to fight against this fraud which concerns 3,000 Belgians according to my information – you may confirm it – and which could cover not far from 6 billion. It is useful to know what we have already done, what we have already been able to recover from this fraud. I'll report a figure around 435 million. You will probably be able to confirm this and tell us how situations have been regularised and through which procedures. You may also be able to tell us what is happening to Switzerland's cooperation with regard to the 494 cases, which are the responsibility of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u46	Mr President, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the dossier is well known. I don't have to repeat it here. It concerns EUR 6 billion that people have put into an account, especially in order to evade taxes. This is fraud. Minister, the indignation about this is very great, not only with my group, but also with the people on the streets, especially because it is repeatedly repeated that we are in an economic crisis and that everyone has to contribute. Well, a number of people can just open accounts in a number of countries today and avoid taxes here. That's why this outrage is so great. However, this is in stark contrast to the indignation within the government. On the occasion of SwissLeaks, we have heard no indignant Prime Minister, no indignant Secretary of State for Combating Fraud. Minister, you have sent a tweet with a table saying that so many files are now under discussion. You're implying that the government is doing a lot. Mr Ducarme, Prime Minister, I must point out that 90% of these files were introduced by the previous government. This government proves once again that it does very little about this tax fraud. The question is how you will turn this around. How will you ensure that we can really believe that tax fraud is being taken seriously? About LuxLeaks, you said there was nothing illegal. Now, at SwissLeaks, we can hardly hear you. So, Minister, my questions are very simple. This week, on top of the 2 450 files already known to the Belgian tax authorities, there are 722 new files. Have they been called in yet? Did you order them to come to France? After LuxLeaks, this government stated that it had not waited for that and that it would introduce the caiman tax, almost saying that it had already introduced it. Minister, we have a proposal for the Cayman tax, but you do not think that is enough. You'd make another proposal. How's that going? When are we gonna get that cayman tax? Finally, the BBI. How many more people will you provide to ensure that this type of case can no longer be prevented and that these files can be dealt with and resolved?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, when I listen to the previous speaker, it seems that the credibility of this government is measured by the volume used to express this indignation. Mr President, as far as I am concerned, the credibility of this government depends on the decisiveness and willingness it has shown to follow up these matters correctly. CD&V shares the indignation. We have clearly demonstrated over the past week that the playing time for the tax sinners, including those who have repented, is long over. What we see now is the next step. People are not only creative with certain structures to avoid Belgian tax authorities, but they are also going to park large sums of money abroad. Often it's about money of dubious origin. These practices do not only occur in Switzerland. Here too, on Belgian territory, certain financial institutions are recruiting clients with money of very questionable origin, not to say of criminal origin. Mr Minister, I believe that such recruiters have an equally negative impact on our society as those other recruiters who have been talking about so much in recent days. The question is not only what we can expect from our Belgian control services, but also what we can expect from international cooperation, including Switzerland. It is not a matter of forgetfulness that can be overlooked. This really is serious fraud. We are primarily responsible for the Belgian aspect, but we must always remember that there is a very strong international component here. Is there sufficient cooperation from all the players in this area, including the number professions and all the players in the Belgian financial market? I know that the banks are making great efforts under the money laundering legislation. Is there sufficient cooperation? Is there sufficient reporting to the hotline? There is also the coordination between the administration and the parquet. It would be good to know why certain files are not transferred to the public prosecutor's office. There is, of course, the regulation that makes it possible to choose a certain route. However, it would be a good thing, Minister, if you could look at the selection mechanisms. We have received this information from a computer technician at a bank. This leads us to suspect that more is going on. How does the tax administration deal with the facts of 2007 and the new facts that have now been revealed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the HSBC publications, my administration is investigating new concrete data in connection with the ongoing survey of the Belgian customers of HSBC. After an initial review of this data by the ISI, it was found that most of the taxpayers currently cited in the press are already subject to the HSBC survey conducted by the ISI. For other taxpayers, there seems to be a connection with Belgium, but their tax domicile is abroad. It goes without saying that in this respect, the administration will examine whether this residence abroad corresponds to reality. You can see that the ISI is very attentive and closely monitoring the development of this case, in particular with regard to the publication of detailed information by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists. In addition, I can also inform you that, as you know, on 7 July 2010, the Belgian tax authorities received a large number of HSBC bank data from the French tax authorities. The Antwerp Court of First Instance recently ruled, in its first judgment, that there is no question of irregularities in obtaining the cd-rom in question. The data obtained were analysed by the ISI and the usable data were shared, on a case-by-case basis, between the ISI and the General Tax Administration (AGFisc). A total of 829 potential files were selected: 494 were investigated by the ISI and 335 by the AGFisc. The files which were the subject of an investigation by the BBI were distributed among different managements in consultation between the regional directors and the central administration. The central administration shall hold regular consultations with regional directors in order to ensure uniform treatment of these dossiers. Other topics will be discussed during these consultations, such as the tactics to be followed in relation to the nature of the corrections, the amount of the tax increase, the public prosecutors' declarations, the consultation with the prosecutors, the handling of disputes and the relevant case law. As regards the BBI, during the valuation phase, and on the date of 21 January 2015, 193 files were closed. For 191 files, after examination, it appears that no additional tax was justified. Detailed data on increased income and taxes were published for the 193 files. I have the table with me, and if the President allows it, I will have it distributed. I would add that, following the 193 files dealt with by the BBI, 136 of the taxpayers concerned were reported to the public prosecutor. I believe that this is a clear illustration of the serious and decisive approach taken by this government, and also by Secretary of State, Mr Sleurs, to tax fraud. We have the resources and the people to do so. As far as AGFisc is concerned, it has also given directives to the tax authorities concerned in order to ensure equal treatment of the taxpayers concerned. The guidelines covered both the procedure to be followed and the sanctions to be applied. The services concerned were also requested to transmit, where appropriate, to the other services any information that might be relevant to the performance of their tasks. With regard to the AGFisc figures, I can provide you with the following information: of 335 selected files, 23 files were cancelled and 312 files checked. The amount of revenue increase (rounded) is EUR 24 million. The amount of taxes recruited (rounded) is EUR 15 million. There were also questions about the money laundering report, the report of the Financial Action Task Force, better known by the French abbreviation GAFI. It concerns a preliminary report to be discussed at the GAFI plenary session, which will take place in Paris in the week of 23 February 2015. The Belgian delegation which will defend this report at the Paris meeting consists of representatives of the government, namely the FPS Justice, the FPS Finance, the FPS Economy, the Federal Police, the National Bank and the FSMA, as well as representatives from the private sector. After this meeting in Paris, the final report will be made public. There is also the fourth European directive on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing, which will be adopted shortly. The publication of this directive is expected between June and September of this year. After adoption and publication, the new provisions in this directive must of course be transposed into Belgian law. There were also questions about the viewing tax or the caiman tax. We are currently completing a draft text on the taxation of the cabinet. That is a complex issue, because it has to be done in a thorough legal way. It is also necessary to examine in detail whether we have the necessary means to ensure that this legislation is effective. We therefore discuss this intensely, both internally with the FPS Finance and with external specialists in this matter. The intention is to come to the Council of Ministers as soon as possible with a final draft, although I would like to avoid the introduction of a draft law which would subsequently require extensive repair legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u49	Mr. Nollet, you were talking about an already seen one. I have one, too. I was Minister of Finance. I behave in a manner as responsible as I did under the old government; I am no different from what I was a few months ago. Mr Laaouej, yesterday, I did my best to answer a question you asked in committee. I hope Mr. Van Overtveldt answered the same thing I did yesterday. Otherwise, there would be a problem. In the case of magistrates and executives, there are three categories of tax magistrates. First, there are the repressions, which number five for a cadre of eight. We do not find a Dutch-speaking candidate for Brussels or a candidate for West Flanders and Hainaut. I will republish the vacancy as soon as possible, but I am appealing to the Minister of Budget against a negative opinion from the Finance Inspectorate. I think I'm gonna win, Mr. Nollet! Secondly, there are thirty tax judges in the courts of first instance for a framework of thirty-two. Two places were published on 18 August 2014 at the Moniteur belge for Eastern Flanders. Appointments will be made shortly. Finally, there are sixteen tax substitutes for a framework of twenty-one. In Mons, three places were republished on 18 December. There is no candidate, so I will republish but I am on appeal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u50	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u51	We need specialists, but if you wish, I can call on temporary workers in the prosecutor's office. As for your question concerning the statute of limitations, the College of Attorneys-General informed me that in the time allotted to it it was impossible to answer such a question. They're doing everything they can to get the information and I'll come back to you as soon as possible. You announced on Twitter that you were going to ask me to register as a civil party. Unfortunately, it is the Minister of Finance who will have to decide whether or not to become a civil party. So he's the one you have to ask about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u52	Colleagues, as soon as I have received the figures from the Minister of Finance, I will have them distributed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u53	Mr President, ministers, I have rarely seen such confusion in the explanations. You actually described John Crombez's record when it came to dealing with the first part of HSBC. Yes, the 829 files, we have known them since 2010! And the Di Rupo government, and John Crombez in particular, took all the necessary steps to manage them. Indeed, more than 400 million have returned to our coffers. Thank you John Crombez! Thank you Di Rupo Government! I'm talking about the new HSBC case, the 3,000 customers! These are the ones we're talking about, Mr. Minister of Finance, and I didn't get an answer! Because we have to get out of passivity, we have to get out of this situation where we are waiting to receive information from abroad in order to carry out investigations. I'm telling you, there are 60 billion assets hidden in Switzerland by Belgian residents. This is what needs to be addressed through new and scaled-up investigations and investigations. There's been a lot of talk about disqualification. I am going to propose one: the withdrawal of the banking authorisation, of these banks, of these subsidiaries, of these branches that come to Belgium to shop to empty the state funds and siphon our public finances through tax fraud and the strengthening of the Special Inspectorate of Taxes and Magistrates. This will not be achieved simply through passivity, but through a proactive policy that puts the fight against tax fraud and the fight against financial crime at the heart of the government's priorities, which, unfortunately at the moment, is not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u54	Mr Minister, you have given a series of figures, which summarize the work of the FPS Finances, of the ISI since 2010, but not what you intend to do, in relation to the SwissLeaks and the question I asked you: are you considering reacting to these great fortunes of Belgium that are involved in all the business, in all the leaks? Whenever there is a leak, they appear there! Spoelberch's family: Belgium's first fortune; the Boel family: Belgium's 14th fortune; the De Clercq family: Belgium's 16th fortune. How long will they benefit from this impunity and move from business to business without being worried? You are a supporter of the neoliberal theories of runoff: the enrichment of the rich will run over the entire population. But as Minister of Finance, your job is to enforce the law and get the money into the state coffers, and not into the pockets of those rich fraudsters!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u55	Mr. Minister, you have sent us data from the tax administration and the ISI. All this was interesting, but we did not question the FPS Finances, it was the government we interviewed. I agree with Mr. Deseyn. There is a credibility problem for the government. I'll take your word for it. I would like to believe the Minister of Justice who tells us that he is doing his best. But beyond words, these declarations of intent should be followed by concrete actions. We denounce the lack of resources available to the Department of Finance and the Department of Justice. Mr. Ducrame has announced a 10% increase in ISI services, but you have not said anything like that. In any case we will check in the budget adjustment, which you will present in the coming weeks, if these increases in means are well reflected in the budgets of the FPS Finance. You not only have a problem with means, you also have a problem with method. The majority agreed, particularly with regard to the insistence of the group leaders and Mrs Fonck, that the Committee on Finance should take up the follow-up to the parliamentary committee of inquiry which had been set up during the previous parliamentary term. It's good to start a follow-up, it's better than nothing, but at some point we'll have to give up the momentum to develop a concrete action plan with objectives to be achieved, measures to be implemented, means and, if possible, results. The CDH considers that you need to get the money you need in the pocket of the fraudsters and not in the pocket of the consumers via an increase in VAT.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u56	Minister, you're saying you haven't changed. That's the problem! Already in 2013, when my colleague asked for the Belgian State to take civil action, you did not reply. Today, we question you and you answer that it is not you but the Minister of Finance. Mr President, my group leader asked you to conduct the debate with the ministers meeting in order to have a joint response from the government. Today, what a cinema here! It is the Minister of Justice who comes to wash his hands and says that it is not up to him to answer, but to the Minister of Finance. Minister of Finance, you are here, answer! Will the Belgian State, yes or no, take civil action in this case? Your indignation will sound false if you do not carry this act. Answer today; do not do as Mr. Geens steals! Will you, yes or no, take civil action on behalf of the Belgian State? It's way too important. You have to take action rather than simply indignant yourself!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u57	Minister, we have heard many words and received many figures, but few concrete answers. The criticism is that there is no overall vision and a strategy to combat money laundering, and we therefore expected a little more answers. There are problems with COIV and there are problems with controls on banking institutions. Bpost himself says: is money laundering legislation being complied with? There are also problems in controlling the financing of terrorism and the like. We expect a real action plan for a comprehensive approach. The problems in the area of justice are an element of the problem that we are facing today. Minister, I call on you to make this an absolute priority and to really go for that reinforcement. Recently, 136 files were not sent to the public prosecutors. Well, if we do not get reinforcement soon, we will have questions here again next year, within five years or within ten years, because some of these things will be in danger of getting old or because the reasonable period will be over. And then we have another problem. Today we must act. There is sufficient legislation on this matter. Now it is time to make this a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u58	Ministers, I would simply like, on behalf of the MR, to express our satisfaction with your willingness to commit against...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u59	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u60	Look, we can see the image you want to give of this government and its ministers. A government that wants to let tax fraud go? Well, that's the image you want to give! The actions of this government are clear, and the action to be taken against tax evasion will be clear. We will go to the end, beyond your caricatures, because we consider tax fraud to be theft! We hate tax fraud, we go to the last cent of fraud. That makes Mrs. Onkelinx laugh. The debate on the substance with you is difficult, almost impossible on a number of dossiers, because you constantly caricature. Dogs bark, caravan passes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u61	Minister, you just said triumphantly that 193 files have been dealt with. Well, of those there were in March 2014, so under the previous government, 182 finished already. With these figures, you won't convince anyone. Then use other figures and perhaps answer the questions better. On 6 November, the Prime Minister was asked in this House how far the Cayman tax was going. Today you gave us the same identical answer, being that we are working on it. You're working on it, it's hard and so forth. In short, exactly the same answer after three months. I did not get an answer to the question whether you ordered the files that are still in France. Since you didn't answer, I assume you didn't give that order. Mr President, what bothers me most is the lack of indignation, which is very much in contrast to the indignation about the small social fraud of, for example, an unemployed person. When it comes to tax fraud, Minister, there is no indignation, neither of you nor of the Prime Minister nor of your Secretary of State. No outrage at this government. This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u62	Mr President, when I hear it like that, some of us are continuing to fail in the past. They act as if there is no ambitious policy paper from finance and justice ministers. They act as if there is no longer a Secretary of State to deal with tax fraud. I believe that it is every government's ambition to do better. The fact that this does not always happen to the opposition is inherent in the rules of the democratic game. Apparently, that hurts some very much. We would look better at the positive side of the matter, at what has been achieved, at the fact that more than 430 million euros have been collected in the meantime, for which we congratulate our tax authorities and the BBI. It is important that they are given sufficient resources, including in the future. Minister, there is a very strong payback effect there. We must develop the same power of control throughout the territory. We now have in France a list of more than 700 new names. I hope it has been requested by now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u63	Mr President, I did not intend to intervene in principle, but Mr Nollet referred to the matter. We have been in contact with you this morning for a proper settlement of the work and we have agreed that Minister Geens and Minister Van Overtveldt would respond together to the issue, which would have been good for the parliamentary debate. However, a very specific question has been asked to Minister Geens, in particular about the bourgeois-party situation in the case. Minister None explicitly referred to Minister Van Overtveldt in this respect, but the latter did not reply to the question. Mr President, in the light of the agreements we have made together on the current debate for a good parliamentary discussion, I would ask that the Minister of Finance be invited to answer that question. So what we agreed on this morning can happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u64	Mr Calvo, I have indeed done a minor procedure. With the agreement of the ministers concerned, I changed the order of questions and put them together, as you requested. For the rest, the questions have been asked within a particular system and almost within a certain format, and the answers have also been given. You are quite free to take the view that you have not received an adequate response. In that case, however, you must, as you know, continue on the parliamentary road. You can interact and use all kinds of other means to ensure that you get the answers you require. Mr Calvo, I will give you one minute's speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u65	Mr President, of course there are questions in Parliament that are not always answered. However, Minister None has made a very explicit reference to Minister Van Overtveldt. He reported that Minister Van Overtveldt would answer the question. However, Minister Van Overtveldt did not do so. He must do so now; he must answer the question clearly. Minister None has explicitly placed the ball in the camp of Minister Van Overtveldt.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u66	Mr Calvo, the questions have been asked and the answers have been given. I imagine you are not satisfied with the answers, but we shall leave it at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u67	Minister, if I have to give you one thing, it is that your performances in the press do not go unnoticed. It has even come to this point that when an article of yours is announced, the flashing lights will immediately turn on at CD&V, because within the hour you will respond to your statements. To talk about the content, I read that you are also referring to the aspect of justice in relation to the tax shift, on which you say with the man in the street, you are also coming among the people, even if it is at the baker's office on Sunday morning. The strange thing is that you derive from the sense of justice that you pick up from the bakery that a tax shift should consist of, firstly, reducing the burden on labour and increasing VAT, secondly, taxation of environmental pollution and, thirdly, the introduction of capital gains tax. I don't come to your bakery, but I belong to my bakery, people say something else; they say the opposite. This is confirmed by a Trends survey. More than 80% of the Flemings apparently consider that a just tax shift is equivalent to lower taxes on labour income, but higher taxes on wealth income. We, as socialists, are therefore opposed to an increase in VAT, for obvious reasons, which you, of course, also know. In our view, this again affects the taxpayers who are already heavily taxed on labour today. You know the figures: 10% of the persons with the lowest incomes spend 18% of their income on VAT and 10% of the persons with the highest incomes spend ocharme 4 % of their income on VAT. An increase in VAT is therefore particularly affected by low incomes. Minister, is the position you have expressed, namely that you are initially thinking of an increase in VAT, your personal position or a government position? If it is a government position, it is also clear today for CD&V. If that is not the government's position, I would like to hear from you why you want to re-focus things in your government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u68	Mr Vanvelthoven, what was the meaning of the statements to which you refer? I just wanted to be very simple, business, sec, objectively to put the parameters together, which will have to be put on the table in any case in a serious exercise of tax shift. I also note that international organisations such as the IMF, the OECD, the European Commission and, apparently, the National Bank now too, if I have heard it correctly during the afternoon, although I have not yet been able to verify it, in their reports and reports on Belgium, I am in favour of a shift in the burden of labour towards the burden on consumption, the environment and wealth, usually in that order as well. I would like to repeat once again the objective of a tax shift, which is often overlooked in the discussion, I have the impression. The aim is to reduce the very high, exorbitantly high burden on labour that we have in our country in order to ensure that citizens are left net more for their labour performance and thus gain purchasing power. And passing conditions are also created, by reducing the burden on labour, in order to achieve more job creation. We absolutely need that. We agree on that. Moreover, when we look at the objective figures, it appears that Belgium is absolutely at the top of the world in the various tables of the tax burden on labour. With regard to consumption, Belgium is somewhere in the middle and with regard to the burden on the environment and capital somewhere in the middle. Those are findings, facts, figures. Those aren't interpretations, they're not focussing. If you want to build something, you have to know what the building blocks are, what the mortar is and what the plan is. We need to map the situation. This was, and is, the only intention of my statements today, in the context of the very important subject of the tax shift, on which we in the government continue to talk and discuss, to give the building blocks, parameters and various elements and to prevent the discussion from being very narrowing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u69	Minister, I dispute that you have proposed this business. You have attached a value judgment to the three components of tax shift. Clearly, before increasing the tax on capital and environmental taxes, you have opted in the first place for higher VAT. That is a value judgment, so it was not a business, dry presentation of the facts. Moreover, what you always deliberately forget to say, even today when you are talking about a business presentation of the facts, is that our country is the only country in Europe and in the OECD where there is still no added value tax on shares. There's no such thing everywhere, only here it doesn't exist. If you want to engage in an objective debate, I understand that you are getting nervous now, with your shares, and if you want to play it business, you should also talk about it. I note that you are constantly forgetting that important element.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u70	Minister, this morning the National Bank presented its 2014 annual report, and this afternoon the Planning Bureau presented its economic outlook and the new forecasts for the forthcoming budgetary control. These are two important instruments for the work of the coming weeks. These documents provide an important insight into where we are today in economic and budgetary terms. On this basis, we can make a new assessment. From the report of the National Bank we learn a number of pertinent things that Mr Coene, the governor of the National Bank, has raised. In addition, he did not fail to make some political statements. That's how we know him. First of all, the high burden on labour remains a problem for our economic competitiveness, but also for our employment rate. The National Bank and Mr Coene now argue that they are strongly in favour of a tax shift, away from labour charges, to other sources of income such as consumption, eco-taxality and capital gains tax. Now even a liberal pleads for a tax shift. I heard him say, "The more tax shift, the better." I remember that from Coene as governor of the National Bank. Secondly, in addition to the high burden on labour, there is another important aspect: economic growth must go up. Today, the Federal Planning Office has said that growth expectations are being readjusted. Last year the growth forecast for 2015 was 1.5 %. Now the Federal Planning Office updates the growth forecast to 1%. I believe that this is an important finding in the light of the forthcoming budgetary control. We still have a high degree of debt. We must therefore work on spending and keep up the process of restructuring. We should certainly not be less sanitized, but we should continue the restructuring and budgetary work with a view to achieving a balanced budget. Thirdly, we need to invest in jobs and a higher employment rate. Minister, I have made a number of recommendations. What are your conclusions from the National Bank's recommendations? What are your conclusions from the revision of the growth expectations and new economic prospects of the Federal Planning Office? Are any further measures needed in view of the budgetary path?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u71	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, I will go very quickly, because I only have two minutes of speaking time, when you have actually presented subjects for 20 minutes. The report of the National Bank is an important document every year, even now. It calls for the restructuring of public finances in the context of the cost of ageing, the low employment rate, our high wage costs and so on. I do not need to stress that the government takes all these issues to heart. As far as the tax shift is concerned, I note that Mr Coene is in favour of this in his very own clear style. As I have just said, he calls for a reduction in the burden on labour to be offset by taxes on consumption, pollution and capital. As far as the Planning Bureau is concerned, unfortunately, I have not yet formally received the figures, which apparently already circulate in the press. I think I understand that it would be about a growth of 1%. That seems to me to be a realistic assessment. On the one hand, a number of international factors today weigh negatively on growth and, on the other hand, there is the fall in oil prices and the euro rate, which should give us an incentive. I think 1% is a realistic perspective. For the rest, I think that the Planning Bureau clearly indicates that, as far as the budget is concerned, the budget balance is on the right track, with a nominal deficit of 2.5 % for 2015, which is a substantial improvement over the 3.2 % for 2014. The structural balance, and you know that this is particularly important for the European assessment, is 2.2 %, which is an improvement of 0.6% compared to 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u72	Mr President, Minister, I think the recommendations will come in handy in the coming weeks. Thank you for monitoring and monitoring that budget path towards 2018. As I said earlier, the more tax shift, the better. We'll hold you to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u73	Mr President, Madam Minister, since 2002, the impact of green certificates on the electricity bill is no longer fully controlled. In terms of costs, we are now approaching amounts of about one billion, at Belgian level. Indeed, in the Walloon Region, nearly 500 million euros are used each year to deal with green certificates. In the Flemish and Brussels regions, several hundred million are also used. At the federal level, if all offshore wind turbines are installed, it is about 800 million. In short, adding up these amounts, green certificates impact the cost of electricity by about one billion, which is not negligible for consumers and businesses. Today, Het Laatste Nieuws refers to a VREG document stating that four electricity suppliers, EDF Luminus, Eni, Lampiris and others, would in any case increase the impact of green certificates of costs in Flanders, which would further increase the burden of such certificates. In Flanders, 13 to 21 euros per customer, or 21 million euros. It is believed that this mechanism exists in other regions of the country. Minister, what steps are you planning to take to stop these practices? In general, how do you intend to combat the explosion in the cost of green certificates?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your question. I was able to read the report of the Flemish regulator, VREG, dated 27 June 2014. I am therefore surprised at the conclusions mentioned in the press. In doing so, I would like to return to Caesar what belongs to Caesar. First of all, the VREG recalls that the federal authority is responsible for cost control. It concludes, then, that it is impossible for it to establish a clear comparison of the ability of suppliers to determine in real time whether or not they meet the quota obligations imposed on them with regard to the acquisition of a green certificate, whether on the market or by long-term contracts. Finally, it notes that it is rather the supplier's different procurement strategies for green certificates that directly influence the costs associated with these certificates, on the one hand, and the supplier's business strategies, on the other hand, its choice of business organisation, on the other, that influence the final cost that is passed on to the end user. VREG did not notice any fraud in this context. It was important to stress that. Apart from this, it must be borne in mind that suppliers can pass on, so far, the cost of fines charged to them on the basis of legislation, in addition to green certificates, because they would not have enough, depending on the quotas imposed on them, acquired from these certificates. It was already reported by CREG in 2010. Therefore, there was a legislative reaction, since the law of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market was amended in 2012 to address this situation. It is stated in Article 20quater that there will be a lump sum transaction cost that could be charged beyond the price of the green certificate by the supplier to the end user and that this transaction cost is fixed by the King by deliberate decree in the Council of Ministers. Seeing this information in yesterday's press, I asked my administration to prepare a draft royal decree in order to quickly implement this provision, which is intended to avoid the exaggerations that you pointed out in your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u75	Madam Minister, thank you for this very clear answer. Even if these practices are not illegal, you have rightly pointed out that they are unacceptable. I therefore encourage you, from a particular point of view, to implement this royal decree very quickly and, more broadly, to implement a policy aimed at keeping under control the explosion of green certificates and, therefore, the development of certain related energies. I am counting on you to implement this very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u76	The question was addressed to the Minister of Pensions, but Minister Marghem will respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u77	Mr President, Madam Minister, I have been warned that Mr Bacquelaine has been prevented and I thank you for responding in his place. I would like to ask you about a lack of clarity regarding the second pension pillar. Successive governments, as well as yours, have always encouraged the subscription of group insurance within companies, with all the tax advantages that accompany them. This interesting formula makes it possible to supplement the legal pension, in principle in complete safety, since a law guarantees a minimum return, i.e. 3.75% for personal contributions and 3.25% for employer contributions. However, insurers report that they are no longer in a position to guarantee these returns in view of the current socio-economic situation. This would mean that the employer will suffer the consequences and damage: it will have to compensate the difference between the insurer's coverage and the pension promise. That is a real problem. For workers, the situation is not gratifying either: can they still understand that their group insurance cannot guarantee the minimum rate laid down by law, while in 16 other countries, including the Netherlands, some pension funds reach high records and offer attractive returns? I see that this is a serious problem for the government, especially since you are advocating the development of the second pillar by assigning to it an increase in wages. Of course, you do not deny the existence of a problem since the agreements also specify that it is essential that the new commitments for supplementary pensions be insurable again. On the one hand, Mr Bacquelaine's spokesman said on 27 January: "Progress is on the way, but the social partners are currently discussing it, so it is too early to propose the measures taken in this area." Then, on February 8, the Director of the FEB said something else and appealed to you that there was no solution and that it was up to the Minister of Pensions to make decisions. Minister, what is the actual situation? Is it true that many insurers no longer use the guaranteed rates of return and move to a rate of 2.25% or 1.5%? What is Mr Bacquelaine planning on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u78	Thank you, Member, for your question, which confirms the willingness of the government and its Minister of Pensions, Daniel Bacquelaine, to whom I have the honour of replacing myself for the answer, to quickly find a solution to the problem of guaranteed performance on supplementary pension premiums. The problem is well identified and recognized. The statutory rate of return is currently 3.75 for personal contributions and 3.25 for employer contributions in defined contribution pension plans, you recalled. Insurers are no longer able to guarantee such returns given the continued decline in OLO interest rates in recent years, i.e. official linear bond rates. That is why the Minister of Pensions will formally invite, in the coming days, the National Labour Council to resume its discussions on a review of the performance guarantee. Following the various contacts he has had in recent weeks, he will propose to examine a number of assumptions allowing better account to be taken of the evolution of OLOs in the bond market, with the aim that an agreement be reached before the end of the first half of 2015. This is a fundamental issue with a view to the generalisation of the second pillar of pensions, which is one of the essential axes of pension reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u79	Madam Minister, thank you. I am pleased to see that Minister Bacquelaine is aware of the problem. It is essential to restore the confidence of our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u80	Mr Minister, yesterday the hearings in the Defence Committee ended. We have been given very useful information on what role Defence should play in the future. We have learned that this is a very complex task with many elements. Yesterday in committee, you announced that you would come a little later with your vision paper, not at Easter but earlier in the middle of the year. We think that's a good idea. Better a fully finished piece with which to work than half work with Easter. The reality is that after the Cold War, the geopolitical situation has changed, with wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. North Africa and the Middle East are very unstable. There is also the phenomenon of cyber attacks. Belgium, moreover, is below the NATO average when it comes to expenditure, and we will be the last of the platoons. Our armed forces create a lot of output compared to the money we put into it. That is also the reality. It is therefore important that we define our level of ambition. I understand that this will also be in your note. It is also important that this happens for the next decades. We need to know with what role, with how many components, with how many material, with how many men this happens. Yesterday I was amazed when I read in a weekly that the budget for Defence should be doubled in order to participate fully. Our party is not convinced of that at the moment. First of all, we want the level of ambition to be created in the long term in order to link it to the appropriate budgets. This is all inextricably linked. Minister, you look up to the savings. That is not nice, I understand, but what do you mean, in concrete terms, by saying that the budget should be doubled? In what time do you see that? Will you apply the budgetary provisions of the coalition agreement to try to reform the army and then cut it to allow it to grow?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u81	Mr Vandenput, allow me first to point out the timing of the strategic note. The coalition agreement asks me to present a strategic vision within six months. I'll do the same. Yesterday I tried to make clear to the committee which stages will follow. I will make a quantified proposal to the government at Easter with a general choice of defence for the future. Once the government that has chosen, I can develop a strategy in this direction. In a third phase, the intention is to draw up an implementation plan by September, against budgetisation, on the measures we will take to implement specifically that plan and also to take conservation measures for Defence for the next five years. As far as the budget is concerned, I have indeed noted a number of figures. I have referred mainly to the European average, which stands at 1.6 percent of GDP today. Countries similar to ours are around 1.3 %. I've indicated a direction. In the long term, if you have the coalition agreement, there will be the replacement of a number of important weapons systems. You will stand for a workable army in that order of magnitude. I gave this information title in the interview in question. An exact calculation will eventually be submitted to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u82	Mr President, Minister, I am pleased that you confirm that the government agreement will be implemented. I am also pleased that you explained the three steps in your note. Our party will actively contribute to that vision of the future. You can count on us to make that level of ambition realistic. Our international partners are asking us to do this and our citizens deserve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u83	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the airport dossier is a sensitive dossier, a difficult one and, above all, an important one. I should not tell you: it is about an added value of EUR 3 billion and nearly 40 000 jobs. Zaventem is therefore the economic engine of Flemish Brabant, of Flanders and, by extension, of this country. The Brussels PSS player Yvan Mayeur sees that differently. He actually put the airport, its employees and a number of neighbors on the bench, because he, in his own words, saw large planes above Brussels. What he's proposing is quite remarkable. He wants to shift all planes to the Ringroute, no more or less than a concentration above the Flemish North Rand, above the north of Brussels, exactly the political explosive that Ecolo-minister Durant cost her job twelve years ago. Another proposal is to move the airport. Professor Van de Voorde says that this makes Brussels half a desert. That is no more or no less than the PS model. Madam Secretary, we know very well where we're going with this. We have set out a course with which we absolutely want to ensure that we keep what is right, that we evaluate what Mr Wathelet has introduced and that we then establish a stable framework. I look forward to hearing your views on these proposals. How do you evaluate the concentration model above the Noordrand because of the PS? What is your vision on moving the airport? Do you share the Professor's opinion on this? Finally, will you set up a clear, stable framework that uses serious evaluations to adjust aviation policy and ensure that we give the airport the recognition it absolutely needs?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u84	As far as your question is concerned, I can answer very clearly: there is no prospect of any relocation of Brussels Airport's airport activities. In this complex dossier, I want to strike a balance between, on the one hand, the economic development of Brussels Airport and its direct and indirect jobs and, on the other hand, structural solutions that make it possible to minimise noise pollution. The rules on air safety must, of course, be taken into account. The work on the slopes will, of course, have an impact on the use of jobs. However, I must stress that these are exceptional works, which are carried out every 30 years. These are necessary maintenance work to ensure the safety of air traffic. In this respect, it should be noted that Belgocontrol and Brussels Airport have established a transparent communication with residents about these works. Yesterday they proposed a website on the subject which provides all the information about the jobs used and the reasons for it. Finally, I repeat that I have wanted and asked for serenity since my arrival. The debate must be removed from the emotional sphere, which cannot be achieved by sending demagogic ideas into the world. I therefore choose to look at the dossier objectively before taking any decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u85	Mr President, Minister, your answer proves that you have studied the dossier thoroughly and that you know where you are going. After all, we want to deal with the matter with caution. We want to ensure that there is a stable framework and that trust is given to the local residents and to the region, but also to people who want to invest in the airport pays off. We can see that today, too. The fact that DHL will provide 115 million euros and 200 new jobs means that the company believes in it. It is true that two things are very important to our group, namely that Zaventem can remain the economic engine that is the airport today and that the viability in Flemish Brabant is guaranteed. We can find a balance in this respect. It's possible. If you do so, we are behind you for 100 %.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u86	That concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u87	Pursuant to Article 270 (1) of the Programme Act of 24 December 2002, the Chamber of Members shall appoint one member of the Management Board of the Federal Health Knowledge Centre. Pursuant to Article 270, § 1, of the Programme Law of 24 December 2002, the Chamber shall appoint from among its members a member who shall sit on the Board of Directors of the Federal Centre of Expertise in Health Care. The representative of the Chamber shall sit in an advisory capacity. The representative of the Chamber shall sit with an advisory vote. At the plenary session of 19 January 2012, Ms Lieve Wierinck was appointed to perform this function. At the plenary session on 19 January 2012, Ms. Lieve Wierinck was appointed to this position. By letter dated 9 December 2014, the Federal Health Knowledge Centre asked to appoint a new member to replace Ms Lieve Wierinck who is no longer a member of the Chamber of Representatives. By letter dated December 9, 2014, the Federal Centre of Health Care Expertise requested the appointment of a new member to replace Ms. Lieve Wierinck, who was no longer a member of the House of Representatives. Mrs Anne Dedry is proposed by the Ecolo-Green Group. Mrs Anne Dedry is proposed by the Ecolo-Groen Group. Ms Maya Detiège was nominated by the sp.a. Ms Maya Detiège is proposed by the sp.a. group. Ms Catherine Fonck was nominated by the cdH group. Catherine Fonck is proposed by the cdH group. Ms Nathalie Muylle is proposed by the CD&V Group. Ms Nathalie Muylle is proposed by the CD&V Group. Mr Daniel Senesael is proposed by the PS Group; Mr Daniel Senesael was proposed by the PS Group. Mr Jan Vercammen was nominated by the N-VA Group. Mr Jan Vercammen was proposed by the N-VA Group. Since the number of candidates exceeds the number of mandates to be taken, we must take a vote. As the number of candidates exceeds the number of mandates to be filled, a vote should be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u88	Mr President, I am withdrawing my candidacy for the Kenniscentrum.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u89	We note, therefore, that Ms. Fonck withdrew her application. The ballots have already been distributed. Ballot papers have already been distributed. As the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. First we have to put together one or two desks of voters by drawing lots. Each bureau shall be composed of four members. I propose, however, that the last two Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today should be nominated for the vote. We must first draw lots from one or two offices of deputy returning officers, each composed of four members, who will be responsible for the counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members to the bureau this day to take the ballots. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Ladies Nawal Ben Hamou and Yoleen Van Camp are appointed to record the votes. Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou and Ms. Yoleen Van Camp were appointed to vote. I suggest that the ballots be counted in the conference room, in the presence of the voters. I propose that you proceed to the counting of the ballots in the Conference Hall, in the presence of the deputy returning officers. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. At the call of his name, each member is asked to submit his unsigned ballot in the ballot box, going up to the rostrum, from my left to my right. I would point out that only the ballot papers bearing the name of a candidate nominated for the vote are valid. In addition, the votes cast on more than one candidate have been invalid. I would remind you that only ballots that mention the name of a candidate presented before the vote are valid. Moreover, the votes cast in favour of more than one candidate are void. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call. Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? The vote is closed. I declare the ballot closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u90	At the request of the proposers, I propose the bill (Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Mr Benoit Hellings) concerning the ban on nuclear weapons in Belgium, No. 185/1, to be referred to the Defence Committee. At the request of the authors, I propose that you refer the bill to the National Defence Commission (MM. Wouter De Vriendt and Benoit Hellings) banning nuclear weapons in Belgium. This bill was previously sent to the United Committees for External Relations and for the Defence of the Netherlands. This proposal had previously been referred to the combined External Relations and National Defence Commissions. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] So shall it be. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u91	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 11 February 2015, I also propose that you consider: - the motion for a resolution by Mr Dirk Van der Maelen, Mr Alain Top, Mr Sébastien Pirlot, Mr Benoît Hellings, Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Mr Georges Dallemagne, Mr Marco Van Hees and Mr Olivier Maingain in order to instruct the Court of Auditors to examine the budgetary consequences of the possible replacement of the F-16 fighter aircraft (No. 885/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u92	- the motion for a resolution by Mr Georges Gilkinet, Mrs Evita Willaert, Mr Kristof Calvo and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mr Wouter De Vriendt on tackling social dumping (Doc. 886/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u93	Mr Georges Gilkinet and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, Mrs Meyrem Almaci, Mr Jean-Marc Nollet and Mr Kristof Calvo and Mrs Muriel Gerkens amending the Income Tax Code 1992 in order to introduce a system of penalties for financial intermediaries and tax consultants who are complicit in tax fraud (No. 890/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u94	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 11 February 2015, I also propose that you take into account: - the motion for a resolution by Mr Van den Broek, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Dirk Van der Maelen, Alain Top, Sébastien Pirlot, Benoît Hellings, Wouter De Vriendt, Georges Dallemagne, Marco Van Hees and Olivier Maingain to entrust the Court of Auditors with an inquiry into the budgetary implications of the possible replacement of F-16 combat aircraft (No 885/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u95	- the motion for a resolution by Mr Georges Gilkinet, Mrs Evita Willaert, MM. Kristof Calvo and Stefaan Van Hecke, Ms Muriel Gerkens and Mr Wouter De Vriendt to combat "social dumping" (No 886/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u96	- the bill of Messrs. Georges Gilkinet et Stefaan Van Hecke, Mme Meyrem Almaci, MM. Jean-Marc Nollet and Kristof Calvo and Mrs Muriel Gerkens amending the Income Tax Code 1992, aimed at creating a sanctions regime for financial intermediaries and tax advisers who are complicit in tax evasion (No 890/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u97	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u98	Mr President, I would like to ask the urgency of the motion for a resolution No. 885 to instruct the Court of Auditors to examine the budgetary implications of the possible replacement of the F-16 fighter aircraft. That purchase is the purchase of the century, it is about an amount of four to six billion euros. As in other countries, the authors of that resolution propose that, from the start, the Court of Auditors should be involved in the whole procedure, which may lead to the purchase of those aircraft. I would like the support of the Chamber to have that proposal dealt with urgently in the Committee on Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u99	Mr President, I can only agree with our colleague's proposal because, for several weeks in committee, Minister Vandeput has been insisting on two essential points: transparency on the one hand and respect for public funds on the other. In addition, he announced yesterday in committee that the strategic plan would be postponed. Consequently, the call for tenders for aircraft is no longer of the same urgency. I therefore propose that we ask an independent body that respects public money to position itself on this issue, which, I would remind you, amounts to EUR 5 billion in investment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u100	Mr President, the Labour Party wishes to support Mr Van der Maelen's request for urgency. Since the costs are so high, especially in the context in which you are going to get so much from the workers and servants of the country today, we really want the Chamber to be able to adopt the resolution today and to have a discussion about it. Mr Van der Maelen therefore receives the support of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u101	Mr President, our group is also a co-signator of this resolution. I believe that this exercise should be possible quickly given the budgetary impact of the possible renewal of the F-16s. We address this request to the government and the Court of Auditors. With Mr. Van der Maelen, I have tabled an amendment which makes it possible to request an eighth operative part of this resolution, it concerns the impact on industrial matters, on economic return and on employment in the event of the renewal of the F-16s. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for supporting the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u102	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law amending the Law of 17 January 2003 on the statute of the regulator of the Belgian postal and telecommunications sector, No. 875/1. The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law amending the Law of 17 January 2003 relating to the Statute of the Regulator of the Belgian Post and Telecommunications Sectors, No. 875/1. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, we must wait for the result of the vote we have just had. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u104	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u105	Stemmen 135 Voters Blanco of ongeldig 5 White or invalid Valid 130 Valables Perfect majority 66 Absolute majority Mrs. Anne Dedry received 12 votes. Mrs Anne Dedry obtained 12 votes. Mrs Maya Detiège received 10 votes. Maya Detiège won 10 votes. Mrs. Nathalie Muylle received 89 votes. Nathalie Muylle won 89 votes. Mr Daniel Senesael received 19 votes. Mr. Daniel Senesael won 19 votes. Mr Jan Vercammen received 0 votes. Mr. Jan Vercammen won 0 votes. As Mrs Nathalie Muylle received 89 votes, this is the absolute majority, she is appointed as a member of the Federal Health Knowledge Centre. Nathalie Muylle obtained 89 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, and was appointed as a member of the Federal Centre of Expertise in Health Care.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u106	These inquiries were developed in plenary session on 5 February 2015 These interviews were held at the Plenum meeting on 5 February 2015. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 016/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Ahmed Laaouej, Marco Van Hees et Peter Vanvelthoven; - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Meyrem Almaci and Mr Georges Gilkinet; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Veerle Wouters and by Messrs. Patrick Dewael, Denis Ducarme, Servais Verherstraeten et Hendrik Vuye. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 016/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Marco Van Hees and Mr Peter Vanvelthoven; - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Meyrem Almaci and Mr Georges Gilkinet; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Veerle Wouters and Mr Patrick Dewael, Mr Denis Ducarme, Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mr Hendrik Vuye. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u107	Mr President, I regret that the Minister of Finance is not here to hear what I have to say to him. I would like, in a few words, to recall why we are tabling this motion. We have asked the Minister of Finance about this permanent regularization of his services, in the greatest opacity, without a legal framework. We wondered about this, recalling that it dispossessed the parliament of its prerogatives. It is here that we must vote, according to the Constitution, not only on tax laws, but also on exceptions to tax laws. Clearly, the administrative services of the Minister of Finance, with his agreement, seem to arrogate this power, which is obviously a very bad signal both on the functioning of our institutions and on the fight against tax evasion. That is why we tabled a motion that I had the honour to sign with Messrs. Vanvelthoven and Van Hees calling for a definitive stop to this permanent system of tax regularisation. A second recommendation aims to support all initiatives that promote the exchange of tax information between States and strengthen the fight against tax fraud. The aim is to strengthen the legislation and departments of the Special Inspectorate for Taxes in charge of combating fraud and also to ensure that the fight against tax fraud is a priority for the Government, so that it can implement the 108 recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry aimed at combating major tax fraud. He must be able to track it through a dashboard. Finally, it is not too much to ask: could you make available to Parliament this famous internal circular which organizes a permanent regularization? We therefore give the majority and the government, through this motion, an opportunity to put the fight against tax fraud and financial crime at the heart of political priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u108	Mr President, for us this motion goes beyond the purely political aspect, it is also an important piece on which Parliament stands and what are the rights of the legislative power, which the government must control. The Minister of Finance said here last week that this circular does indeed exist. He said that it was necessary to apply the law in a uniform manner when taxpayers are asking for regularisation. So that is a circular letter for the application of the law, the law that we have approved here in the Chamber, the law that we have to check here in the Chamber. Last week I asked the Minister of Finance if we could get that letter. The Minister did not reply; I did not receive the letter last week. I then took the initiative to ask the President of Parliament if he would like to request the circular on behalf of Parliament. Mr President, you have asked the Legal Service for advice, you have asked the Legal Service if you are obliged to request the letter. I do not think that you should be obliged to ask for the letter. As President, without this being described anywhere, you should ensure that we are able to carry out our control properly, that we can properly control the government. Since today, a week after the Minister said that the circular letter exists, we still do not have access to the circular letter, I think that Parliament has a problem. I therefore believe that with the motion we tabled, we should make that problem clear and clear. We must let the government know from Parliament, over majority and opposition, that the letter of the circular must be delivered here. That's what the motion is about for me today. I understand that in the political game there is the simple motion to proceed to order of the day. But this is an issue, Mr President, which you have left behind, and which I hope the Chamber will not forget, because it is one of the essence of our control mission to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u109	Mr Vanvelthoven, I do not wish to open the debate, but you have received the advice of the Legal Service. The logic of the system is that, when you ask for the circular by interplay, when a motion is submitted to the sitting, I myself, as chairman, follow the majority of the sitting and not, after the vote on the simple motion, request the circular letter. I do not want to open the discussion, but I do follow the advice of the Legal Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u110	Mr President, I would like to answer that. Your interpretation would mean that the opposition here in Parliament can only request something if the majority agrees. That interpretation goes way too far. I put the question to the Minister, and I asked you whether you would give us the circular, regardless of the interplay even. I do not need a motion or a vote on the post-interplay motion to ask you to do so. As chairman of all of us, I asked you to request the letter of dispatch. After all, we all think it makes sense for us to have access to it. I don't even understand why we need to discuss it here. It is a fundamental right of every Member of Parliament. That fundamental right does not depend on a vote imposed by the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u111	As I said, I follow the advice of the Legal Service in the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u112	Mr President, in the course of the debate, we were able to see that, while our views differ on the assessment of the efforts made in the fight against tax fraud, everyone, including the chairman of the MR Group, expressed their support for a more effective fight against tax fraud. But we have to take action! That is what we proposed last week in the context of our inquiries on the regularisation system. We were denouncing its opacity. We were concerned about the ability to regularise funds at a lower cost and the criminal immunity of fraudsters, which is why we have tabled a recommendation which, if voted, would allow Members of Parliament to access the texts of this directive, which we still do not know, which makes it possible, today, to regularise fraudulent funds. It also aims to ensure that things go smoothly, i.e. to identify the origin of the regularised funds, as requested this morning by the President of the CTIF in an interview with the newspaper Le Soir, and to provide the services responsible for combating fraud with sufficient resources. If the majority fails to act, it may be considered to be complicit in these fraud mechanisms. It is not just a question of Mr Ducarme coming out loud from the top of the rostrum that "fraud is unacceptable and that we must give ourselves every means to counter it". At some point, we have to act. That is what we are asking with our motion for a recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u113	Mr. Chair, the issues at stake in this motion are of several kinds. First of all, pure and simple respect for the law. Penalties in tax matters are laid down in the Income Tax Code and its implementing decrees. Percentages are clearly indicated. In case of fraud, they amount to a minimum of 50%. However, we learn some administrative practices, endorsed by the minister, that depart from the statutory requirements. Respect for the law seems to me to be an important element. Beyond compliance with the law, compliance with the Constitution, which provides that all taxes shall be fixed according to the law. This is the principle of equal taxation. The Constitution also provides for the absence of tax privileges. However, it seems to me that this regularization introduces privileges. Finally, more fundamentally, the question of non-incitement to fraud arises. However, it seems to us that this new tax amnesty is a way of favouring it rather than fighting it. This refers to the discussion we had earlier with the Ministers of Finance and Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u114	Mr President, I will ask only one question. It's very simple. How can Parliament control the government – which is still one of its core tasks, in parallel with the legislative function – if it does not have at its disposal the instructions, the directives it gives to its administration, in particular through circulars?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, the motions have been explained. The simple motion takes precedence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u116	Mr President, you say that if the opposition motion is voted down on the circular, you will then no longer be able to give the circular as President of the Chamber. That's what you said. That's the legal department's argument. However, we do not need to get involved in this situation at all. If you, as President-in-Office of the Council, say that the letter must indeed be made available to Parliament, then there is no need for a vote at all. You can just, here and now, ensure transparency and put the letter on the table. You can do that now. Now you have to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u117	Mr President, you have actually turned things around. The letter sent to you was separate from the motion. We simply asked you, as President of the Chamber, to take measures to ensure that we have the directive. Now you say you can't give them, because there will be a vote. The moment you received the letter, there was no vote. The vote is now. At that time, you could not say that you could not give or ask for the directive. You are hiding behind the fact that we are voting on it now. In fact, the question is that as President of the Chamber, you simply ensure that the Chamber can work. You've taken that away from us now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u118	It is the legal service that referred to the vote, not me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u119	Mr President, the debate is a little off-road. In fact, it is at the heart of the matter that we ask for access to certain documents. It is probably not the intention to refuse access. However, it is wrong to do so, particularly by means of an interplay. During the previous legislature, I also requested access to certain documents. For that, I wrote to the Chancellery and the Board of Access to Administrative Documents. There has been a whole procedure. After a few months of begging, I found that too long too, I finally got my documents. So if we want to have access to the documents, there are other procedures. We must not call on the chairman. I didn't have to do that either.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u120	Mr President, we have already had this discussion in committee. It is the opposition's right to try to make an amalgamation of ending tax regularisation and what the Minister said here last week. These are people who spontaneously present themselves and wonder how they should proceed. Mr Vanvelthoven, you are insinuating that the penalty rates could be interpreted differently. According to you, some might benefit from a lower rate because they offered spontaneously after a certain date. The Minister said that a circular letter was published containing the necessary guidelines to ensure that the various regional managements were on the same lines. There's no secrets in that letter. On a proposal from Mrs Fonck, a meeting of the follow-up committee is scheduled after the crocus holiday in the presence of Secretary of State Sleurs. In the afternoon, the Planning Bureau will report on the state of play of the resolutions adopted on fraud in 2009. We're gonna take a look at it. There is no great secret attached to that letter, it is not about individual files. It's about the interpretation that should be uniform across the country. Your generalities, Mr Delpérée, must give the impression that you are a professor, but they are in no way concerned with an institutional approach to this dossier. If the committee meets after the crocus holiday, I am sure that it will prove that, apparently in order to achieve some kind of uniformity in the treatment by the various regional authorities, there is no illegality in the directive. After all, it would be very bad if instructions were given to go outside the law. Excuse me, but that's the impression you're getting because you're making an amalgamation of the end of tax regulation and what's going on right now. That's all there is to it at the time. You are taking advantage of the interpretation given in the press, which has nothing to do with regularising fraud or with tax amnesty.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to point out that there is really only room for explanations of vote here. We're not really reopening the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u122	Mr President, it is indeed not the time for major substantive debates and the issue is also relatively simple. I've tried to understand it, and you've confirmed it. You said that the letter cannot be made available if there is a vote here which actually says that the letter cannot be made available. No one should lose face. Our group is delighted to withdraw the motion if you now make it clear that you, as President of the Chamber, will make the circular available to the Finance Committee. Then we are prepared to withdraw our motion, there is no vote and there are no formal reasons for not doing so after that, but then you must commit yourself here and now as President of the Chamber for transparency in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u123	Mr President, we are talking about something essential here. The minister says that he has written a circular that standardizes matters and that he respects the law. He also says that he will not publish the letter, because that way he would give fraudsters a hint in one way or another, and he does not want to. Okay. However, it is this Chamber that has as its essential mission at least to verify it, and hopefully it is all right to know whether that letter of circular respects the una-via law that has been approved. Now you say that the Minister has said so and that it is. Well, if what the minister says is gospel, then we don't need a Parliament anymore and we shouldn't be sitting here together. In a democracy, what ministers say is by definition not a gospel. It is not a question of making that letter public, we do not ask for it. If necessary, the committee will meet in private and you will take all the necessary measures, but so that Members can at least verify compliance with the law on the basis of the Minister's words. If Parliament is no longer allowed to check whether the government respects the law, you must dissolve it. This is an essential task for Parliament. So make sure that tour letter gets here. If necessary, ensure that the letter is dealt with in a private meeting, so that it does not leak out, and that it is returned afterwards, but allows Parliament to check that the law is effectively respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u124	I am surprised by the reasoning developed by Mr. Van Rompuy. Spontaneous statements by repentant taxpayers have always existed. What the tax administration does, when taxpayers declare themselves spontaneously, is to apply the law, fix the amount of tax and then fix a sanction, an increase. This increase, where fraud has occurred, depends on two factors: first, the nature of the infringement, its seriousness and, secondly, its repetitive nature. It ranges from 50 to 200 per cent. The press explained that it is not 50% that is applied but much less. When asked about this specific point, the minister remained evasive. He didn't answer. That is why, if the tax administration applies the law as it is no longer its enforcement orders, there is no need for an internal circular! The tax administration has always done so. Therefore, why a circular and, above all, why don't you want to make this circular public, which would allow us to see if it is contrary to the law? If it is, we are facing a violation of the Constitution. Tax laws are voted here and exemptions from tax laws are also voted here by Parliament. That is the point of our request and that is why your reasoning, Mr Van Rompuy, is just in no way!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, the positions are well known. I propose that we proceed to the vote on the simple motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u126	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u127	While you are voting, I can tell you that I follow the advice of the Legal Service. It obliges me to follow the majority of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u128	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u129	Mr Calvo, I don't need too much. I replied to your question. Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u130	Yes 82 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 134 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u131	Mr Calvo, you asked a question and I answered it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u132	Mr President, I would like to ask for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u133	You've been abstaining? You can now motivate your abstention for two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u134	Mr President, I had the feeling that a consensus was beginning to emerge as to how Parliament could deal with the question of access. I hope, in any case, that you have noted that our group has withdrawn its intervention. As far as we are concerned, there is no formal basis to return to our demand for transparency. I would ask that this point be taken at least at the next meeting of the Conference of Presidents, so that we can discuss how we will deal with this further. I think that the question from different groups is very legitimate in order to be able to look at that letter in a certain way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u135	This will be done, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-12-54-plenair-ip031x.u136	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 26 February 2015. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 26 February 2015. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. I wish you an invigorating holiday. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 26 February 2015 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 26 February 2015, at 2.15 p.m.
