ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u1	Madam President, Minister, given the savings to be made in Defence, we have many questions about the decisions to close military quarters that could be made. The military unions have stated in the press that, according to them, these savings of one and a half billion euros in five years can only be made on the back of the staff, with the closure of some barracks on the key. I would like to draw your attention to the importance of the Spa barracks – which accommodates the twelfth and thirteenth lines – which is the only one in this category, namely infantry, in the province of Liège. It plays a certain role in the region, both socially and economically. I must emphasize the excellence of recruitment because of its local character. In addition, the soldiers who occupied him were equipped with new and inexpensive equipment. The events of the beginning of the year have also shown the usefulness of this barracks in this province. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. Can you tell us what your intentions are regarding the military barracks in Spa? Could you give us your opinion on the other barracks in the province of Liège and your vision for the future implementation of National Defence in that province? Finally, we know that the Saint-Laurent barracks are emptying its staff. What do you plan to save it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u2	Fernandez Fernandez, in accordance with the government agreement of 10 October, I will propose a strategic vision for the future of Defence around Easter, which will lead to a well-structured strategic plan that will address the issue of the closure of some barracks. I understand the concerns expressed throughout the country, but for the time being nothing has been decided. Our intention is not to close the barracks, but to strengthen the Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u3	Thank you for your brief answer. Since nothing has been decided, I will continue to worry. Therefore, Minister, I will remain very attentive, as will my group, to this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Stéphane Crusnière's 1413 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u5	Madam President, Minister, I would like to take stock with you of the means available to MPs to ensure the security of their missions. Indeed, it would seem, for example, that they do not have enough bulletproof vests. Minister, what basic security equipment is available to military police personnel? Is it different depending on whether MPs are on foot or on a two- or four-wheeled vehicle? Do MPs have enough bulletproof vests? Are they adapted to their different missions? Are new acquisitions planned in terms of security equipment?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u6	Mr President, Mr Pirlot, I understand your concern about the means available to military police officers. You will understand that, in the current security environment, I can hardly comment in detail on their equipment parts. Acquisitions are still planned for the basic maintenance of MPs, some in collaboration with the federal police. As for the number, the terms of use and the technical details, I can answer your question, but it would be preferable to do so at a committee meeting in camera. I can assure you, however, that every police officer on the street has a bulletproof vest at his disposal. If I understood correctly, that was your concern. We continue to assess the means available to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u7	Minister, thank you. I understand you can't say more about security matters. I do not hide from you that when I asked this question, I already knew part of the answer. It would indeed be interesting to address this issue in camera. As you know, there are some problems and I would like to discuss them with you, not to argue, but to improve the safety of the military in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u8	Minister, on 15 January 2015, De Tijd wrote that Belgian magistrates and intelligence and security services communicate with each other on terrorism issues through an ancient system, which is therefore regularly flattened. The BINII system was once developed by the Defense Department, but was never modernised. In the meantime, I have heard that a decision has been taken on the replacement of the system, and so my questions are a little out of date. Apparently, an investment in new laptops and equipment is planned. However, are there any additional costs to bring the communication system to an end? If yes, is there a budget available for the additional costs? In the meantime, how should magistrates and intelligence and security services communicate with each other? Is the current old system safe and fast enough? Which public services are connected to the network?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u9	Mr Top, the purchases launched in 2014 do indeed solve the problem of obsolete equipment and allow the BINII network to be integrated into the Secured Defence Network. The replacement of the existing equipment with the new equipment and the connection of additional users requires an additional effort from BINII maintenance staff. It concerns defence personnel, and the cost is also borne by the Defense Department. Until the full renewal of the network, the magistrates and intelligence and security services will continue to use the current BINII network. Despite the fact that the equipment is outdated, I am confirmed that it is still absolutely safe and allows safe and fast operation. Fast is of course a relative and subjective concept; probably it will never be fast enough. In any case, the safety is guaranteed. A large number of listed public services can be connected to the network if they express the need to do so; I will make the most comprehensive list available to the secretariat. Purchases for the infrastructure have been launched and deliveries will follow. The funds are entered in the budget. A budget is also provided for the staff. We hope to be able to roll that out as soon as possible. I'll make the list available to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u10	Thank you for the answer. I would like to express some concern. If the new system is installed and the various services are connected to it, I hope that the investment will be sufficient to support both initial installation and use in terms of maintenance and in terms of adjustments or modernisation. I would rather not see the criticism of the old system repeated for the new system.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u11	Madam President, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez has asked a similar question and I withdraw my question to allow her to ask her.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u12	That's good. I would like to appeal once again to common sense: do not give the same introduction over and over again. If everything has already been said, ask the questions immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u13	Madam President, Minister, since January 17, military personnel have been involved in securing certain buildings considered strategic and sensitive, in support of police services that do not appear to be able to ensure the police presence required to raise the level of threat to 3 on a scale of 4. Some 300 military personnel are now deployed in the national territory, sometimes at the request of some municipalities, it seems. This has an obvious budgetary impact on your department that is carrying out a task that is fortunately not normally its own. According to some press articles and statements made at the Justice, National Defence and Interior Commissions on January 21st, the salaries of members serving on this special mission would be borne by the Defence, which, on the other hand, would not pay the variable costs such as the bonuses that the military receives when they are in operation, as is the case at present. One of the unions estimates the cost of this specific deployment for a month at a total of EUR 1 million. Defence has announced its intention to focus these costs on the budget of the Internal CFO, your colleague Mr Jambon, on behalf of the fact that the army is temporarily carrying out a police mission, we all agree on this. Minister, can you tell me the total variable costs of this military deployment for a month - it was a month when I introduced my question, it has changed since then? Do you confirm that this amount will be covered by the Inland FPS? Has this decision already been made by the government? Do you confirm that the municipalities are submitting requests for military deployment? If so, by which channel do they do it? Via you or via the Internal FPS or another government body, perhaps the OCAM? Should the municipalities requesting such assistance be involved in the financing of this deployment on their territory? If so, for what amount?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u14	Mr Hellings, Mr Hellings has already remained brief. I shall confine myself to the questions. Although this question was tabled a month ago, on 23 January, the issue remains of course topical. What are the criteria for determining whether the deployment of soldiers in the streets should be extended? What is the state of play in the decision-making process at the moment? I would also like to know to what extent the military have already had to act, in the broadest sense of the word. How much and what kind of contact between soldiers and civilians has been registered and/or reported in the street image so far during the performance of the assignment? Can you give a full overview? Finally, when, how and with whom will the evaluation of military deployment take place on the streets?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u15	Madam President, I would like to associate my colleague Sébastien Pirlot with my question as he has had to withdraw his own on organizational matters. As we know, the use of military personnel in faction at certain sensitive sites is an immediate measure that is necessary in view of the exceptional situation, but in no way a structural solution, both in security and in the budget. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions in order to be able to evaluate this mechanism. Can you explain how your department and the Earth component are conducting these street faction missions? Is an overall evaluation of the scheme at the level of the OCAM and the municipalities concerned planned? How is the protocol that you and your colleague from the interior practically applicable? What is the timetable for this protocol? Is an end date for these missions planned? In the longer term, has the government's vision on this issue been clarified, both from the point of view of delegated missions and the legal framework and the parameters imposed? Do you intend to go further than what the current legislation allows the military? On what legal basis can the military now already patrol the streets of Antwerp and not only be in fact as in other cities and communes? Have military unions been consulted in this context? According to my information, the CGSP Defence has requested that, if the deployment of the military on the streets is to continue, a debate on compensation be held; I agree with the questions that have already been asked. Finally, this particular mission of the army also has a budgetary cost. Should Defence receive new budgets for such missions? To whom will this invoice be sent?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u16	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my question is not about evaluating the military's efforts; I think we can all be satisfied that these efforts are being made. My question concerns the pecuinary difference between the services provided by police officers and the military. It is a bit naive to assume that the extra effort of military will be limited in time or will soon be over. There is therefore a need for a protocol so that we can outsource certain tasks to the defence sector for a longer period of time. My question is therefore about the pecuinary difference between the two activities and the drawing up of a protocol between Defence and Home Affairs in order to be able to deal with such tasks in an equal way in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u17	Madam President, Minister, I have tabled three questions on the subject and will put them all together. I've arranged that with my colleague, Mr Pirlot. I will delete the introduction with the comments made by the trade union on remuneration and immediately turn to the questions. Can you confirm that military deployment on the street costs about 1.5 million euros for a month? How big is the pay gap between military and police? How big is the difference in contributions between the two? Are military personnel deployed for security orders from non-vulnerable buildings and locations due to the pay gap? Since the submission of my question, the government has extended the measure on the threat level for another two weeks. So the military stays on the streets even longer. Has consultations already been held between the relevant ministers and the trade unions? What is the state of the social dialogue? Finally, the trade unions call for an evaluation of remuneration after the expiry of the first month. Are you prepared to talk about the pay gap and possibly get rid of it? So much for my first set of questions. I'll come to my second series. In your interview in The Seventh Day of 8 February 2015, you stated that the additional security in our country is necessary and was, even when the threat level drops to level 2. You added that you cannot rule out the possibility that soldiers will continue to carry out that task. In my opinion, these are remarkable statements, especially since a week before, in an interview in De Zondag, you stated that you are not in favour of the daily deployment of soldiers in the streets. After the mayor of Antwerp said that he would keep the military on the streets, your cabinet nuded the statements of the day before as follows: "The minister is ideologically not opposed to the permanent deployment of soldiers." In the Seventh Day, you stressed that additional support is still needed in some places, even when the threat level drops. Do you still think it is necessary to use military forces in certain places if the OCAD decides to bring the threat level back to level 2 at all locations? The OCAD works with national security specialists. Don't you question their expertise by saying that a lower level of threat requires additional support? You are in favour of additional support, but you are not in favour of who should take on this task. Given the difference of views between the interview in the Seventh Day and that in the Sunday, could you perhaps clarify your position on the deployment of soldiers in the streets? My last set of questions were also submitted before the extension of the threat level 3. I believe I have heard that, one month after the threat level was raised, the OCAD would carry out an evaluation according to the protocol. Has that evaluation taken place yet? If so, what are the conclusions of the evaluation? Can the evaluation be communicated to the members of the committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u18	Madam President, I apologize for my lateness. The introduction has already been given by my fellow Members, and I shall now turn to my questions. Minister, we have read in the media that there is some concern in the trade unions, because there has been no consultation in advance. Is that message correct? Has the new extension also been discussed? I hope that is the case. Secondly, what was the cost of military deployment so far? Thirdly, how do you explain and justify the difference in remuneration between military and police officers carrying out the same assignment? I believe that this is essential. Fourthly, do you want to align the wages of military personnel deployed for security orders with those of police officers? Finally, have you planned or had discussions on this matter with the Minister of the Interior?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u19	Mr Maingain is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u20	Madam President, Minister, five weeks ago after the introduction of this system, which was to be exceptional. Our group did not object to this idea and felt that, in relation to this exceptional situation, the presence of military personnel in front of certain sensitive places was justified. This measure was linked to level 3 of the OCAM threat. However, we seem to be moving towards a form of trivialization of the presence of the military on the street. Several members of your Government believe that this mechanism could remain in place in the long term. Your statements go in the opposite direction. I therefore do not see very well what the government's policy is in this area. I would also like to know your assessment of the effectiveness of this mechanism. How could it have been useful? Do you have any specific evidence to assess this effectiveness? What is the scale of the scheme? Has it evolved and will it evolve over time? As I understand it, the decision was made to extend it until March 9 and perhaps beyond. Is it still linked to the level of threat? Is there an automatic link between level 3 of the threat and the installation of a device? Could it be deployed independently of this level of threat? One hears in particular the mayor of Antwerp making calls from the foot in this direction. On the other hand, I would like to ask you about the cost to Defence. Of course, it's a boon for the government's budget. The use of military personnel is less expensive than the use of police officers. The fear is that this device will continue. Is this not becoming a constraint on foreign operations? Today, as many soldiers are deployed in Belgium as abroad - 385 against 300 in the country. Is this not a constraint for you on important international issues? We moved from 1,200 troops deployed a short time ago to only 385. Is this not affecting our external capacity as a contributor to international security? Does not the long-term presence of these military personnel have an anxious impact on the population, who says that if there are military personnel, it is that the situation continues to be serious? OCAM extended Level 3 but did so as a precaution because there was no specific element regarding a clear threat, which is a first. It is known that OCAM is under threat of politicization of its security levels. Minister, I would have liked to hear from you about all this and the long-term prospects for the presence of military personnel on our streets.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u21	Madam President, I would like to thank the honourable Members for their questions. First of all, I should like to mention that I have already answered a lot of questions. Nevertheless, I will try to answer all the questions today. If you are still hungry, please let me know, and I would still like to add, although I repeat that in the Joint Committee on the Interior and Justice of 21 January I have already answered a lot of questions and responded to many comments. The commitment of the military in support of the Federal Police in the fight against the terrorist threat was decided by the executive, on the basis of article 167, paragraph 1, paragraph 2, of the Constitution, under the Act of 20 May 1994 on the periods and positions of the military members of the reserve framework and on the implementation and condition of the armed forces and the Royal Decree of 6 July 1994 on the determination of the forms of operational engagement, military assistance and support and preparatory activities for the implementation of the armed forces. This commitment is governed by provisions contained in the Police Function Act (arts. 7/5, 37 and 38). The total fixed costs of this military deployment for the period from 17 January to 23 February 2015 amount to €0.095 million. The variable costs for the same period amount to €1.851 million. The Memorandum of Understanding on Defence Support to Integrated Police Services for Monitoring Missions provides that the Interior shall cover invoices from the Defence for variable costs incurred in the implementation of its personnel and equipment. Variable costs are the additional allowances and allowances paid to staff, as well as the costs of consumption and maintenance of equipment. The support will therefore have no impact on my department's budget. In other words, since the Interior has requested the support of the military, no invoices will be sent to the cities and municipalities concerned. There will therefore be no invoice for the cities and municipalities concerned. This is a support to the federal police, requested by the Department of the Interior. Defence has deployed military personnel in support of the federal police. Questions relating to the procedures for requesting military deployment and financial interventions by the municipalities are to be asked of the Internal FPS. I would point out, however, that the protocol under which we are working has been approved by the entire government. This is a question from Mr De Vriendt about the contacts between the military during their mission in the street, and the citizens are aware that they can be divided into a number of categories. It is primarily about intelligence gathering and observation of military operatives by citizens, inter alia, by expressing a great deal of interest in obtaining information about the number of military personnel deployed in a particular zone, the hours of redemption, the material and so on. It is also about the detection of suspicious persons by military personnel. Almost daily suspicious persons and vehicles are passed on in Brussels, Antwerp and Liège. You remember a few weeks ago, there were quite a few reports of suspicious cars where explosives were also detected effectively. Well, that happens because of such reports. It is usually about suspicious behaviors and suspicious persons or vehicles about which our soldiers are briefed in the morning. There are also questions from civilians to military intervention, as if they were in function as police. For example, a taxi driver asked to intervene after a dispute with one of his clients, which, although that would be terrifying, is not the competence of our military. Five negative reactions from citizens have been reported throughout the period and three hundred men deployed. In addition, there are many positive reactions from the civilian community to our military. I've already told you that in the media. For example, letters of thanks were issued to our military, both by adults and children. In the meantime it is also known that it is not forbidden to offer them a cup of soup on cold days. As the police are responsible for possible follow-up actions, a number of interactions for further follow-up were passed on to the local police. The positive reactions of the civilian population and the feedback from the police on a positive identification of terrorist suspects or criminals, passed on by our military, provide a boost in motivation and a sense of appreciation for the work done by the civilian community. The protocol between the Ministry of the Interior and the Defence was signed on 17 January 2015 for an indefinite period, but is only applicable when the level of threat is raised at level 3. Currently, the recruitment of military personnel is being extended and a new threat assessment will be carried out by the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis (OCAM) on 9 March 2015. The OCAM, which includes information from the State Security Service, the General Intelligence and Security Service (SGRS) and the federal and local police, carries out the strategic assessment of terrorist and extremist threats against Belgium on an ongoing basis. For the record, we do not decide on the level of threat. Maybe it's a good idea for me to explain the way the OCAD works. In fact, the OCAD makes specific evaluations of specific locations and/or individuals. It is the OCAD that decides, in view of the various assessments it makes here and there and in view of the expected threat, whether or not to maintain the threat level 3. At that time it was possible to transfer this decision to the political level, but today it remains with the OCAD. That's how people work. I will now clarify to Mr Top about his question on incompetences that might be detectable in different interviews. Mr Top, you probably also know a little bit about how media works. Not everything from a full interview will be published. If I said at the time in De Zondag that I am not in favour of a continuous deployment of soldiers on the streets, then I am referring to two things. Firstly, with regard to our general internal security, we must provide the necessary structural resources. Secondly, today we do not carry out police duties, let that be clear; we have only taken over static surveillance as part of police duties. If this task is to be carried out in the longer term, a number of legal and financial questions will have to be resolved. I have never said that this would not be possible for ideological reasons, but I have said that it cannot be done without reason. Legally, that's not possible today. You may review all my statements in the media on this matter. I have always said that this cannot just be done, but that it needs to be looked at carefully. We are now working on the basis of a protocol for as long as necessary. As you say, a number of things must indeed be properly regulated if we are to see this task as a permanent task. In doing so, I replied to the questions that had not been answered and I continued with what was prepared. The military are put in place at the request of the police, depending on the threat analysis. It is evident that the timing aspect at more expensive hours, i.e. at night or at weekends and so on, does not play a role in determining the threat level. There are therefore no financial reasons why certain places should or should not be allocated to the Defense Department to take charge of the surveillance there. For security reasons it is not possible to provide a detailed overview of the planning of military deployment, you will understand. I am prepared, Madam President, to carry out an evaluation behind closed doors, but you will understand that it is difficult for me to release those lists. There are betting peaks during working hours and there are evening, night and weekend shifts. The missions carried out by the on-street military are positively evaluated by both the staff of the guarded facilities and the police. Evaluation meetings are held on a regular basis between the various departments. The evaluation of implementation is ongoing. The observations of the military are transmitted immediately to the police services, which are responsible for the follow-up to these observations. In recent days, the press has referred to arrests or interventions directly related to observations by military factions, as I have already explained. A political evaluation was carried out by the National Security Council, which met for the first time two weeks ago. There too it has been said that as long as the current threat level is maintained, the military will be kept on the streets. A new evaluation will follow. The wages of military and police officers are difficult to compare. Contrary to what is claimed, the military do not carry out police missions. I have always said that there must be equal pay in relation to equal tasks. That's obvious. However, it is not the case that the military carry out a specific police mission; they only support the police for static surveillance orders. Of course, they do not stand on one square meter and sometimes deviate ten meters, but that does not correspond to patrolling, although it is sometimes claimed. The military are therefore a support to the police and only carry out security orders. Police and military are also part of two separate departments with different statutes which are very difficult to compare. It is therefore not the intention at present to align the wages of the military who are employed with those of the police officers. When we open that box, we are talking about the total military status. Today, our military personnel are deployed according to the statute and according to the agreements of factor 2 on a scale of 5, which calculates fees based on the threat level and that's more. They are employed according to their statute on basis 5. We consider this to be an operation and that is how they work here and abroad. If we start to change that, a lot will have to change. The members of the Defence Department who perform in the implementation of the Protocol Agreement will therefore remain subject to the administrative, financial and disciplinary status. They shall receive the allowances and allowances provided for in their Staff Regulations. Since this is about the readiness and use of the armed forces, this operation is not part of the syndical consultation. The syndicate is therefore not, in principle, consulted on the stakes. That is the principle: the commitment is not part of the syndical consultation. Nevertheless, as I announced on 21 January, the Deputy Chief of Staff Operations and Training, General Compernol, member of the Defence Staff, held consultations with the trade unions on 20 January 2015 at the start of the operation. On Friday, we decided to start the operation. It didn't work out on Monday, but on Tuesday, the deputy chief of staff sat with the unions on my behalf. As far as the extensions are concerned, no agreements have been reached with the unions, but they now know that my door is open. If they have any questions, they can contact me. As reported on January 21 before the combined Justice, National Defence and Interior, General Affairs and Public Service Commissions, military personnel engaged in support of the police services in the context of level 3 counter-terrorism measures are only assigned a static surveillance mission. This is also the case in Antwerp. The movement of military personnel between the various positions to which they are assigned should not be considered as a patrol mission. In Antwerp, members travel on foot rather than by vehicle because of the very short distance between the different positions. In no case, however, do they patrol the streets of the city. That is the case everywhere; their only move is the distance between their vehicle and their mail. However, it is not excluded that a team patrolled on a point-by-point basis around a building under its protection, but this is an exception. Let me give you the example of the American embassy, for which there is a quasi private drove, and where it may belong to their task to go on the other side of the drove to see what is going on there. For all questions concerning the deployment of police officers, you are, of course, kindly requested to address them to my colleague, the Minister of the Interior. The monthly evaluation of the deployment of Defence, provided for in Article 2 of the Protocol Agreement on Defence Support to the Integrated Police for Security Orders, is carried out by the Government on the basis of an opinion formulated by the National Security Council, as I have already said. The National Security Council met two weeks ago following the OCAD's assessment of the threat. The National Security Council is called together on request and under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister. On the conclusions of the first evaluation on the deployment of Defence, discussed at the first meeting of the National Security Council on 9 February 2015, as already mentioned, you are invited to pass on your questions to its President, who is the Prime Minister. However, I can confirm that we have looked at the positive and negative aspects and have generally evaluated the commitment as positive. I would like to stress once again that this is a matter of support that is, in principle, temporary. Mr Top, you had a question about the evolution of threat level 3 to threat level 2. The OCAD shall carry out the evaluation of specific locations and persons. Even though the threat falls to level 2, it will still be maintained for a number of locations level 3. I am thinking of some embassies that have known level 3 for years and where until today the security orders have always been carried out by the police; there is always static surveillance. Let me give you the example of the American embassy where, before the general threat level 3 was reached, static police surveillance was already in place. It is said that there is a need for additional security, even in the future. That's all there is to it. I have not spoken out about who exactly needs to ensure security, but I just wanted to say that, even if we return to a general threat level 2, there will still be locations where there will be an increased threat level and where there should be additional security. If, in my capacity as Minister of Defence, I am asked whether I can intervene or at that time provide support, then I will study that question as well as all the questions I study in that sense. I also confirm what I have always said: the moment the nation needs Defense, Defense will be ready to serve the nation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u22	Minister, you have not answered my question as to which body the communes are submitting their request for military intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u23	It's in the interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u24	Minister, that is an excellent answer! Indeed, patrolling in public with weapons in public space, ensuring the security of public space is the task of the police, the local police and the federal police, and this must remain so. I understand that the memorandum of understanding you have signed with your colleague from the Interior is temporary and depends on alert level 3. This level 3 should not continue unless there is a real and effective threat. This level 3 on which the military presence depends must be temporary. You answered in that regard. That's reassuring. But the task of public space security lies with the police and not with the army, including patrols. In this regard, you said that the army sometimes patrolled around the American embassy. It's not a private space. It is indeed a public space which, probably, has been privatized by the US government. As far as your assessment of this is concerned, I understand that it is positive. In my personal capacity, I discuss with the soldiers on patrol in Brussels where I live. I have to say, they're doing their job nicely. They are extremely friendly people who perform a difficult and stressful function. That said, military presence in public space is not desirable. The presence of weapons in public space, in particular firearms and automatic machine guns, can only be a source of stress for the population. This is not the place of these weapons. These must be either on the ground abroad or in the barracks in Belgium. Recent cases at Verviers have shown that the effectiveness of police services is linked to discretion. However, the presence of military personnel on site does not contribute to this discretion. It is necessary to rely on the expertise and competence of the police to fight terror. The presence of soldiers on the street does not contribute to efficiency, because of this lack of discretion. Finally, you replied that you could not provide us with the names of the sites affected by the level 3 threat and the military presence. This is perfectly understandable for security reasons. However, we have a committee to monitor missions abroad, which meets in camera. We could schedule a meeting to share this information. I hope that you will do so, because the presence of the military on the street is undeniably linked to participation in the international coalition in Iraq, which we are usually discussing in this monitoring committee. I therefore hope that, in the context of the in camera, you will inform us of the street deployment plan. In this committee, we have committed ourselves to keeping the secret for obvious security reasons, starting with that of our military. In any case, I hope that you will be able to give us this map, as you have given us the map of ISIS's presence on Iraqi territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u25	Minister, thank you for the accuracy of some of your answers, particularly in terms of cost. As you know, in the fight against terrorism and radicalism, the PS wants short-, medium- and long-term measures. The use of military personnel in faction at certain sensitive sites is an immediate and necessary measure. However, this is not a solution in itself, both in terms of security and budget. The numbers you gave us proved it. For us, the security of goods and citizens must, in the first place, be ensured – and I join my colleague – by the police and intelligence services. The use of the army can only be an exceptional solution, which in no way conceals the real problem. I am referring to the lack of resources within the federal police and police areas, which sometimes include sites sensitive to exceptional situations such as the one we are going through.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u26	Firstly, for me, it was mainly about the pecuinary system and its future. Secondly, I believe it is necessary to look beyond this operation for legislation when military forces can be deployed, so that you can intervene immediately. The allocation of the right costs is also important. Today, everything falls to the federal level, while sometimes it concerns tasks that should be carried out by local authorities. This should be looked at anyway. I would also like to draw your attention to your predecessor, Minister. You know we sort out the accounts from time to time. One of the accounts that we checked with your predecessor, Mr Flahaut, was those of the personnel costs of Defense that were passed on through a special account, which were not in the Defence budget, but were billed to third parties. These were mainly NATO surveillance missions or European summits and so on. You will remember that, some seven years ago, we found a difference of EUR 262 million. In short, there was an important difference between the costs that were incurred and the costs that were passed on to another department or recovered from Europe. In such cases, however, it is easy to say that those people of Defence are no longer on our payroll and are therefore excluded from the budget, which must be compensated. I would just like to point out to you, Minister, that you should be careful with that. However, all costs that are not included in your budget and the costs that are passed on must be of the same order of magnitude. The EUR 262 million, moreover, led to quite a riot in the government at the time, leading, among other things, to budgetary control.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u27	I would like to talk about the technical handling. We bill to the Home Office, and then those costs are settled through variable credits. The problem will therefore be to increase the variable appropriations so that the costs we incur are effectively compensated. This is technically okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u28	(...) the actual costs?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u29	The costs are made by the Department of Defense. We invoice them, in quotes, and the amount is credited to the variable credits. That's how it usually happens.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u30	I just wanted to warn you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u31	Thank you for the warning.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for the clarification. A number of questions have already been asked by my fellow Members, but I am interested in your opinion. Of course, the interviews in the media do not reflect everything you have said. Here, of course, you can explain all this to the committee members. Do I understand correctly that you only support the deployment of military forces at threat level 3 or at those specific places at threat level 2? Are you saying that you are in favour of adapting the legal provisions in order to be able to deploy military forces?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u33	The last thing I said was the first thing I said. If our nation calls on Defense, then Defense will be ready. I am therefore in favour of providing support in specific situations if requested, if that is legally possible and if it is technically properly regulated. At the time, I did not say more or less than that when we go back to threat level 2 there will still be locations where additional security is possible due to threat level 3. I have not spoken out about who should ultimately carry it out and in what way. I do not entirely agree with Mr Hellings. We provide support to the police and the police can carry out their tasks more efficiently by taking over some of the static surveillance orders so that the police can carry out the effective police duties. Is that a situation that should be permanent? This is a debate that needs to be held at a broader level within the government. I can only say that, at the time when it is legally possible, we are at the service of the nation. That's basically what it's all about. A long story short: if there is a question for the Defense Department to provide support and carry out that kind of tasks, then we need to see if we can. I'm willing to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u34	According to the legal rules that exist today. However, you do not express any opinion on possible changes to the legal rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u35	I am not talking about a possible amendment of legal rules. I note that when I travel to France or Italy, I also see soldiers there, whether armed or not, as they stand here today. Here there is also a specific threat level. However, there are also soldiers present and visible in the street. I don't have a problem with that personally. I also confirmed that for the VTM camera.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u36	Thank you, Minister. Mr Minister, I now come to my second question. In your reply, you pointed out the remuneration. You say that there is a difference between the wages of the military and policemen. We know that, the trade unions have also asked for this, as have several members of the committee. You refer to the various tasks and tasks of the military. You're saying it's specifically static surveillance orders. I can still follow you on that, but I find the following strange. At some point, as you motivate, the threat level will fall to level 2 and be maintained for specific places at level 3. As an example, you mention the embassies, where until a short time ago police officers carried out the static security orders. However, there remains a difference between the remuneration of the police officers who carried out the static security orders so far and the military. As far as I know, there is still a dispute over these assignments and about the difference in pay.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u37	Mr Top, I myself asked for a study on policemen's wages, including all the supplements they can get, compared to the wages of the military who are now carrying out that task. That is hardly comparable now, and that is why it is being prepared for me. I don't have a full view of that today. In globo I can say that they are still satisfied with the supplements that are being awarded. The fact that the trade unions are concerned is, of course, their role. However, I cannot answer specific wage questions today. However, I would like to say that this is a different task. We carry out this task according to our system, according to the military status, and we work within that framework. If we open this discussion, then we really need to have a very big discussion, and I do not know if this is an ideal reason for doing so. I asked for this study because today I cannot confirm or deny that there would be substantial differences, purely pecuniary, between what a police officer and a military officer deserves. It is also a fact that a military in operation is continuously available. The number of hours available therefore differs from the police status, which seems to me to be quite obvious. A military operation is basically available to his commander 24 hours a day.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u38	That's right. As a preliminary conclusion, Minister, it is necessary to clarify the difference in remuneration and specific tasks such as the use of police officers or military at embassies in order to justify this to the committee as well as the trade unions and the people on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u39	Mr Top, I will say it again. To be honest, a police officer who has a police degree and performs a static surveillance mission actually works a little below his level. He gets to do identifications and research work and so on. People of Defense who are trained for force protection or an assignment as infantryman or whatever on the ground are also carrying out an assignment that is partly below their capabilities today. At that level, it's about the same. We also have people who could be trained for a number of police tasks, but that is not the intention. It's not supposed to touch this either. That must be very clear. That's what I wanted to say. If we are asked, due to capacity problems with the police, to support the police, I will look into that question. In principle, however, I am prepared to do so. That is the general principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u40	I note, Minister, that a positive evaluation of the military's efforts has been carried out so far. As far as remuneration is concerned, I agree with the principle of equal responsibilities and contracts, equal remuneration. The Statute is clear in this respect today. However, if we look at the tasks they are carrying out on the ground today, if I am not a specialist, then there are no major differences between a policeman and a military man standing in front of a building. That's the image people see. I therefore understand the question of the military as to why someone who does the same work is being paid more. I understand that you do not want to look at the whole statute for this specific situation, but if this practice is to become permanent in the long term, we must also look at this issue from the military status and remuneration. People want equal pay for equal work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u41	Again, I cannot confirm or deny today that there are major differences. It shouldn't be watched by the hour. What matters is what they have left at the end of the month. That is a very important question that we must answer first. The problem has been looked at, but it is not easy. With us it is still quite simple, but with the police it is very difficult to draw a line in the system of premiums and make a comparison. Are they equal or not equal tasks? The security mission is the same as a police officer on the scene, but today two officers have to go out together. In the past, in the days of the CCC, a cop and a soldier went out together. Then one is effectively together in the same way on the road. From the first line one hears the differences. They can be large, but we are dealing with totally different statutes. First, I want to know if there are any effective differences. In the next step we will see how we can adapt a sleeve to that. I am convinced that we must work within our statute today and that we must apply those rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u42	Mr. Secretary, I understand from your answer that you want the comparison to be made...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u43	To answer at least the question of whether there is, yes or no, a big pecuinaire difference. However, it will always be difficult to compare, because at the time our soldiers are considered to be in operation they are basically available for 24 hours and build up no recovery, unlike a police officer working overtime. That's a first difficult difference. In addition, the two also dealt with a number of charges in a different way. It's a very difficult equation. We haven't figured it out yet, but we're working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u44	I'm looking forward to that study.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answers. If I can hear you well, we must expect and get used to the presence of soldiers in our long-term streets. You indicate that this is not shocking in Italy or France and that on some specific sites the presence of military personnel is envisaged in the long term. Of course, you say that the decision is not made.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u46	Mr Dallemagne, I have expressed my own opinion. This is different from a government statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u47	Your own feeling is important in your capacity as Minister of Defence, since you are the one who frees these resources. If there was a reluctance on your part, it would complicate things! We also hear other voices in the government that go in the same direction. I quoted the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the mayor of Antwerp. Thus, a series of political figures are moving in this direction. Politically, it's important! We do not have this habit in Belgium. If there are habits in other countries, it is a real cultural change for us. Personally, I think the greatest caution is to be exercised. Indeed, when advocating this type of policy, it is important to be very sparing. I repeat, I have been able to understand the government's position for a particular period of crisis, but one must consider the fact of constantly meeting on the street soldiers heavily armed with very impressive FAL rifles. These very good weapons can generate an anxiety that must be cared for. The evaluation is positive. A number of elements are consistent in this area. However, there are also a number of people – I can see – including children, who are now concerned about the evolution of the situation and who take these elements as symptoms of a change in the situation, while the OCAM recalled that today no objective factual element can link the level of the threat to a particular concern. The level of threat was left at Level 3 for precautionary reasons. So first of all, I urge that we be careful and sparing. I urge you in this area to exercise extreme caution not to make the exercise banal, but to keep it exceptional, such as the one we know today. A second point is that you say it is essential to operate on a legal basis, which must, however, evolve. As we live in a rule of law, the presence of military personnel in Belgium is not an anomalous situation. In my view, it is still important to check this legal basis and possibly to present it to Parliament quickly in order to consolidate it. I am concerned that at present this legal basis would be fragile and that another one should be developed to make this military presence legally sound. Thirdly, the budgetary point: roughly 2 million over 5 weeks, which means 20 to 25 million euros per year. This is important and it will be necessary to examine, in relation to all the budgetary constraints we have, whether this position is sustainable. You failed to respond to the constraints of external operations. In fact, we have 300 soldiers on the streets; yet when it comes to deploying so many soldiers for an operation abroad, it takes almost five times more soldiers ready to do so. Is this the same ratio in the circumstances we are experiencing today? If so, this would amount to 1,500 troops available for this operation. It's not nothing. I believe that more than 300 military personnel are being requisitioned; at least a number of that number. We must therefore pay particular attention to this at a time when NATO reminds us of our international commitments. On the issue of the pay gap, I am surprised that after five weeks of deployment of these forces, no one is able to make the comparison. It does not seem to me Chinese to align wages and bonuses, then add them up. In this regard, is this exactly the same premium they would receive in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u48	This depends on where they were based in Afghanistan; there was a risk factor 2 or 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u49	Symbolically, this seems somewhat surprising to me because we do not live in Afghanistan. What is the amount of this daily premium? Do you know him?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u50	No, no memory.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u51	Do you have any information about the impact on foreign operations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u52	In Kunduz, the risk factor was 3 or 4. Here, it's 2 on a scale of 5. As far as operations abroad are concerned, there is a schedule that is followed. I do not think there is any reason to fear that what we are doing here will have an impact on our military operations abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u53	Mr Hellings, we do not need the Special Commission for the Succession of Foreign Shipments to organise a meeting behind closed doors. We can do that perfectly in our committee if there is a two-thirds majority for that. I propose that you deal with your question during the course of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u54	Mr Minister, I do not really know why I am asking this question, because I have already been able to read the answer in the press. It is a rather strange way of working as a Member of Parliament to put a question and then to read the answer in the newspapers. I don't think that deontologically is a good way to work. I also think it is a sign of little respect for Parliament. I tabled my question at the end of January because I found a contradiction. During the budget discussion on 3 December 2014, the Minister said that in 2015 Defence would recruit up to 1 360 new recruits, instead of the planned 1 690 soldiers. On 23 December 2014, a note from the Chief of Defense appeared in the press, in which, however, there were far fewer new recruits. The union ACMP then said that recruitment would be limited to 660 military. That was the reason for my parliamentary question, to which you have already replied in the newspapers. I have here an article in De Standaard in which you say 'I quote: 'Defensie will recruit 700 soldiers this year: 320 volunteers, 260 petty officers and 120 officers'. Madam President, I had asked not only for the total figure, but also for the breakdown between volunteers, petty officers and officers. I really don't think that's possible. I hope that you will urge the Minister that the answer to a question from a Member of Parliament should first be given to that Member of Parliament in committee and not to journalists. I have another supplementary question. I am concerned about the low recruitment rates and their impact on the operationality of our Defence in 2015. So far there is a rather pointless parliamentary question, due to the Minister's communication in the press and only then in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u55	Mr De Vriendt, I leave that assessment to you. I do not interfere in the regulation of the work in committee. When I was here at the last two meetings to answer questions, the committee chose to have a very long discussion on procedures, which meant that there was no time to answer questions. I have been on the committee between 21 January and now to answer questions. However, I could not have given you the answer that appeared in the press today because it was a decision taken last week. It's been an iterative process. You ask me if on 3 December I had any knowledge of the memo of 23 December from the CHOD. Of course not, on 3 December I cannot have any knowledge of a note which will be published on 23 December. The fact is that, when we presented the budget, we were based on 1 690 soldiers and when I presented my budget package in the Chamber, I indicated that a maximum of 1 360 new soldiers could be recruited. There have been several proposals. It's just what I'm trying to say. What is the importance of so-called leaked notes between the Cabinet and the Defence Staff to reach a decision? There have been several proposals. A proposal was indeed also in the direction of what ACMP has released and what is the basis of your question, which I do not agree with. In fact, last week I was presented with a dossier for recruitment 2015, which I signed and in which the figures are as you quote them and as they were in the media, namely that 120 officers, 260 petty officers and 320 volunteers will be recruited.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u56	Madam President, Minister, my question is pending on 21 January 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u57	Mr De Vriendt, let us be serious. Take your calendar. How many times have I been here since January 21st to answer questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u58	My question was not dealt with. I have to read the answer first in the press. So there has been a communication from your cabinet to journalists, knowing that a parliamentary question on the same subject is pending. For example, you might as well have informed me and sent me the answer in writing via the committee secretariat. It's a question of deontology.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u59	Mr De Vriendt, I do not feel addressed. I understand your frustration, but I do not feel addressed in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u60	Madam President, don't you feel addressed? In your capacity as chairman of the committee, I think you should feel addressed. There's been a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u61	Mr De Vriendt, let's be serious. Do you really want me to postpone any decision and communication about every decision until I find a place in my agenda to come here and answer your question? When my cabinet is called with the question of recruitment and my cabinet answers that the minister has decided to recruit 700 men, so be it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u62	In that case, it shows respect for Parliament when you know which questions are pending to give the answers to Parliament and to the Member concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u63	If that respect was reciprocal, I can go along with your reasoning.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u64	Minister, I do not think you can blame Parliament for disrespecting you. However, the issue could be resolved perfectly in this way, namely to inform the Member that a decision has been taken and to provide the answer to a question that has been pending for three weeks. It can be as simple as that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u65	Madam President, at the end of last year there were rumours of the possible closure of the Beauvechain airbase as part of the planned rationalizations in our armed forces. It is known that such noises circulate sporadically without they prove to be accurate, since today the base is still in operation, despite the changes in its organization and use. This time, the local press again reported rumours of the closure of the Beauvechain base. Therefore, Minister, I would like to know what you are planning as part of your defence rationalization plan. Could you provide me with more specific information about the future of the air base? Will it be maintained? Will it be reassigned to other missions or could it be subject to a definitive closure? I heard in this committee that there were several questions about military bases.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u66	Mrs de Coster-Bauchau, I refer to the first question I answered today. It was about another barracks, but it was about the same thing. The government agreement provides that I develop within six months a strategic vision. This will be done around Easter. There will be a strategic plan over time that will be followed by an implementation plan. The latter plan will determine the number of barracks to be closed in the future. It is now too early to give you an answer on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u67	Minister, thank you. I will follow this carefully and will come back if I have any further questions on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u68	Off the record, what's important to me is whether you want the base to stay open or close. At Beauvechain, it's not always clear. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u69	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u70	Madam President, Minister, negotiations between the European Union and the United States on a draft Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) are continuing in the greatest opacity. The concerns raised by these negotiations between Brussels and Washington are not lacking: cultural exception, health and agri-food aspects, etc. Defence markets are also a cause for concern. At France's request, defence and security markets are no longer explicitly mentioned, but nothing prevents negotiators from talking about them under the general public procurement agenda. At the beginning of the negotiations, the French Minister for Foreign Trade, Nicole Bricq, said: "We know that American public procurement is very closed; so we will not agree to open ours while the US defence market is closed." And in fact, it is in this sector that the "buy american" policy is the most binding. On the eve of the purchase of several potential major weapons equipment and systems by our country and more broadly by several Member States, I would like to ask you, Mr Minister, the following questions. What position does the Belgian Government take with regard to the negotiating mandate given to the Commission for TTIP in defence and the defence industry? Has this topic been discussed by the Council of the European Union? What is the position of the other Member States? Has the European Defence Agency been consulted on this subject with a view to the strategic purchases to be made by several Member States in the coming years? Has there finally been any reflection on the level of the European defence industry? The Government Agreement provides for the establishment of a strategic direction for the succession of frigates M, mine fighters and other weapons systems such as drones and major equipment of the Earth component. These are major systems in terms of economic benefits, technological independence and civil-military synergies, particularly in terms of research and development. Have your services and those of the SPF Economy assessed the potential impact of TTIP in the conclusion of these potential future replacements? Have the federated entities and the Belgian industrial sector been consulted?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u71	Mr Pirlot, the negotiations between the European Union and the United States on the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership project do not fall within my remit. I refer you to my colleague Kris Peeters, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Employment, Economy and Consumer Affairs, responsible for external trade, who is responsible for this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u72	Minister, it seems to me that linking the Ministries of Defence and the Economy, for example, would make it possible to have a somewhat more comprehensive vision. If this matter does not depend directly on your department, it will still have a significant impact on it. Our dear American friends, who are also our competitors, have understood very well what military and economic keynesianism was.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u73	Question No 1770 by Mr Stéphane Crusnière is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u74	Madam President, today I have a lot of questions to ask. Mr Vandeput is passionate about me and I do not resist the temptation to question him on many occasions. Minister, the previous government had taken many intelligence initiatives and actions, including the Belgian Intelligence Academy (BIA) project. You have announced with your Justice colleague the establishment of this "academie" responsible for providing joint training to analysts of the two Belgian intelligence services, the State Security and the Military Intelligence Service, the General Intelligence and Security Service (SGRS). According to Lieutenant-General Eddy Testelmans, there will be no additional costs either in personnel or in construction under the Memorandum of Understanding between Defence and Justice. My group believes that this is an important achievement, in particular in order to ensure better communication between these Belgian intelligence services. Therefore, minister, could you tell me how to organize, and according to what timetable, the start of this BIA? What reconciliations should it allow in terms of training between the SGRS and the State Security? Is this initiative part of a European dynamic? Are there any other global reflections on how to bring these services closer together? Once the joint trainings have been completed, should this BIA bring about changes in the exchange of information, or even personnel, between the two entities? What about the training of OCAM officers in this context? During this press conference, Jaak Raes, for his part, said that joint courses could begin after the recruitment of new analysts for both services, which is obviously complicated by the budgetary savings imposed on all federal departments. In your view, "exceptions are possible", however, by presenting a dossier to the Council of Ministers. Do you therefore intend to implement such exceptions? If so, when?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u75	Madam President, Mr Pirlot, the Belgian Intelligence Academy will be organizing an intelligence analysis course in the course of 2015. Other areas of training will be identified and prepared by the BIA Steering Committee. This initiative is part of a drive to improve standardization between intelligence services. In 2015, the BIA Steering Committee will explore the opportunity to develop a legal status in order to welcome external partners. On the basis of the government agreement, the two intelligence services explore different avenues to optimize collaboration and information exchange. The recruitment of new analysts for the benefit of the Sûreté de l'État is a matter for the Minister of Justice. Within Defence, the SGRS will continue to train its staff in the area of analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u76	Minister, what about the officers of the OCAM?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u77	OCAM did not recruit officers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u78	With respect to possible exceptions? Jaak Raes had indicated that common courses could begin after the recruitment of the new officers, but that it was frozen for budgetary reasons. However, exceptions were possible. Have any files been processed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u79	I don't know what Mr. Raes said exactly. That being the case, I can tell you that we have been looking for a better way to work together. The courses were evaluated positively. We try to work well with the BIA by drawing on lessons that are given abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u80	Madam President, Minister, the European March of Remembrance and Friendship (MESA) will not escape your department's budget cuts. In 2015, the MESA will take place from 23 to 26 June. While waiting to know the exact budget amount, the organizers have pitched on a project that has halved last year's committed budget. From 100 000 euros, they have indeed increased to 50 000 euros, which obviously implies a refocusing of the steps of the march. In the name of the importance of memory work, the competence of your department, to which you are very attached, this potential budget reduction seems paradoxical, while this march is growing in success. In 2014, the organizers noted 20% more walkers than in 2013, from 18 different nationalities and expect 1,200 walkers this year again. It should also be remembered that this march was born in memory of the Ardennes Hunters who fought and resisted in May 1940, 75 years ago. Therefore, Minister, when will you be able to communicate to the organizers the Defence budget allocated to MESA? If this budget is down for 2015, will this decrease be recurring in the future? What impact could a potential budget reduction have on the scale of this event in terms of both memory and logistics, the price for participants, the number of walkers or its international reputation? Could other similar initiatives, particularly in the province of Luxembourg, be affected by these budget cuts?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u81	Madam Chair, Mr. Pirlot, I can confirm that the Remembrance March is being maintained for 2015. However, in view of the pressure of the budgetary reality facing Defence, it was decided to reduce the budget for MESA to EUR 50,000. A consultation phase on the implementation of support from the civil authorities is under way with the various levels, in particular the municipalities and the Region. The objective is to maintain the spirit of MESA, including the duty of memory, the international aspect and the Army-Nation ties. With regard to the impact on MESA 2015, we are trying to keep, as part of the duty of memory, the Day of Remembrance as well as the tributes to the various monuments during the week. Four steps of walking are also maintained in view of the scale of the event. The organisers have confirmed to my services that, on the basis of the information currently available, the participation price in 2014 will remain unchanged. A priori, based on contacts with local and regional civil authorities and thanks to the maintenance of the quality of reception and services, we expect little impact on the number of walkers expected in 2015 and on the international reputation of the event. In any case, an evaluation is planned by the end of the year to determine future developments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u82	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for these answers. I take the opportunity of the reply to point out that I withdraw my question No. 2140 on the psychological follow-up of the military; I therefore leave it to Mrs Fernandez to ask the original question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u83	Question No 2140 by Mr Sebastian Pirlot was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u84	Madam President, Minister, on January 21, the daily La Libre announced an increase in the rate of suicide in the army. These figures illustrate the harsh reality. It is important to continue to focus on the causes of suicide and post-traumatic stress in the military. Few reflections have taken place on the establishment of a post-traumatic service for better support for people with psychological difficulties. We heard your response at the 22 January plenary session, which states, in particular, that before any operation, military personnel receive specific training to learn how to manage the psychological and social challenges associated with their future mission. It must be noted that the scheme appears to be inadequate. Minister, do you intend to take new initiatives both in the prevention of suicides within your department and in the psychosocial follow-up of the military? In this system, the Royal Military Hospital and its mental health centre have already demonstrated their importance. In this context, how do you view the expertise of the medical component and the Royal Military Hospital for the future? Do you not think that the particularity of the military profession and operations abroad implies, for example, the non-externalization of psychosocial monitoring? Is there any consideration at the level of the IV-INIG in this area? Is it not possible to create a real prevention service for the reintegration of soldiers after a long operation to be a solution in the reflection for better psychosocial follow-up of the military?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u85	Madam President, Minister, as early as January, I asked a question in committee about the high levels of suicide in the army and about the preventive measures that Defence is taking in this regard. You said at the time that you were very concerned about this problem. In my previous question, the suicide figures for 2014 were not yet known, but in the meantime we know that number, namely 16 suicides. Turns out that's another increase. Defence scores very high compared to the male Belgian population for several years. During a contact with former Army doctor, Dr. Lemmens, he said he has some hypotheses about the continued rise in suicides. In his view, this uncertainty is due to repeated restructuring and relocations, a very strong decline and centralisation of medical and preventive means to detect medical and psychological problems in good time, and an excessive spread in the structure of prevention actors. Furthermore, more aggressive operations abroad, with a lack of psychological support and control after these operations, are also a hypothesis, as well as a lack of formation of hierarchical leadership, information of the troops and cohesion of the shifts in the environment that tends to leave people with medical and psychological problems on the sidelines. Of course, these are only hypotheses put forward by Dr Lemmens, but the problem is very important. I believe that you can and should make the most of prevention. In view of our Belgian problem, would it not be appropriate to organise a Belgian working party in Defence alongside a NATO working group? Is it possible to decentralise the means to detect the medical and psychological problems in good time? Dr Lemmens claims in one of his hypotheses that there is a large spread of the structure of all these actors and that this is an effective problem. What actors are the military currently providing to detect these things, and what exactly is the structure now? What psychological control and support is provided for after military operations abroad, for example when pilots and other military personnel return to Iraq in June? So what exactly is happening in the area of support? Finally, how are the troops informed about all preventive measures? Do you think they are sufficiently informed about all the possibilities?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u86	Madam President, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, as already pointed out in my replies to the oral questions on this subject, both in committee on 7 January and in plenary on 22 January, the well-being of staff is important to me. As I have already mentioned, it is often difficult to identify the reasons for suicide. This is often a combination of financial, relational and/or denominational causes. The many actions that have been undertaken by Defence in the area of suicide prevention have already been explained, also in the context of the operational engagement of the military – I will come back to that. Both the measures taken before, during or after the operations were explained in my above-mentioned replies. I have also pointed out that, despite the existence of these various measures, I have asked the Defence Staff to present me with a study of a structural framework upon return from mission, which, in my view, answers your third question. The results of this study should be integrated into the strategic plan. With respect to suicide prevention initiatives, please be aware that Defence focuses on areas on which it can act, such as combating taboo and stigma associated with suicide by increasing the training and awareness of its staff in suicide prevention. The Defence Working Group on Suicide is currently working to adapt response and support procedures to make them more proactive. Finally, it is clear that the parameters taken into account in the development of the strategic plan and the government plan will take into account a role currently played by the various actors in the field of psychosocial follow-up, such as the Queen Astrid Military Hospital but also all other actors involved. You will still find answers to your questions through my answer to Mr. Top. Mr Top, I have already referred to my replies on 7 and 22 January. You quoted a few figures, I'll show them all again: 16 in 2009, 18 in 2010, 14 in 2011, 13 in 2012, 10 in 2013 and 13 in 2014. There is therefore indeed an increase by 2013, but this is not as drastic as was indicated. It is important to specify that these are small numbers and that one or two cases cause more or less percentage differences. I note, however, that the percentage is about as high as a comparable sample of the Belgian population. I have already indicated in other answers what the percentage of men is, and so on. In 2012 it was decided to set up a working group to initiate, coordinate and follow-up actions to prevent suicide. In this working group are representatives of the various services providing psychosocial assistance, namely the social service, the Centre for Mental Health, the Religious and Moral Assistance Service, the advisers Mental Operationality, and the Internal Service for Prevention and Protection at Work. The working group as a whole is headed by the department of Well Being. The resources used by the Defence Department to assist personnel suffering from psychosocial problems are largely geographically decentralised. This decentralisation is desirable in order to minimise the distance between the needy and the aid provider. Direct Chiefs, Unitary and Corps Commanders are the first contact points for staff facing psychosocial problems. In addition, the services I will list can intervene. Each of these services has its own specific character, and the staff shall decide freely on the department to which they apply for assistance. The confidants are divided among the services of the Defense Department. They offer a listening ear and help to those who believe that the psychosocial burden on work is too heavy for them. The staff can also contact the Department of Defense's complaints department with psychosocial complaints. The prevention advisors are involved in psychosocial risk analyses and in the management of psychosocial risks. They also intervene in the formal handling of complaints. Defence has an internal occupational health service, where staff can deal with psychosocial problems caused by the function performed. The social services can address all kinds of problems of a social or psychosocial nature. The Addict cell focuses on the prevention of addictions. Finally, the chaplains, who are grouped together in the Religious and Moral Assistance Service, are also available to provide psychosocial support where necessary. The Centre for Mental Health of the Military Hospital Queen Astrid succeeds staff who have complaints or have mental disorders and provides therapeutic support. With regard to operational tasks, from the designation of a contract to a few months after the return, the advisors on operational mentality will assist both command and individual. Before leaving for a foreign assignment, the military receive briefings to inform them about possible health and addiction risks. The medical detachment participating in the operation also plays a role. If necessary, it may call upon the Centre for Mental Health. A few months after the return from the military operation, the morale of the returned military forces is assessed. This will also be the case for the 120 soldiers participating in Operation Desert Falcon. They will not only return in June 2015. After all, there are regular rotations in the occupation there. So that happens every time people return. During the last weeks of an assignment abroad, all staff take part in workshops, which prepare them for their return. They receive brochures. The help of the Defense Department is being offered. Recommendations are made to prepare the reunion with the family. It also points to indications of possible psychological problems. So it's about recognizing any symptoms of mental problems. I repeat that there is a study currently under way on a structural framework for return. The aim is to make it a structural whole. The results of this study will be presented to me in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u87	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answers. Although most of them will be reflected in your strategic plan, it seems to us necessary that before it is published, we question you on matters that we believe are important. You were talking about trustworthy people. I was questioned about the training given to these trusted people, a little light, according to some members, to enable them to cope with the problems they have to deal with and their concerns. Perhaps I will come back to this in a future question. The proposed stay in Cyprus for the restoration of the military is a solution that we do not like very much. Indeed, this outcome is costly and no work is done when soldiers return, at a time when problems really arise. The follow-up of victims is therefore nullified after this trip. Finally, the CGSP had proposed the creation of a centre of expertise for post-traumatic syndromes within the Veteran Institute, with relative independence. I think this is a path that should also be studied. In conclusion, we remain convinced that a thorough investigation into suicide may be a good beginning.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u88	Thank you, Minister, for the answer and for the effective follow-up to this problem. I am pleased that you have improved the figures for 2014 as quoted. However, it remains to be seen that, from a statistical point of view, the average remains above that of the Belgian male population. Every human life is important. We must therefore take that into account and try to reduce it to zero. When I listen to the explanation, foreign missions are organized on return and as preparation for return workshops. So people are being prepared. That is the preventive policy. Furthermore, you have indicated that there can be notification and that there are different bodies. However, the military itself must come to these authorities with its complaints or feelings, or its commander can report them and intervene. Of course, those superiors, the immediate chiefs, aren't always trained for that. One can try to train them, but professionally, that is not always the best way to help those people. I therefore still call for further efforts to be made on preventive policy. In addition, I have a double question which also relates to the answer to Mrs Fernandez's question. You have indicated that military personnel go to workshops on their return from abroad. I suppose that's where everyone's going. Once they have returned, however, there is only the optional possibility for military to contact in case of problems. However, people suffering from psychological problems will not often do so. They don't sell their problems. There is still a threshold to express itself when there is a problem. Usually one only comes to the suicide until the finding that there was a problem. So the question is whether there is an obligation for every military to still visit a particular department or doctor for the follow-up. Can that be arranged in that way? That is a specific question. Secondly, you replied to Mrs Fernandez that this will be integrated into the study and proposals contained in the Defence Strategy Plan. Between the proposal of the study and its completion and the elaboration of the Defence Strategic Plan, there will probably be a number of years. When we look at the number of victims per year, I hope that we do not have to add any more victims. I agree that you are introducing this into the strategic plan, but I would urge that it be implemented as soon as possible so that this problem can be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u89	Mr Top, you are making a link that has not been demonstrated today, a link between being in surgery and...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u90	I didn't make that link.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u91	I've explained to you what's happening in surgery today. Before going home, preventive workshops are given in the operation, also to identify possible problems. A while after the return, people are surveyed for the moral condition of the people. Those are things that happen today within the framework of an operation. As I said, we are in the laws of the small numbers. When you talk about suicide, you usually talk about a multitude of problems. It is a combination of all kinds of problems and one cannot only reduce the problem to whether or not it is military. I replied to your question in committee regarding the leadership that is also being asked of the corps commander to pay attention to his people. Is that flawless? No. I also indicated at the time that there could be a certain macho culture in the Defense Department, which makes it difficult for people to come out with their problems. To return to what Mrs Fernandez Fernandez says, I cannot comment on the quality of the training of those who trust me, but I do know that they are there and that they should, in principle, treat confidentially the information that is entrusted to them and should accompany those people. I said that's important to me. Last week I sat together to evaluate the progress of what is being done. However, the problem is difficult. If we want to work preventively, we also need to know what we want to do about prevention. There are few elements to be found in the statistics to put an effective finger on one particular problem. It is therefore difficult to take very specific measures, but I did ask for them, so I would like to see what will be presented to me. That's when I'm gonna have to weigh things up. The response prepared for me by the administration, which I have also read out, refers to the strategic plan. If we can save a human life, we will of course not wait until the strategic plan is ready. This data is unrelated to that. However, when we look at the whole organisation and structure, I believe that we should also provide a place for suicide prevention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, our meeting time is over. I am consulting with the Cabinet to set a new date as soon as possible in order to get the whole series of questions that are still on the agenda to be answered as soon as possible. It may be too much to ask for further questions until then.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u93	Madam President, I really intend to continue working on the list. Next week, however, the government-to-government meeting with the Netherlands will take place, so I cannot be present on the planned day. However, we are looking for a date to complete the list.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u94	Mr Minister, it would be wise for us to hold a meeting devoted to this. Some questions go back a month. New information must then be taken into account. I really want to ask you about Mr. From Crem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic096x.u95	We'll do our best.
