ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic042x.u1	Mr President, since these questions are the same, I shall simply ask one question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic042x.u2	Mr President, minister, under the previous legislature, I have already had the opportunity to come back to this issue of the Verviers courthouse. Perhaps you don't know him because of his geographical location on the German border. Personally, on my visit last year, I had the opportunity to see his state of advanced disrepair. Like everyone else, I know that this is not the only courthouse in this situation, but Verviers' is of particular interest to me. This state of affairs makes its attendance very uncomfortable for the litigants, but it becomes surreal and dangerous for the staff to work there. The ministers followed each other, like the Magi kings. At the time, Melchior Wathelet went to the scene with Mr. Verherstraeten and announced that we were going to take charge. Indeed, I was able to see it in the following weeks: the doors had been painted and they are very beautiful. However, this restoration did not remove anything from the dangerousness of the site due to the cracks between the floors. So I would have liked to take stock. Since that visit, decisions have been taken to store in the building on Rue Crapaurue the archives piled up in the attic of the courthouse: they threatened to fall down from one floor. Some hearings are held in this building, which poses some organizational problems. Another commercial building in rue Xhavee was rented to store the archives previously stored in the basement of the courthouse, covered with mushrooms and moulds. On 22 April 2014, the courthouse inaugurated its new secure cell block; at least that is a step forward. The prisoners' cells and the council chamber are there. Normally, the block should be able to accommodate up to 18 inmates; for now, it has only 5 blocks instead of 9. According to some reports in the press – so let's be careful – there is little chance that the renovation of the courthouse will begin in 2016, as originally planned. Indeed, the construction site is colossal and infrastructure problems continue to accumulate. Moreover, it would appear that the project to purchase space in the new building built by T.Palm, located right in front of the east wing of the courthouse, is not particularly well advanced either. Mr Minister, a number of questions therefore arise in the head of the King's Prosecutor in Verviers, of all the officials who work there and of the politicians. Can you give us specific information about the work schedule? Will the rented building on Xhavee Street be sufficient to accommodate the archives? Have these been severely damaged by the moisture present in the cellars of the courthouse? Will the cell block device be completed soon? Is the purchase or rental project in the new T.Palm building still up to date?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic042x.u3	Mr President, Mr Frédéric, the initial schedule of work has been somewhat disrupted as a result, in particular, of the budgetary and political situation. A normal negotiation period was also required to complete the acquisition of the building built by T.Palm. To date, the acquisition of the building has been validated and will take place in the coming weeks. As for the building on rue Xhavee, the archives (living and dead) were initially stored in the basement, in the corridors and in the attic of the old building as well as on the fourth floor of the extensions. This situation has led to various problems of stability. To remedy this and to enable the necessary work to be carried out, it was decided to evacuate a large part of the archives to different places: the parking lot in the basement of the extension, part of the premises of the Crabaurue buildings and the rented premises of Xhavee Street. With regard to the latter area, security work will be carried out from this month of January. Once this work is completed, all records to be disposed of will be stored in these premises. Therefore, no surface extension for archive storage is foreseen. With regard to moisture in the cellars of the courthouse, some archives that are stored there have indeed suffered as a result of infiltration. Since the treatment of these are part of the prerogatives of the FPS Justice, we cannot rule on the matter. Nevertheless, it appears that a significant part of these documents could have been evacuated to the State archives or destroyed. If, initially, the number of cells was insufficient, this is no longer the case at present. Indeed, these cells are purchased from the federal police. The latter was not able to provide all the necessary cells quickly and in order to unblock the situation, we agreed to be delivered in two phases. The last cells have been delivered recently. So the problem is solved. Finally, the project to acquire the new building built by T.Palm is still relevant and will take place in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic042x.u4	Minister, thank you for your answers. The new element is the purchase solution for a new building, which is essential. I would like to take this opportunity to draw your attention to the problematic reality of public services relating to justice in the district of Verviers, which is stuck between the district of Liège and the German-speaking Community. I know that you are not a Minister of Justice, but since the reform of the judicial cantons, there has been an important form of decentralization. Like the Vervieto political world, I fear that there will be a sharp disinvestment in buildings. This is the case of the courthouse on which I remain somewhat obstinate; this will be the case of the prison of Verviers which was closed, more than a year ago now because it was enough to push on the walls of the interior to get out of it, which is not the purpose of a prison, you will agree. All staff have been relocated. The inmates have been transferred everywhere, respecting the language obligations – it is not to you that I have to explain them – since there are also 60,000 German-speaking people in the Verviers district that I respect deeply. Our obsession, which is likely to tire you and which has tired previous ministers, is to ensure that public judicial tools are maintained in the Verviers district, otherwise we risk turning it into a desert.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic042x.u5	Question No 415 by Mr Frédéric has become moot. Mr Demeyer is not present for his question No. Forty-six. So his question lapses. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Jadin's 275 and 277 are converted into a written question. Mr Goffin is not present for his questions. 405 and 406. His questions will therefore lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic042x.u6	Mr President, my best wishes for the new year. Mr Minister, the Government of the Buildings is planning to build a prison in Haren, one of the largest prisons in our country, with more than a thousand places. The intention is to replace the old prisons of Prince and Saint Gillis, because they are in a very poor condition. In recent weeks, there have been rumors that the contract with the investor, Cafasso, would include a passage that would force the Government of the Buildings to pay compensation if the building permit had not been delivered by the end of 2014. What is certain is that the intention is to start construction in the spring of 2015, as can be seen on the website of the Regie der Bouwen. Hence my very specific questions. Is it true that under the contract with Cafasso a compensation must be paid if the urban permit is not in order by a certain date? If yes, is it true that 31 December 2014 is the ultimate date against when the building permit should have been delivered? What compensation is proposed in that case? What stage is the project currently in? What deadlines must be taken into account before the urban permit can be delivered? Does this timing mean that the deadline of late 2014 could be met? Are similar clauses included in other contracts relating to projects of the Directorate of Buildings? If so, in which projects? Can the Regie still escape a possible payment of damages if the date was exceeded?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic042x.u7	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, my best wishes. I wish you a lot of fun this year. You ask whether or not compensation should be paid. Unlike the contracts for the previous four prisons, including Dendermonde, and three of which have already been completed, compensation is payable to the consortium only if the award to the preferred tenderer would not take place if the works were not started after the award of the works or, as in any contract, if the contract were to be terminated. These amounts were fixed in advance in the contract. The acquisition of a licence by a given date is therefore not subject to the payment of compensation. Should we stop the project for any reason, we are obliged to pay damages, but there are no data clauses in it. Secondly, you asked whether 31 December 2014 is the ultimate date. When the contract was published in 2012, 31/12 was indeed the closing date for the tender taking into account a normal lead time for such projects so that the works could start in spring 2015. Due to some delays around the mobility aspects, the consultation with the residents that took place and the organisation of the public investigation, this deadline could not be observed. What compensation is proposed in that case? As I said, it does not lead to compensation. Then I come to your fourth question: what stage is the project currently in? The procedure for the impact study is currently under way. A first public investigation into the scope of this study took place in June of this year and the second public investigation into the situation itself is planned for February 2015. The environmental permit must be served and delivered by the month of May so that the urban permit is there by the summer. Again, that is not subject to compensation. Are there similar clauses in other contracts? No, there are no other contracts with such clauses. Your sixth question will then lapse, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic042x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is reassuring because we have of course had the other projects in Beveren and Dendermonde. However, damages were paid there because certain deadlines were not respected. I have the impression that the Regie has learned from previous files and has no longer contracted to issue permits by a certain date. I hope that the project will proceed smoothly.
