ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic130x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, welcome again to our committee. We welcome our Prime Minister, Mr. Charles Michel. He will answer a number of oral questions from our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic130x.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister, we have been talking about the establishment of the Belgian Cybersecurity Centre for many weeks now. At the time of your last presentation to this committee, you announced that, as a matter of course, we were in the process of recruiting staff, even though the premises had already been chosen. The time taken to operate this indispensable tool is worrying, especially since, at the same time, there is always, as long as our information is accurate, only two people in charge of the analysis of computer security at CERT. This figure should be compared with the 30 specialists active in this field in the Luxembourg administration or with the eighty in the Netherlands. It should be noted that the Centre does not intend to overburden human resources in the field, since you announced the forthcoming hiring of ten people, only two of whom are computer specialists. It was January 13th. Two months later, it does not appear that the deliberate decrees in the Council of Ministers to appoint the Director and Deputy Director were taken. Prime Minister, what is the status of the recruitment of these directors? Is the recruitment of the rest of the staff suspended from these first appointments? If so, on what horizon do you think the activities of this Belgian Cybersecurity Centre will be launched?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic130x.u3	Mr. Thiébaut, it certainly took a long time for the previous government – two years – to take the order that set up the Centre. In a few months, we issued the royal decree that had not been issued under the previous legislature and immediately launched the recruitment processes. We have decided to respect the objectivation through the Selor. We did not choose to go through the study centre of a political party to recruit the director of the Centre. Specifically, on 21 January 2015, the functional profiles of the Director and Deputy Director were determined with the Policy Coordination Working Group. Secondly, on 23 January, we convened the Ministerial Committee on Intelligence and Security, as formally provided for in the royal decrees in question. Since then, the working group has met again on 19 March to sign its agreement, so that the recruitment announcements for the functions can be published on the Selor sites. This publication will take place within eight years. This means that the selection process for the Selor, exactly as I announced when the government took office, will have to be completed by the end of June 2015. It was the timing announced several times. With regard to the recruitment of the other eight officers to supplement the CWB, this will also be a priority and procedures must be implemented as quickly as possible. In the context of budgetary control, as I also announced, the necessary resources will have to be mobilised to enable these recruitments to become operational and effective. I recall that I am determined to ensure that the various federal departments involved in cybersecurity can fully assume their respective responsibilities. I am also able to inform you that, for several months now, the advisers of my strategic cell have already started the various work, approaches, consultations to prepare the ground, so that the future directors and deputy directors can be operational as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic130x.u4	Prime Minister, thank you. Let me make a few preliminary remarks. I have the impression that you tend to forget that your party was sitting in the previous government – which you often criticize. I find that surprising. That said, the news is rather reassuring. Theoretically, the director and deputy director will take over the organ in June and will be able to start the process of recruiting the eight people. However, don't you think it's a little light when you compare this situation with initiatives in other countries? I was talking about that in my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic130x.u5	Mr. Thiébaut, I will answer you in two steps. First of all, as far as the past is concerned, I am content to inform Parliament by referring to the responsibility of my predecessor, who was directly involved in cybersecurity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic130x.u6	It was a simple remark...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic130x.u7	Do not be susceptible in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic130x.u8	I'm not taking it bad at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic130x.u9	Then, at the risk of repeating myself, this centre will undertake strategy and coordination work. We do not remove, nor do we include responsibilities of other departments. This is simply our choice, which is expressed through the royal decree deliberated by the previous government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic130x.u10	Prime Minister, as these clarifications have been made, I will certainly come back to you in June.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic130x.u11	Prime Minister, the Lambermont agreement dates back to 2001, and I would like to remind you of two articles. Firstly, in Article 6b of the special law on institutional reform, I read that from 1 January 2004 development cooperation components will be transferred, in so far as they relate to Community and regional competences. A special working group shall be set up with the task of proposing, in consultation with the sector and by 31 December 2002 at the latest, a list of matters relating to the competences of the Communities and Regions in the field of development cooperation." Secondly, together with that special law, an Article 68c was inserted into the special financing law. That Article states: "On the basis of the corresponding resources, as provided for in the 2001 budget, and according to the various keys, for the Communities and the Regions respectively, as derived from this special law, the financial resources necessary for the transfer of powers in the field of development cooperation shall be transferred. The working party referred to in Article 6b of the Special Law of August 1980 on the reform of the institutions, introduced by the Special Law of 13 July 2001, transferring various powers to the Regions and the Communities, prepares this transfer." Both articles are still contained in the special law on institutional reform and in the special financing law, respectively. To date, none of these aspects of the fifth state reform have been implemented. The file's a little forgotten. The Flemish administration has not completely forgotten it. In 2010, the Commission produced information sheets on all kinds of subjects. In the brochure of 30 August 2010, it reiterates the proposal that the commitments of 2001 on the federalisation of development cooperation should be honoured. In addition, Flanders has already made all preparations for the federalisation of powers and resources on 22 June 2007 and also on a policy-based basis. The position of the Flemish government in the Octopus note at the time was also quite clear: "The Flemish government believes that the previous agreements must also be honoured. We stand by our view that development cooperation and the corresponding resources must be transferred. Development cooperation covers areas mainly situated in the Communities and regions, the sub-areas should be responsible for defining and implementing policies." Prime Minister, the majority in the government agreement clearly committed themselves to implementing the sixth state reform. Will you also address aspects of previous state reforms which have not yet been carried out, such as the transfer of parts of development cooperation and, above all, the corresponding resources, because that is not an obvious discussion with budgetary control in mind either? Are you taking the initiative to implement these two elements? If so, what can we expect in concrete terms and what is the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic130x.u12	Mrs Pas, we already have so much work to do. The Lambermont Agreements of 16 October 2003 and 20 January 2001 provide for the transfer of certain powers to the Communities and the Regions. This is how the fifth state reform was launched. The powers transferred to the Regions were, among other things, the municipal and provincial laws, sea fishing and foreign trade. Furthermore, the tax autonomy of the Regions has been significantly extended by a revision of the special financing law. The agreement also provides for the partial transfer of development cooperation to the Communities and the Regions from 1 January 2004, with the other part remaining a federal competence, Article 6b of the Special Law of 13 July 2001. However, due to relevance and efficiency, the part of the agreement on the transfer of powers and resources in the field of development cooperation was not implemented as provided for in the Special Law of 13 July 2001. Meanwhile, the international environment in which Belgian Development Cooperation takes place has changed radically. For this reason, in the previous legislature, following several hearings in the Committees for Foreign Affairs of the Chamber and for the External Relations of the Senate and on the basis of the report on the Review of the Law of 25 May 1999 on Belgian International Cooperation of 14 July 2008, the Law of 25 May 1999 on Belgian International Cooperation of 19 March 2013 replaced the Law on Belgian Development Cooperation of 19 March 2013. The coalition agreement does not provide for specific measures on this subject, but contains a chapter on development cooperation. That chapter sets out the government's priorities for development cooperation. We're working to implement them. I would add that a few weeks ago the Consultative Committee set up the interministerial committee. There is also room for discussion and consultation in the Inter-Ministerial Committee for Foreign Affairs and Development Cooperation with a view to a coherent foreign policy, including development cooperation policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic130x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You refer, among other things, to the new law on development cooperation. It states that the legal basis for the subsidy remains at federal level, pending the completion of the transfer of usurping powers. I realize that it is a very complex matter and that you still have a lot of work to do with it. That doesn't change the fact that Flanders is still a asking party in the meantime. I do not know whether you have already discussed the transfer with your colleagues Mr De Croo and Mr De Crem, but I would nevertheless like to table a motion of recommendation to encourage the government to work on the implementation of those articles. Even though there has been a new state reform in the meantime, the articles for the transfer of these aspects are still in today's legislation. It can certainly be carried out for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic130x.u14	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the Prime Minister's reply, - having regard to Article 6b of the Special Law of 8 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions, - having regard to Article 68c of the Special Financing Act, - whereas these Articles provide for the transfer of components of development cooperation and related resources from 1 January 2004; - whereas these provisions have still not been implemented, asks the government to proceed without delay with the implementation of these Articles." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the Prime Minister's response, - having regard to Article 6b of the Special Act of 8 August 1980 on institutional reforms; - having regard to Article 68quater of the Special Financing Act; - Whereas these Articles provide for the transfer of certain parts of development cooperation and related resources from 1 January 2004; - Whereas these provisions have not yet been implemented, asks the government to engage without delay in the implementation of those articles." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Philippe Pivin. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Philippe Pivin. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. Debates of the European Parliament 2738 by Mrs Jadin will be dealt with in the Committee on Finance and the Budget. As Mr Gilkinet is not present and has not requested transposition or postponement, pursuant to Rule 127 (10) of the Rules of Procedure, his question No. 2789 as repealed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic130x.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, this is not a new arrangement for Members of Parliament. On 1 January 2005, a number of laws entered into force concerning the obligation to submit a list of mandates, posts and appeals, as well as a capital declaration. Since 1 January 2005, many public officials, such as members of the Chamber, Members of Parliament, senior officials, executives of ministerial cabinets, etc., have been required to submit two documents periodically to the Court of Auditors, namely the mandate list and the asset declaration. The list of mandates is published in the Belgian Official Journal after verification by the Court of Auditors. The asset declaration submitted under closed cover shall be kept unopened in a specially secured storage space, but that is another story. In recent years, there has been a great commotion about the self-righteous behaviour of the late Queen Fabiola with regard to the tax arrangements regarding her assets and the antics of Prince Laurent, who have often led to discussions about the donations to members of the royal family. Prime Minister, I have the following logical questions. Is it not desirable that transparency should also be created in relation to additional mandates, posts and professions of members of the royal family and the other possible income? It has become clear to me that the people would be grateful for clarity in the income and wealth of the members of the royal family. Despite the changes that have already been made for the better, this remains unclear, partly fed by often too vague announcements from the Palace itself. Prime Minister, do you share my view that, in this context, the members of the royal family who receive a donation should be obliged to submit a list of mandates, posts and professions, as well as an asset statement? A logical follow-up question is whether, if you agree with me, you will take an initiative in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic130x.u16	Mr President, Mrs Pas, the law of 27 November 2013 which reformates the system of donations and allowances granted to members of the royal family has already increased transparency in the financing of the royal family. As a reminder, the broad lines of the reform determine the following. Firstly, a reduction in the number of members of the royal family who can enjoy donations. Secondly, greater budgetary transparency with regard to expenditure related to the members of the royal family, including through the division of the amount into two budgets, namely the remuneration, which is subject to income tax, on the one hand, and the budget allocated to operating and personnel expenditure, on the other. Thirdly, the Court of Auditors' audit of the legality and regularity of the portion of the amounts devoted to the operation and staff. Fourthly, the members of the royal family who benefit from donations must also provide the Court with an annual report on their activities of general interest, for example one or more unpaid mandates. That report is also delivered to the Prime Minister, who in turn delivers it to the Chamber. Fifth, according to Article 6 of the Act of November 2013, there is an incompatibility of a donation with receiving another taxable income from a professional activity. In other words, the members of the royal family who benefit from a donation should not accumulate their donation with other sources of income, which, for example, would come from a paid post or mandate. This legislation is relatively new, since it entered into force on 1 January 2014. It was adopted by a large majority in Parliament. Changes in the capital declaration are always the result of a parliamentary initiative. At the moment, the government believes that these measures achieve their objective, that is to say, to ensure greater transparency in the financing of the royal family.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic130x.u17	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I know all the measures you have already taken. I have also pointed out that steps have already been taken. Unlike you, I do not believe that this is enough. I believe that there is nothing wrong with a publication in the Belgian Official Journal, as is already the case with the mandate list. For all members of the royal family who receive a donation and who have nothing to hide, this is all the more reason to show the people that they have nothing to hide in all kinds of fiscal constructions. I await the effects of your measures, but I am convinced that additional measures will be needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic130x.u18	Mrs Temmerman is not present and has not notified, so in accordance with Rule 127 (10) of the Rules of Procedure, her question No. 2953 withdrawn. The same applies to Question No Question No 3091 by Mr Nollet 3243 by Mr Van Hees. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 29, by Mr Friart 3137 by Mrs Jadin. Debates of the European Parliament 3165 by Mrs Poncelet is referred to the Infrastructure Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic130x.u19	Mr President, Prime Minister, today and tomorrow is taking place on the initiative of the City of Paris, a very large meeting of mayors from different European capitals and cities to prepare for the 21st Conference of the Parties to the 2015 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change - from 30 November to 11 December 2015. Indeed, it will be one of the largest international climate conferences ever held. The challenge is major: to contain a climate change that threatens our societies and our economies. The 2015 Paris Conference should lead to the adoption of an international agreement that will set the framework for a transition to resilient and low-carbon societies and economies. On the subject of this meeting, Mrs Hidalgo, the mayor of the City of Paris said: "Twenty-nine cities have already responded present and they will be proposed to take a concrete initiative by coordinating low-carbon public orders, particularly in the field of transport", but also in the building and energy sectors. The objective is quite clear: "learn to encourage industry to develop its own sectors" through public procurement. On this occasion, the cities call on the Member States to transcribe, as soon as possible, Directive 2014/25/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of contracts by entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors, which encourages the formation of groups of public orders with variable geometry between European municipalities with a view to developing environmentally friendly projects. Mr Prime Minister, on the basis of this information, could you inform us about the state of play and the timing of work on Belgium's transposition of this directive?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic130x.u20	Mr President, Mr Kir, thank you for this question. I'm going to be very specific in my answer. We have indeed established an indicative timing. Let me begin by reminding you that work at the administrative level started in July 2014 on this subject. On August 1, the administration drafted the draft bill. Subsequently, an opinion was sought from the federal advisory bodies. The agreements were requested from the Minister of Budget and the Inspectorate of Finance. We received the opinions of the advisory bodies on 30 March. On this basis, the draft law was finalized by the administration and sent to the strategic unit. Our approach is to try to approve the project in the Council of Ministers by 1 May. So we still have six weeks to endorse this document. Subsequently, the Council of State will be requested. This requires a period of thirty days. We have the hope, based on the opinion of the Council of State and any comments it may make to us, that it will be possible to table the text in Parliament before 21 July. This is, in any case, the objective of my strategic cell.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic130x.u21	Prime Minister, thank you for your full answer. You said you received the report on March 30... you probably meant you were going to receive it on that date. There's nothing to worry about. In any case, I note that a precise timetable for the work has been established. If I understand correctly, you want to land for this summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic130x.u22	Mr Van Hees, I am going to be very tolerant and ask you your question No. 3243 the question, although I had initially decided to consider the question withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic130x.u23	Mr. Chair, Prime Minister, the monitoring committee has delivered its figures. It is known that the budgetary adjustment will be significant: 1.2 billion, plus any requests from departments. With regard to the possibility of further reducing the expenditure put forward by the MR, I can only quote Mr Eric Van Rompuy, who is not just anyone: Chairman of the Finance Committee in the House, a member of your majority. According to him, we have already gone a long way in reducing spending on social security in particular. The results are there, the budget for unemployment benefits has fallen by 500 million. Ask Health Minister Maggie De Block if she can still save money. Measures have been taken to counter the costs of pre-pensions, family allowances. That's it, it's impossible to get money again! That's what Mr. Van Rompuy. At the PTB, we believe that new taxes should not be lifted for the population; I think you do not want it either. We propose a rather simple solution finally: a tax on big fortunes. I do not know if you will recognize the author of my second quote: "I have no difficulty in saying that people who have more means contribute more by tax, but not by ineffective measures that have no other interest but to be applauded triumphantly in a PTB assembly."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic130x.u24	Excellent statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic130x.u25	Excellent statement. You recognize your pen, Prime Minister. Simply, it's a little easy to come up with a technical argument to evacuate this issue from the tax on wealth. Luc Coene, who was until recently governor of the National Bank, says that from a technical point of view, it is perfectly feasible. What's keeping you, Prime Minister? Go ahead, free yourself, tax the great fortunes! Don't you think that's a good idea?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic130x.u26	Mr President, I had prepared an answer, but I don't know if I'm going to read it! Mr President, thank you for your exciting question. It is true that I dream of being applauded in the general assemblies of the PTB, but perhaps in another life!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic130x.u27	Luc Coene could be applauded!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic130x.u28	More seriously, we are facing a budgetary adjustment which, according to the Monitoring Committee report, amounts to EUR 1.2 billion. We expect in the coming days a supplementary report from the Supreme Council of Finance. Then, very classically, we started technical work with the expert groups to analyse expenditure and revenue and see how we could conclude a budget agreement. I do not intend to reveal here and now what the guidelines are. Decisions will be taken in the Council of Ministers. In the meantime, we will be available to explain our decisions to Parliament. In any case, I confirm my conviction that, in order to bring about solutions on the budgetary front, we must do so by maintaining the obsession to take measures as favourable as possible to the development of economic activity and the creation of jobs. This is the best way to finance our social protection in the long term. In contrast to you, I believe that solidarity and social protection are actually being undermined when we want to focus on those who create value and jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic130x.u29	Prime Minister, I think you're wrong. First of all, I would point out that an additional survey indicates that a large majority of the population defends the tax on wealth compared to other avenues, such as expenditure cuts or the increase in VAT. You're talking about economic development. But what's stopping him? The deficit today demonstrates this: it is your austerity policy that creates this hole in the budget! For sure, people don't have enough to consume, as you keep restricting their incomes. If you're going to look in this bad fat that is accumulated fortunes, if you're going to look in people who don't invest and tease that fortune, you can have a much more efficient economic development!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-25-54-commissie-ic130x.u30	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your presence and for your interesting input.
