ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic253x.u1	Colleagues, for an effective organisation of our work, I propose that you first address the five oral questions that are not related to climate and COP21. The authors of climate issues agree that they should be included in the discussion of the motion for a resolution on the same subject. Your comments will be included in the report of the discussions on the motion for a resolution on climate. Question No 5543 by Mrs Len Dierick is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic253x.u2	Madam Minister, I would like to come back with you to a subject which we have already discussed but which remains problematic, namely the illegal trade in tropical timber. Recently, an investigation carried out in Cameroon by the NGO Greenpeace tends to show that our country too laxly implements the European Union's rules in the field of wood, with the result that suspicious tropical wood would continue to reach our home, notably through the company Compagnie de Commerce et de Transport (CCT). Thus, according to the survey, the company in question would obtain in Cameroon from companies involved in illegal logging and would provide at least five Belgian companies. In view of the negative impacts both on deforestation and biodiversity destruction, but also on the national economies of the producing and importing countries, you will agree with me that action should be taken quickly and in a practical way. Minister, I have no doubt that you were able to learn about the investigation to which I referred. Do you agree with Greenpeace's findings, particularly with regard to the laxity of the relevant authorities? Do you intend to have the timber imported by the company in question seized for the time that the lawfulness of its provenance is clarified? Finally, what measures do you intend to take to bring about concrete solutions to limit the illegal trade in timber?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic253x.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I will join this question, which we have maintained because there is a strong bet that we will not be able to work on the resolution on the timber trade today. This will make it possible to have elements for the continuation of our work. Minister, in my question, I refer to the hearings we had and to the information you provided us last June on an increase in the 2016 budget to increase the number of public servants and to train new inspectors to improve the effectiveness of wood control. Did you get this increase in the 2016 budget discussions? Do you have more information on the increase in the number of inspectors assigned to strengthen the unit to combat illegal timber trade? You have announced a round table bringing together all the wood players in order to improve the implementation of the European Union's Wood Regulation. What are the planned outcomes and outcomes of this round table? An opinion poll shows that 85% of Belgians are in favour of better regulation and that the Belgian and European private sector – sixty-three companies and seven federations – are in favour of better regulation. This year, the European Commission assessed the application of the Belgian Regulation. Mr Senesael referred to the Greenpeace report on the trade in timber from Cameroon, recalling the need for action in this area. Since the hearings, have any specific measures been taken to reduce the risk of irregularity and to improve cooperation with other countries in the control and seizure of high-risk timber? What short-term measures are you planning to improve the effectiveness of the Regulation in Belgium? What follow-up have you given to Greenpeace's report on Cameroonian timber sold by companies located in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic253x.u4	Madam President, thank you for your questions. First of all, I will reply to Mr Senesael, who asked me about the information disclosed by Greenpeace. The administration monitors information on illegal logging. Depending on their relevance and accuracy, they are integrated into the risk-based control plan. That is the case for the report in question. You mentioned the seizures of the timber imported by the company in question. The lawfulness of its origin must be clarified. As a first step, it is necessary to conduct an inspection of the systems of reasonable diligence with respect to suspicious products. In order to seize the products, we must prove that they violate the legislation applicable in the country of origin. If the latter confirms that illegally acquired timber has arrived on the Belgian market, we will seize it in accordance with Article 4.1 of Regulation 995/2010. With regard to the short-term measures taken to bring about concrete solutions to limit illegal timber trade, we want to create, at Belgian level, a platform for discussion between the actors concerned on the risks of placing timber on the market linked to illegal logging and on the mitigation measures that can also be implemented. Since this is an issue related to international trade, we are developing contacts with producing countries and international organizations dealing with this issue. We requested additional commitments for the inspection team. This brings me to your first question, which is related to your last question. The number of inspections must increase. This type of regulation, which imposes new responsibilities on operators, without defining precisely how they are to be fulfilled or the result to be achieved, generates a wide range of interpretations which need to be reduced by promoting consultation between stakeholders. That is for the lessons of the past, which we can draw, at this stage. One of the objectives of the round table meeting was to define a framework for consultation among certain stakeholders. Some preferred to refuse to engage directly. The purpose of the proposed consultation was to jointly assess the risks associated with illegal timber harvesting in certain regions and possible mitigation measures. We agreed that subsequent contacts would be maintained in order to arrive at a framework for discussion that would be acceptable to all. At the moment, I have no details about the increase in the budget and the staff. This issue will be addressed in the coming weeks. The steps taken since June 2015 include the organization and preparation of the round table in September, in which I participated with my collaborator here. The purpose of the round table was to organize a framework for consultation that would help to reduce the risk of illegality. Furthermore, the Regulation does not provide for high-risk timber to be seized, but for this risk to be mitigated by measures taken by the operator. The competent authority shall be responsible for monitoring these measures. The latter may include the requirement for additional information or documents and/or the requirement for third-party verification. As I indicated to you, the request for additional resources for the inspection service in the budget will take place in the coming weeks. The short-term measures in this area are to concentrate our resources on carrying out inspections. In order to improve the quality of these crops, we would like to encourage dialogue between those who have expertise in the risk of illegal harvests in the producing countries. As far as your fifth question is concerned, I would like to refer you to the answer I gave to question No 151 put by Mr Nollet on 17 September 2015 and here is in substance what I indicated to him: the problems related to forest governance in Cameroon are not new and are regularly the subject of reports from associations and research institutes. The European Union has been carrying out development cooperation projects there for years under the FLEGT Action Plan, which you are well aware of in order to improve the situation. Given the quantities of wood imported into Belgium from Cameroon, the inclusion of the country's corruption perception index and the information we receive from different sources, Belgian operators placing wood products from that country on the market are given priority in our control plan. In addition, from March-April 2015, two days of meetings between the Greenpeace and WWF associations, the Belgian Federation of Timber Importers and the administration were organised. During these days, they were able to discuss the risks associated with illegal timber harvesting in that country and how to mitigate them, as well as the way in which DG Environment controls are carried out. As far as the five Belgian SMEs mentioned in this report are concerned, three have already been subject to checks on their due diligence obligations, as provided for in the regulation I mentioned earlier (EU/995/2010), which sets out the obligations of operators placing timber and timber products on the market. These undertakings were in order with the elements of the due diligence system, as described in Article 6 of that Regulation. We check that the other companies mentioned apply due diligence correctly and legally. With regard to one of the companies mentioned in the first version of the report, Greenpeace acknowledged that it had made an error with respect to the name of one of them. We have a permanent exchange to adjust the data. Furthermore, we also examined whether the Cameroonian company in question had exported CITES-covered timber to Belgium, which is not the case. As far as all CITES timber exports from Cameroon to Belgium are concerned, the documentary checks carried out in Belgium have so far revealed no infringement of this legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic253x.u5	I thank the minister for her answer and I believe that the debate can be continued when the motion for a resolution is examined.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic253x.u6	Minister, thank you also for your answer. We will be able to process this new information in the context of the discussion of the resolution. I insist that you fight, during the discussions on the 2016 budget, to have enough inspectors and to go beyond the mere guarantee given by governments about the legality of exported timber.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic253x.u7	Madam President, Minister, Dutch Railways have been using paints with chromium-6 carcinogens for many years. I have the following questions. Is paint with this carcinogenic substance also used in Belgium in the public services or in SNCB? How many people get in touch with that? Are there any acute risks for the staff? Is there a danger to public health? Are sufficient protective measures taken so that no one can breathe this substance? I hope that you will not forward me to the Minister of Mobility or to the Minister of Public Administration or the Minister of Health, but that you will give me an answer yourself this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic253x.u8	Madam President, I will reply in Dutch and therefore speak more slowly. Unfortunately, Mrs Dedry, some elements of your question, in particular those under a, b and d, belong to the competence of my colleagues who manage Work and Mobility. To your question under c, about the risks to the staff, I can answer the following. Chrome-6 can be used in paint for its anticorrosive properties. Chrome-6 may cause cancer or genetic damage, damage fertility or the unborn child, may be fatal by inhalation and may cause allergic reactions. When processing the paint, exposure can occur through the lungs or the skin. At the level of the European Chemicals Agency, several chromium compounds have been identified as substances of very high concern and listed in Annex XIV of the list of substances for which authorisation is to be obtained from the Council concerning the registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The content of chromium in cement and leather goods is already very limited by reference to Annex XVII to REACH.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic253x.u9	Madam Minister, since you only replied to question c, I will have to ask the other questions to your fellow Members. I would have liked you to give me some figures on the powers of your fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic253x.u10	Madam President, Minister, it seems that the government is about to remove a large part of the public funds to aspire the amounts of these funds to the Treasury. The Budget Office has listed funds destined to disappear. The operation would cover more than €1.2 billion. Could you tell us what is happening with the Kyoto Fund? Remember, during your hearing at the very beginning of the legislature, that this fund had $53 million and that it was not part of the federal budget since it was managed by CREG. You also committed $3.8 million annually from the Kyoto Fund to be allocated to the operating costs of the Climate Change Service. Can you confirm that today and reassure us that the Kyoto Fund will not be covered by the proposed measure? If not, what other sustainable sources of funding are you planning for the missions currently funded by the Fund, particularly for the Climate Change Service?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic253x.u11	Madam Chair, as I indicated, the Climate Change Service within my administration should continue to exist. Indeed, I must be able to rely on this administration for the preparation and implementation of the climate policy actions included in the government agreement, in the policy statement for the legislature and in my general policy note for 2015. In the latter, I am committed to ensuring that federal climate policy can continue to rely on adequate funding. This commitment is not only valid on the eve of the great Paris Conference, but also for the politics of the years to come. Paris is not the end of this policy but the starting point for future policy in which Belgium will have to play its part. With regard to the Kyoto Fund, which is the instrument of this funding, I should like to inform you that, on 1 October 2015, the Council of Ministers decided to provisionally maintain the small Kyoto Fund, the 25-7 budget fund used to finance both the activities of the Climate Change Service and its staff, since its establishment in 2003. The Council of Ministers also decided to continue until 2017 to feed this small Kyoto Fund from the reserves of the large Kyoto Fund to which you refer, which is in fact an account managed by the CREG and which actually still has 55 million euros of reserve earmarked by law to finance the federal climate policy. However, I would like to inform you, in full transparency, that the government's decision only provides for the provisional maintenance of these Funds and that the maintenance of the budgetary fund will be discussed again at the latest at the time of the preparation of the 2017 budget. It will be important to find a lasting solution within the government before this deadline, given the primordial challenges of climate policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic253x.u12	Madam Minister, I am concerned about your answer, for which I thank you. A few months ago, you spoke with certainty about the maintenance of the Climate Change Service and today you use the conditional. Change is not just semantic; it introduces a doubt when we know that this service carries out, in the face of climate challenges, extremely important work for Belgium and more globally at European level. You also cast doubt on the funding mechanism. At the beginning of this legislature, you guaranteed that it was sustainable, it was planned every year – I have before me the text of your speech of the time. Today, you tell us that the guarantee is only planned until 2017, and you insist on the term "temporary". Minister, this answer is a matter of concern to us. In my view, it is not unrelated to the debate we will have earlier about the federal government's lack of ambition on climate policy. I'll have a chance to get back.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic253x.u13	Madam President, Minister, from 25 to 27 September the United Nations Summit on Sustainable Development was held, at which the 17 Sustainable Development Goals, now the 2030 Agenda, were adopted. At present, States must translate this overall 15-year framework into action plans at the national, regional and local levels, and ensure their implementation and follow-up. Minister, what strategy are you going to develop in order to translate this global framework into concrete actions in the areas that fall within your purview? Moreover, it appears that you have commissioned a study on the impact of the circular economy in Belgium. Which agency is in charge of this study? When do you expect the results?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic253x.u14	Madam President, Mr Senesael, to answer your question, I will start with the title of a text that was adopted at the United Nations summit at the end of September: Transforming our world, the 2030 sustainable development agenda. This text proposes a reorientation of our mode of development in order to implement human rights and respect the environmental limits of our planet. It therefore covers a wide range of ambitious objectives in order to meet the main contemporary societal challenges. This ambition is reflected in the characteristics of these sustainable development goals, which constitute a set of indivisible, integrated objectives, i.e. linked to each other, and balanced on the multiple dimensions of sustainable development. Moreover, they are universal and are therefore addressed to all countries. We must therefore, too, implement these objectives. Given the very broad nature of this programme, it will have to be implemented by all public authorities in the country, but also through the mobilization of civil society, including the private sector. The broad delegation of the federal government to the summit clearly shows that it affects the entire jurisdiction of the government. As stated in the government agreement, "within the limits of its jurisdiction, the government will make sustainable development a key objective of its policy". It is in this sense that we are acting. It will therefore be important to ensure that all ministers and federal governments commit to integrating sustainable development goals into their policies. In this way, we will be able to demonstrate how federal policies contribute to these objectives. Today, within the framework of my competences in the field of sustainable development, four main avenues are being considered. First, the aim is to stimulate cooperation between federated entities and the federal state in order to ensure the synergies necessary to achieve the objectives in a coherent and coordinated manner. The Interdepartmental Conference on Sustainable Development will be the appropriate forum for organizing this coordination. In addition, since 1997 the Federal State has had a Federal Sustainable Development Strategy through the Act of 5 May 1997. Sustainable development goals can give it a new impetus. The aim will be to translate these objectives into the instruments provided for in the Act or, in any case, to ensure their consistency. Consider, for example, the long-term vision that proposes targets for 2050, adopted in 2013, and its objectives that are implemented in the next federal plan, the federal reports of the Federal Office of the Plan, the activities of the Interdepartmental Commission on Sustainable Development and the Federal Council on Sustainable Development. I have also asked the Committee for an opinion on the suggestions for the implementation of the sustainable development goals. Finally, given the importance of this programme, I have also asked the Federal Institute for Sustainable Development to integrate the objectives into its work programme, so as to propose, from the beginning of 2016, a series of specific actions in the field of communication in order to publicise these objectives. This federal sustainable development strategy is the driving force behind government policy and encourages the development of integrated policies. But, in addition to these cross-cutting policies, it will be crucial to also encourage the integration of objectives into federal public service (FPS) strategies. In this way, through the realization of their core business, the SPF will also contribute to the achievement of the objectives. Instruments have been developed to ensure this integration. I will ensure the proper use of the tools that have been developed for this purpose and will attach particular importance to the coordination of reporting at the federal level in order to clearly demonstrate our commitment to achieving the objectives. Finally, the fourth track envisaged aims, of course, to encourage civil society to take ownership of the objectives, as public authorities alone will not be enough to meet the ambition of this agenda. The aim will be to encourage organisations, businesses and citizens to commit themselves to taking action to contribute to these objectives. The Environment DG commissioned a study on the impact of the circular economy in Belgium. In partnership with the ICEDD (Institut de Conseil et d'Études en Développement Durable) and the English office Hollins, PwC is in charge of its implementation. Final results are expected by the end of December.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic253x.u15	Minister, thank you for your answers, which will be analyzed.
