ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u1	Mr President, Minister, when a minor is placed in foster care and natural parents are obliged to settle a dispute with the child's foster family, article 44 of the Act of 8 April 1965 stipulates, inter alia, that the territorial jurisdiction of the juvenile court is determined by the competence of the persons exercising parental authority or, in the case of joint exercise by separated persons, by the residence of the person with whom the young person habitually resides. It is further stated that "the change of residence of the persons concerned leads to the divestiture – and that is where I am going – of this youth court, unless the youth judge, the public prosecutor's office or the parents request the continuation of the application of the court of custody to the court of appeal". The consequence of the latter part of Article 44 may be detrimental in terms of the efficiency of justice. Depending on the case, it may even find an application that I would not hesitate to consider as a generator of abuse. Indeed, if natural parents move regularly for reasons of their own, the attachment file also changes judicial district and follows the parents' residence, with all the consequences that this implies: referral to a new court, divestiture of another, change of counsel since the said files are often handled in the Office of Legal Aid (BAJ), etc. A form of abuse can also be assumed if the parents in question move in order to make the decision last. Minister, in the interests of the child, is it not possible to amend the law so that the case remains in the judicial district where the minor officially resides? Having consulted parliamentary documents, I realized that in 2011, that was the original intention of the honourable members of the House's Justice Committee. On the other hand, senators considered it more appropriate to amend rule 44. Personally, I think it was a mistake.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, I can confirm to you that territorial jurisdiction was in fact regulated differently in the first draft of the project for the establishment of a family and youth court. In this version, jurisdiction was defined by the place of residence or, failing that, the habitual residence of the minor. It is true that no settlement was foreseen in the event of a move of the latter – which could lead to various problems. However, at the time, the legislator considered it more logical to determine the territorial jurisdiction of the family and youth court on the basis of the parents, not the foster parents or the institution, although it often happens that minors who are the subject of a placement measure are not domiciled with their natural parents. For example, more than half of minors placed by the Brussels Youth Court are sent to foster families or institutions outside the district. This means that the first version of the draft would have caused difficulties. The College of Prosecutors-General has also made it very clear that no significant changes should be made to territorial competence, particularly in order to avoid conflicts with the regulations in force in the Communities. It is also necessary to point out that a monitoring mechanism has indeed been incorporated into the law. Article 44(5) provides that the change of residence shall entail the divestiture of that court for the benefit of the juvenile court of the district in which the new residence is situated unless the juvenile court, the public prosecutor's office or a parent requests the continuation of the referral to the juvenile court already before it. It is therefore also possible to request that the same court remain seized of the case, which hinders abuse. The case law also shows that the court is attentive to possible problems and that the actual willingness of the parent(s) to move to the new home is verified. To determine this, the fact that you often move is a factor that can be taken into account. A certain continuity of the assistance provided to the minor is in his interest. Finally, I can point out that the network of expertise of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the field of youth protection is currently preparing an adaptation of Circular No. 3/2011 on the territorial jurisdiction of the Youth Court and the territorial divestiture, in which we will discuss the consequences of the amendment of Article 44 which took place in 2013 and entered into force on 1 September 2014. For all these reasons, you will understand that an amendment to this Act is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u3	Indeed, Minister. These reasons seem to me to be entirely relevant. I didn't know. I'll be happy to read your answer to that. I also hear that a circular will settle matters on the ground. It's in the best interests of the child. The legis ratio was to protect the child. If that will is maintained, I am delighted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u4	Mr President, Minister, you are undoubtedly aware of the judgment of the Council of State of 29 April 2015. That judgment is based on the principle that all conditions for the issue of an arms licence must be listed in the law and that an arms licence shall be issued as soon as these conditions are met. It has been known for years that the provincial arms services of the governors like to include personal motives and attach additional conditions to the issuing of an arms license. In the case dealt with before the Council of State, an East Flemish sportsman was refused the licence to acquire new weapons because he could submit an insufficient number of shootings. The number of shootings is therefore a new condition. Such additional conditions cannot be imposed by the provincial arms services or, as a degree of appeal, by the Ministry of Justice. However, the attitude of a number of officials who in the past did not hesitate to ignore the judgments of the Council of State is worrying. This is evident from the reports of the interprovincial meetings of the arms services. I quote from the report of 29 September 2011: 'We are not going to follow those judgments'. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. I suppose you agree with me that statements by federal officials not to follow the Council of State rulings cannot be accepted. What instruments will you use to avoid this in the future? Were it not appropriate to consider a simplified procedure for obtaining arms licences and not to entrust this to the provincial services in order to avoid any compulsion?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u5	Mr De Groote, it goes without saying that judicial decisions under the rule of law must be respected by all and applied by the administration a fortiori. So I would not accept that my administration would decide not to do so. Allow me to clarify that the 2011 discussion you mentioned was about two very specific judgments of the Council of State, both from 1 September of that year. The first judgment concerned the possibility of buying and registering weapons not declared or declared late after the transitional period of the new arms law of 2006. An application for such so-called illegal weapons to be registered by their buyer was refused at the time by the competent authorities. The Council of State annulled that decision and found that the law does not know the concept of "illegal weapons', as explained in the Ministerial circular of 29 October 2010. However, on 22 November 2011, the applicant's appeal was again dismissed on the basis of new motives according to the administration, but the Council of State annulled that decision on 20 December 2012 for a breach of the authority of res judicata of the first judgment. Since then, my administration has followed that case law of the Council of State. The second judgment surprised the administration. In the present case, it concerned the way in which individual citizens were informed about the new law of 2006 and about the transitional period. Only in the administrative district of Brussels-Capital did the administration spontaneously send individual warnings, which the law did not prescribe. According to that judgment, in the other provinces, in the absence of such individual letters of warning, the late applications for authorisation were inadmissible under the principle of equality. The Council of State has now returned to that ruling by a new judgment, delivered in another case on 18 December 2014 by the unified Chambers of the Administrative Court Department. They have found that this notification is not a legal requirement and that every citizen is still deemed to know the law. Nemo censetur ignorare legem . This does not, of course, prejudice the principle of constitutional equality. The Federal Armaments Service and the former Minister for the Interior have made it clear that the governors are supposed to apply the law in a uniform manner. The Federal Weapons Service has just been set up to issue uniform guidelines on behalf of the Minister of Justice. The governors are supposed to follow them. If official policy as a result of the case law of the Council of State needs to be adjusted, this must indeed be done. The old arms bill left the responsibility for issuing weapons licenses largely to the local police chiefs. This led to even greater inequality and arbitrariness. That is why the powers in this area are centralized by the governors under the functional leadership of the Federal Armed Forces. Indeed, this has not eliminated all the differences, but the creation of a large central service was not budgetaryly feasible and would bring services far from the citizen. The practice should indeed be improved, but all governors should follow the same principles, as they are informed on behalf of the Minister by the Federal Armament Service and in accordance with the case law of the Council of State. Moreover, I have asked my administration to prepare the necessary adjustments, including the ministerial circular, in accordance with the case law and in accordance with the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. I am pleased to hear that you are in favour of the same principle, namely that judgments should be followed in any case. I am also pleased that you are seeking uniformity and that you indicate to the governors that they are supposed to follow the laws. I do not understand an argument in your speech. You say that the distance with the citizen is too great in certain changes. I don't think that's what's going on here. All procedures for issuing arms licences, either at first instance or at the level of appeal, are mainly written procedures. The criterion close to the citizen can therefore be difficult to count. I await with interest your circular letter and then see if anything can be improved. I believe that we will certainly be able to find each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u7	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, on Monday, May 18, early in the afternoon, following a significant shortage of staff, police personnel ceased to operate at the courthouse because they felt insecure. However, several major trials were held there, including the 50th Chamber terrorist organization hearing, as well as a drug trafficking trial in the 61st Chamber. Staff on duty at the checkpoint, the scanstraat, could not be relayed as usual. The officers therefore dismantled the control system in place, allowing everyone to enter the building. In doing so, the other security services decided not to extract detainees from the palace cells, given the importance of the ongoing trials and the high risks they posed. The judiciary, particularly the Attorney General, said that he was tired of the almost constant lack of security and professional conscience. The spokesman for the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office recalled on 26 May that the judiciary was in danger and that the bar was showing its exasperation rightly. Minister, the engagement of security personnel at the courthouse has, to hear you, started well. But another possibility is to mobilize additional police officers to ensure overall security within the courthouse. Is this possible? If so, in what form? Are you considering additional recruitment or increased engagement? If so, what police services would be involved? How can coordination between the palace security corps and the police be improved? What is the exact nature of the cooperation between the security corps of the courthouse and the police services of Brussels-Capital-Ixelles which is the area concerned? Why have they not been able to provide additional staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u8	Minister, I too have a question about the recruitment of security officers. Due to a shortage of personnel, the security forces were no longer able to perform their duties adequately. The Brussels Security Corps was also forced to close the public entrance to the Palace of Justice, which even delayed a large number of sessions. It was positive to hear that recruitments were unblocked. However, I have heard that recruitment is lagging behind for more than a month and a half, while the normal route would take two months. What is the status of the delay in the recruitment of security officers? Is anything being done to get rid of that backlog?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u9	Mr Minister, the facts are well known and have also been cited by my fellow Members. On Saturday 23 May, the prosecutor rang the alarm about the problems in the Brussels courts due to the lack of security personnel, which meant that courts had to be closed and hearings postponed. The problem has been going on for a long time, but it seems that it has been getting worse in recent weeks. So it is high time to find solutions. You offered an emergency solution and announced reinforcements a few days later, including through the deployment of a private security company. You decided to support the Corps for a limited period of time, until the start of the judicial leave, with qualified personnel from a surveillance firm. They will man the scanner under the guidance of the existing security corps. Recently, funds were also made available for new recruitments. Open Vld is convinced that the government must deal with its core tasks, including security. In our view, the monitoring of courts and courts can certainly be outsourced in part and is not a core task for the police. Can you tell me, Minister, how long the problem of staff shortages has been going on? In the meantime, can you confirm that a private security firm supports the security force in a sound manner? Is there any possibility of an extension of that contract or does the contract end effectively at the start of the judicial leave? How much money have been made available for new recruitments? How many extra staff are we talking about? Do you share our group's view that the monitoring of courts and courts is not a central task of the police and can possibly be outsourced?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked to deal with these issues together. Indeed, all relate to the sensitive debate about the security of Poelaert campus. In general, the security of the Poelaert campus justice buildings is ensured by the Brussels-Capital-Ixelles police zone. It has several patrols on a daily basis, both in the courthouse and in its annexes. The presence of police officers is also sought and implemented at hearings with a particular risk. If the capacity of the local police is insufficient, it can use the federal police and other police areas. Coordination between the local police and the security forces is ensured in the field by level A managers of each organization. Agreements on coordination and division of labour between police and security forces were formalized at the end of 2013 in the form of a Memorandum of Understanding. This protocol, of a temporary nature, expired in October 2014 and is currently under review. The request made by the local police to the security forces to implement a permanent access check at the entrance to the courthouse and the Portalis building mobilizes personnel that the security corps can no longer assign to the execution of its basic missions. Deferral accounts are not kept centrally. In addition, although postponements are mostly related to the lack of security personnel, other reasons may explain them. My office and my administration are currently in contact with the police chiefs of the Brussels-Capital-Ixelles police force in order to provide practical solutions to the problems encountered, so as to restore a correct service to the litigants without awaiting the entry into service of the reinforcement already announced. As mentioned earlier, 20 additional security officers will be recruited. There is no delay in the recruitment procedure. It should only be borne in mind that in the first instance the existing recruitment reserves are being examined and that the laureates are being examined to see if they are still interested in the job. As they also have to undergo group training, it is also intended to recruit them at the same time. It should also be borne in mind that among the laureates there may be people who are already working elsewhere and who therefore have to perform a period of notice. If all goes well, they can start their training at the end of September or early October. The training shall cover all aspects of the mission of the security corps and shall take 46 working days plus 10 days for an internship. They can then be fully deployed. The unit of the Brussels security corps works for three police entities: the Brussels-Capital-Ixelles area which manages the Brussels courthouse, the Midi area which manages Brussels prisons and the Federal Police which manages the inter-prisoner services. The various positions held by security personnel in the Brussels courthouse have been increased in recent months as a result of threats to the building. The movement of personnel to the access control areas has derailed the personnel in charge of appearances. In addition, the federal government has been stopped from recruiting for a long period of time, resulting in a decrease in the overall framework of the security corps. This is therefore a shortage of staff that will be filled by the recruitment of these 20 officers. Structurally, the security corps is a police support service that ensures, according to law, continuity of service. The security of the Brussels Justice Palace and the deployment of the security corps are closely monitored by my cabinet and administration. The members of the corps shall daily do their best to carry out their duties properly. In order to provide the necessary support in the short term, an assignment was launched for the external crew of the scan street in a few days' time. The company G4S was appointed and has been present on the premises since 1 June 2011 on Monday until the start of the court leave. After that, there is only an ad hoc meeting possible on days when there is a problem, but this is very limited. All the tasks highlighted in this discussion, to be carried out by the security corps or the police, are part of the current consultations, including with the Minister of the Interior. I have said before that I am in favour of unity of command, in order to avoid the practical problems on the ground. There are discussions about this with Mr Jambon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u11	Minister, thank you for your response and for your efforts in recruiting additional officers. I stress the need for the implementation of this memorandum of understanding, which is under negotiation with the Brussels police areas. The security of the courthouse is an imperative for both the federal and local police.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u12	Minister, I have the impression that the problem is being worked on. I am pleased with that. Keep up the good work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u13	Minister, I am pleased that you are consulting with your fellow Minister Jambon. In our view, one of the key tasks in the debate is to ensure that everyone carries out their core tasks. In the context of an integrated security policy, it is important that every task is carried out by the most appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u14	Mr President, Minister, a few weeks ago the Gaming Commission organised a seminar in Brussels, which called for a new vision of gambling and betting offices. Among other things, the Gaming Commission has itself stated that there are already quite a few betting offices in our country. The legal ceiling is 1 000, but the Gaming Commission believes that there are 400 too many and that this should be reconsidered. Over the last few months and years we have also noticed that the publicity for online gambling is increasing and is more aggressive in the street. Questions are also asked. A third element I would like to quote is the database of excluded players. Belgium has been in possession of this since 2004. However, it appears that that database is not yet connected to the National Register, which makes identification and recognition difficult. It would therefore be useful to link the database with the National Register for good practice and good recognition. Thus, the identity of allowed players can be verified immediately. Minister, what is your position on the question of the Gaming Commission? Should a new vision be drawn up on gambling and betting offices? Do you agree with the opinion of the Gaming Commission that there are already enough betting offices and that there would be too much at the maximum number of 400? Is there something to be done about the moratorium? Secondly, how do you evaluate the current massive publicity for online gambling games? How can players, especially minors, be better protected, in dialogue with all concerned? Finally, what are the shortcomings of the EPIS database? What are the ambitions to combat gambling addiction even more effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u15	Mr Mathot is not here to ask his question. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u16	Mr President, on the occasion of its 15th anniversary, on 15 January last, the Gaming Commission initiated a gambling policy based on a balance between a free, legally permitted market as an exception to the principle ban on gambling, which is controlled and restricted, taking into account the interests of the player's protection, in particular the minor player. The general principles can be found on the website of the Gaming Commission. The aim is to check the supply side. The number of Class IV gaming devices in Belgium today is 617. It is currently being examined whether the number of betting offices can be limited to 600. The purpose of the seminar on 27 May was to consult the municipalities on this issue. In 2010, there was no control. The law did not come into force until 1 January 2011. 2011 was the year in which operators submitted their licence applications. In 2011, 80 cases were refused. In 2012: 23, 2013: 34, 2014: 18 and 2015: 8 cases were refused on the basis of the control file. Licence refusals were motivated by the lateness of the application, the sale of alcohol in the agencies and the failure of new betting agencies to comply with the 1,000 metre rule compared to existing agencies. The most common offences were the participation of minors or their presence in betting agencies, non-exploitation despite a licence granted, incomplete registration, the sale of alcohol and the absence of a compulsory D licence. Dispersal within the territory of the municipality is ensured by the obligation to respect a distance of 1,000 metres between each establishment. This measure avoids concentrations of betting agencies in urban centres. A restriction on the market also means that publicity is controlled. While there used to be only advertising from the National Lottery and from some foreign sites, which promoted large bonuses of up to 5 000 euros, the advertising offer in the street and television image has increased considerably with the advent of the licensed websites. In order to strengthen the channeling of players to legal websites, the intention is to place the royal decisions on internet gambling on the political agenda by the end of 2015. The restriction of advertising will be regulated. At the meeting of the Gaming Commission on 4 February, I specifically asked for advertising to be controlled by agreeing rules with the sector and in consultation with the social sector organisations. A working group of experts will soon be set up, which will be accompanied by the Jury for Ethics, the so-called JEP, to develop a coherent approach through publicity for all games of chance. A number of mandatory rules on the volume, periodicity and timing of publicity are laid down in the royal decisions on Internet games, which are in preparation. The aim is to bring players to the licensed offer, where minors are excluded, without any socially unacceptable incentive to play. Minors are, after all, protected from the online offer by being held back by the player key for the licensed websites. This is not the case for unauthorized websites, which the Gaming Commission continuously investigates and checks. With the recent award of the computer file of the Gaming Commission, the aim is, among other things, to make the EPIS system, which regulates the exclusion of players, more coherent. Today it is still possible to create false accounts. The electronic link with the National Register should improve this. The administration of the National Register and the Gaming Commission are currently trying to achieve that connection technically. It should be noted that Belgium is leading the way in terms of the protection of players and the regulation of the market. Today, around 280 000 players are excluded, indicating that the Gaming Commission manages to control that market in an acceptable manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hear that the questions of the Game Commission will also be put on the political agenda, at least those on the adequacy of the moratorium and growing publicity, and that discussions will be held in the coming months. That is good, and I thank you for that. As far as the database is concerned, I would ask you to establish the link with the National Register as soon as possible. Control must also be made more coherent. It is a good thing that the Gaming Commission and all the forces working on it ensure that many players can be excluded, although this is not so much about excluding players as about responsible betting offices and gambling, taking into account the concerns of partners and, among other things, minors. It is good that Belgium is following this policy. The questions of the Gaming Commission certainly need to be answered. It is good that this is being handled politically.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u18	Question No 4650 by Mrs Isabelle Poncelet has been transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u19	Minister, a few weeks ago, new data showed that numerous European telecom lines were split up in 2005 and also in the following years and passed on to the German intelligence service BND, which then passed them on to the US secret service NSA. This service had passed on priority lines to the German intelligence service, including 15 from Belgium. In total, there are some 134 lines in 31 European countries that were tapped in Frankfurt. The 15 Belgian lines are on a priority list of transit lines intercepted by Deutsche Telekom from Brussels or Paris to other countries in Frankfurt. It is surprising that friendly European Member States are spying on each other. For example, this could also be political or economic espionage, which is also a suspicion. Meanwhile, colleague Alexander De Croo has asked for a study at BIPT. We have also been informed that you have requested an investigation into the security of the State. Meanwhile, after submitting the question, I have also learned that the federal prosecutor's office has started an investigation. I have the following questions. First of all, do you confirm that an investigation has been requested into the security of the state? Secondly, if so, which studies will be carried out exactly and who will be involved in any cooperation? Thirdly, have you, as Minister of Justice, contacted your German colleague of Justice or other members of the German Government for further explanation? If so, what is the reaction from Germany? If not, why not? Fourthly, when can the initial results of the research requested be expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u20	Mr Van Hecke, I can confirm that state security has launched an investigation as a result of the revelations in the German media at the end of April. The purpose of that investigation is to verify whether and to what extent Belgian targets have actually been the subject of the alleged espionage activities of the German intelligence service BND. However, I cannot go into the question of exactly which investigations will be carried out and who will possibly cooperate with. The necessary secrecy in an intelligence investigation does not allow that. However, it can be said that the security of the State has already taken the first useful steps and that a series of investigative measures has been envisaged. I come to the questions that deal with the possible legal consequences of espionage cases. Unfortunately, I cannot give you detailed information on the judicial investigations under way, because of the separation of powers and the need to preserve the secrecy of the investigation. On the basis of the information provided by the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, however, I can inform you that the Federal Public Prosecutor has opened an investigation following information on possible cooperation between the German and American intelligence services in intercepting 15 Belgian telecommunications lines. I can also tell you, more generally, that there are several open investigations concerning serious intrusions using complex and intrusive malware, in jargon of advanced still threats. In some cases, there are indications of links with foreign services. In several cases, victims were not aware that their information systems had been the subject of such intrusion. They were informed and advised about the measures to be taken to protect their systems. Where an investigation allows sufficient evidence to be gathered to prosecute specific individuals or institutions, it will be referred to the correctional court. Due to the complexity of the malware used in the context of espionage and the massive means mobilized to blur the leads by those who carry out these intrusions, it should be noted that this type of case rarely leads to criminal prosecution for espionage. This is a recurring observation, both at Belgian level and abroad. Finally, on the question of possible contacts with members of the German Government, I refer to the Prime Minister's reply last week in the Committee on the Interior. The measures to be taken by the government will be subject to the results of the ongoing State Security Research, the Federal Security Office and the BIPT. It is impossible to tell you today when the investigations will be closed by the services concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u21	Minister, it is quite clear that the government is taking the matter seriously and that the necessary investigations have been launched. The fact that the federal prosecutor has also started an investigation also means that it still has a number of elements to suggest that more research is necessary. That is a good thing. We will, of course, continue to follow the dossier. I understand that you cannot go into detail about the investigations that are going on today, but at least I hope that they will give some clarity in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u22	Mr President, the Panorama broadcast of 21 May on experts in traffic matters was mainly about medical examinations and findings. This broadcast has highlighted the need for independent judicial experts. When looking at the reportage, people felt that there was a conflict of interest and questions could be asked about the accuracy of the expertise. However, judicial experts are important because they have to formulate an answer to often technical questions. A judge usually spends such questions because he himself does not have the necessary expertise on the most diverse subjects. The answers often determine the court's decision. The importance of the opinion and the competence of the experts is therefore not to be underestimated. You know that in 2014 we adopted a legislative proposal on the establishment of a national register of experts. That bill also included a number of access conditions, including the formatting of a deontological code that would be drawn up through a KB. Through this deontological code, additional safeguards could also be built in through a specific procedure, in accordance with independence. We know that the actual creation of this register will still have a lot of ground to cover. I would like to thank you once again explicitly for ensuring that the approved bill has been published in the Belgian Official Journal. This had not yet happened in the previous legislature. This way the departure date can be set. That is why there are a number of specific questions about what can be done in the meantime to meet them. What is the state of play with regard to the drafting of a specific deontological code for legal experts? That deontological code is linked to recognition through the register, but can such deontological code be declared applicable or respected in any way? What's your vision on that? Do you intend to introduce any other form of prohibition, on the one hand, on the cumulation of the status of legal expert and, on the other hand, on the regular conduct of an insurance company? Can we do that? What about the possible incompatibility between the two?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u23	Minister, a few months ago, I was contacted by victims of an accident involved in a lawsuit about determining their damage. They spoke to me about their bad experiences with the insurance companies and the court, especially the medical judicial experts. After that, I started talking to various organizations, from patient organizations to insurance companies. If I want to share one conclusion from all these conversations, it's that the victims deserve to get a proper and objective investigation. Determining whether or not physical damage is very complex. Here in this committee, I would like to ask you to reconsider the role of the medical judicial experts. It is they who often in complex cases, when an accident leads to injuries that are not always visible or medically defined, must be able to inform the judge about the medical side of the case, in order to arrive at a correct decision. This is the most important and difficult task for which they must be able to be completely neutral. That's where the shoe pinches. The world of judicial medical experts is incredibly small. People with legal and medical knowledge are employed by insurance companies and the Justice Department to determine damage, but they have a different purpose in the two authorities: the insurance company wants to pay as little as possible and the court wants to be able to make a correct decision. When the same expert works at the same time in court and the insurance company, it seems to me that we have a potential problem of conflict of interest. As of next year, a national register of judicial experts and interpreters will be set up under the law of Ms Becq, adopted in 2014. However, this database does not solve the fundamental problem. The centralisation of the lists of judicial experts brings transparency, but does not prevent bias. It seems to me that a choice has to be made: either a medical expert works in court, or for the insurance company. Victims cannot go through procedures with ease when they know that their expert works the day after for an insurance company they are now fighting against. Minister, it is a complex matter and I think we will be able to discuss a lot during the hearings. It's our job to get malpractice out of our system. Where do you stand on the implementation decision of the national register? Do you think that a national register is sufficient to remove the blur of conflict of interest? What are your views on the idea of imposing a decumulative charge on medical judicial experts?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u24	Ms Becq, Ms Vanheste, for the purposes of the Law of 10 April 2014 establishing a national register of legal experts and a national register of sworn translators, interpreters and translators, a project group was set up at the FPS Justice. Today, moreover, there is a study day on this law for legal experts and interpreters organised by the NICC and the CEP. The project group prepares, inter alia, the drafting of the various royal decisions necessary for the entry into force of the law. Article 991quater, 7°, provides for a deontological code to be drawn up by the King and a sub-group deals with deontology. Given the differences between experts, on the one hand, and translators, on the other hand, a deontology is likely to be developed for each category separately. Special attention shall be paid to the incompatibility and, where appropriate, the prohibition of acting as one-sided expert or advisor to a Party. This must not, of course, lead to an occupational ban. The text is being consulted with associations of experts which already have a code of ethics. Once published, the deontological code will apply only to the experts entered in the register. During a transitional period of five years, the experts currently appointed may continue to be appointed without being entered in the register. The Law of 10 April 2014 does not determine whether the deontological code already applies to them. That also seems difficult to implement, because the code is linked to the inclusion on the list. On the other hand, it remains for a magistrate to decide on the appointment of an expert. There is nothing to prevent the courts, in the context of their good practices, from recommending during the transitional period that only experts who are willing to accept the code should be appointed. That is, of course, the competence of the judicial system. The reason for your question was the appearance of an expert as a legal expert and then as an advisor to an insurer. A deontological code will certainly have to provide for an expert to be independent and objective. This does not even require a code, because the expert can already be called into question because of a lack of impartiality. A complete ban on acting as one-sided or technical counsel goes much further and is much more difficult to control. The Law of 10 April 2014 provides for a possibility of suspension or deletion, but only on the proposal of certain magistrates. Perhaps it would be better to set up a deontological committee with investigative powers. I will certainly take into account your concern in the further implementation of the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which offers prospects. At the time, we provided for a very long transitional period, both in terms of workability and in order to prevent many experts from dropping out. You are working on the layout of the royal decree on deontology and you will ask magistrates and judges, even if you cannot order them, to take account of this already as if the deontological code had already been approved by royal decree, code that cannot yet be required, since the law cannot yet be implemented. I certainly hope that you will get results as soon as possible. In addition, you offer the perspective on the installation of a deontological committee. It is indeed important to ensure that the story is followed up. You also said that incompatibility is part of such a code. During the preparation of the law, this was indeed one of the points that kept coming back: for whom does someone act?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u26	Minister, I am glad that you share our concern. Mr President, after the Panorama broadcast, we received a great deal of reactions from all parties: from insurance, from medical experts, from patients. They want to be heard and, in my view, they have the right to tell their stories. Then we can draw conclusions. In this way we can avoid misunderstandings and ensure that one act righteously and the other are treated justly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u27	Mr Terwingen being absent, you have the floor, Mr Massin, for your question concerning the courthouse in Hasselt. You will be followed by Mrs. Wouters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u28	Minister, a year and a half after the opening of the Hasselt courthouse, there is still no maintenance contract. The consequences for the palace are quite disastrous. In fact, the windows of the building are not washed but above all the technical installations lack maintenance. These problems affect air quality and humidity. No window in this 13-storey building can be opened. For staff, it is difficult to work in such an environment. For this reason, the president of the Hasselt court has given you until 15 June 2015 to make a formal commitment, otherwise he plans to close the building. Minister, the date of June 15 is out of date. I didn't see or hear that the building was closed. I take it that measures have been taken. When I put my question, I asked when you were planning to take action for this courthouse and if not, if you were to fear a closure of the building for lack of a quick solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u29	Mr President, Minister, on 2 June 2015, Het Belang van Limburg reported that the President of the Hasselt Court, Tony Heeren, had formally failed you because no maintenance contract has been signed since the official opening of the Palace of Justice one and a half years ago. The court president wants a solution by 15 June, date that has already expired. The court has just enough staff to ensure justice, but it is above all the working conditions due to the lack of a maintenance contract that frightens the chairman for the welfare of his 400 staff. For example, there are major air quality problems, there is damage to air conditioning due to the failure of electricity and to other technical installations, lampshades have been removed because they threatened to fall down, etc. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Why was it failed to conclude a maintenance contract immediately upon entry into service of the Palace of Justice? What measures will you take to respect the well-being of those 400 employees at work? We have heard in the press that a number of actions have already been taken and that you have already concluded a number of contracts in this area. I would like to hear the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate who would look at the file. I understand that Mr Heeren will not close the palace of justice and is satisfied with the steps taken. The question is what you will do. What formal commitment will you make?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u30	Mr President, I was indeed recently informed that there was no maintenance contract for the Hasselt building. I am not going to tell you any news when I say that justice has little budgetary space, and so we have to row with the belts we have. Nevertheless, my services have always tried to act quickly and consistently in this dossier and, of course, before the file has come into the media... avant que le dossier ne soit dans la presse. The file was well advanced. A distinction must be made between the overall contract and air quality issues. The overall maintenance contract should have already been concluded, but there are also elements on which we do not have a hold. For example, the building was sold, so it was necessary to negotiate the allocation of maintenance costs with a new owner. An agreement was reached after lengthy negotiations between the Régie des Bâtiments and the owner. The agreement reached will enable the technical management of the courthouse to be carried out in a more constructive and qualitative manner in the future. The terms of reference for this procurement were finalized and approved by the Finance Inspector last week. The call for tenders will now be launched by the Régie des Bâtiments. The tender procedure will take several months, given the size of the estimated amount of the order. Both my department and the Régie des Bâtiments are well aware of the importance and urgency of this case. The problems with air quality. It is the FOD WASO who wrote a letter about this. It is those who have asked for an answer to this particular problem by 15 June. Upon receipt of the letter, a file was drawn up in which my department placed a public contract to re-operational the boilers. It is an ad hoc meeting to restore air humidity in the courthouse in the short term. These maintenance operations should allow to meet the legal requirements and this was also communicated to the FOD WASO last week. All this information was, of course, also transmitted to Mr. President in good time last week, as well as to the building manager in Hasselt. In the meantime, it has already responded positively to this message.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u31	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hope you won't have to face such a categorical set-aside from a court president. This is not the first time that some have threatened to close a prison or a place of justice. I am happy to learn that a solution has been found, but I have no doubt for a second that others will unfortunately return to the burden.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u32	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I'm glad the President of the Court's distress call didn't fall into deaf ears. Perhaps that has accelerated the whole work that you have already started. So a little pressure can help sometimes. I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u33	Mrs. Wouters, do you really think that's how I am? I work forever and ever.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u34	I didn't say that. I'm very glad you...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u35	I do not like to hear such statements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u36	I am glad that, as I mentioned earlier, you had already started the file before it appeared in the newspapers. It's a good thing you've been working on the case. I didn't say anything about that either. Maybe by bringing things into the audience, other people got more pressure. I am therefore pleased that these steps have been taken in the short term in terms of well-being at work and air quality. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u37	Question No 4754 by Mrs Fernandez-Fernandez is transformed into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Nahima Lanjri's 4757 will also be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u38	Minister, children and young people with serious behavioural and emotional problems need and deserve good support. Up to the age of 18, such support may be required in certain circumstances, but once young people become 18, the possibilities are much more limited. Settings and organizations working with these young adults have called the alarm bell and written you a letter. They find it difficult to watch young people with a serious risk profile at the age of 18 no longer receive support. However, they run a major risk of committing crimes or harming themselves or others. In the letter they ask for a legal solution for these young people so that they can get the care and treatment they need. One of the elements is a further forced follow-up, because often the young person's understanding of illness is lacking so that he would voluntarily accept help. We leave young people with emotional or behavioural disorders in the cold too often. It is only through adequate and targeted supply that it can be avoided that these young people will fail. The note was also addressed to your colleague from Wellness, Health and Family in the Flemish government. The answer to a parliamentary question shows that he would have already discussed this with you. Firstly, do you recognise the problem raised in the letter you were allowed to receive? Secondly, what is your opinion on the possible solutions provided, in other words how do you intend to address this problem? Thirdly, what has been the outcome of the consultations with Minister Vandeurzen so far? Fourthly, what concrete steps are you preparing? Fifth, on what time do you intend to take these steps?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u39	Mr Van Hecke, I have taken note of the problems raised by the institutions and organisations working with these young adults in their letter. These are often young adults with intellectual disabilities or severe mental impairment combined with serious behavioural and emotional problems, the continuity of which cannot be guaranteed within the framework of voluntary assistance and for which appropriate assistance within a forced framework would be required by a serious risk or suspicion of risk to the safety of the person himself or of others. Continuity of assistance for young adults beyond the age of majority is important. Where the Communities are responsible for judicial measures to assist minors, the federal legislator is responsible for emergency aid measures when these young people reach the age of majority. I can refer to the current federal legislation in this area, including the recently reformed legislation on incompetent persons and the protection status of will-incompetent persons, as well as to the law on the protection of the person of the mentally ill, which regulates, inter alia, compulsory admission. I am aware that current legislation, and in particular the law of 26 June 1990 on the protection of the person of the mentally ill, does not always provide an adequate and ready-to-use solution for this category of persons. I will therefore shortly be organising a consultation with the institutions and organisations that drew up the letter in question in order to clarify their questions further, to assess whether measures should be taken and, if so, which ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I believe that it is indeed a good thing to consult with the letter writers and the institutions in order to explore all possibilities. After all, this is a very delicate area. At the same time, it is also a very important issue. I wish you every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u41	Mr President, Minister, these five brief questions stem from questions I asked in December of last year and January of this year, to which you replied that a number of actions had been taken. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u42	I'm from the opposition, so I'm allowed to ask questions that are a little sharper, Minister. After this reprimand, I'll still try to ask my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u43	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u44	As I said, these are follow-up questions to questions asked in December and January on a number of Committee recommendations I. I'll go over them very briefly. First of all, it concerns the organisation of information collected by the State Security. This was a problem identified in the 2013 Activity Report. In your reply of six months ago, you stated that adjustments had already been made to the relevant service notes, but that it was still necessary to check whether the instructions were adequate. Here are my specific questions. Has the new scheme already been evaluated? Has this shown that the measures taken are sufficient to meet the recommendations of the Committee I? If not, what measures are planned to fully address the problem? The second question concerns the destruction of personal data by the Belgian intelligence services. Article 21 of the Intelligence and Security Services Act provides that personal data processed by intelligence services may be kept for a limited period only. The security services of the State are also confronted with the problem of data retention. The precise deadlines and procedures must be determined by the government in a royal decree. The draft Royal Decree in question was indeed submitted to the Commission for its opinion on the Protection of the Personal Life Area. On receipt of the opinion, the draft was amended. In the meantime, an opinion was also obtained from the Council of State. You replied to my previous question that there was a need for consultation with the Minister of Defence in order to adopt a common position, because, of course, he is also competent. Hence the following questions. Have you been consulting with the Secretary of State for Defence about the C.B.? If so, what is the result? What is the common position? If not, when will the consultation take place? When can we expect the publication of the Royal Decree? Are there any steps to be taken? A third element concerns the public access to the archives of the State Security Services. In the 2011 Annual Report, the Committee I calls for a new regime to be introduced in the classification of archives documents of the State Security Services. I asked a question about this in January. You said you were prepared to revise the classification law, but you wanted to do so in a wider context. Where are we on the revision or preparation of a possible revision of the law? What elements do you intend to include in this review? You were talking about a broader angle of approach. By what time do you think you can come to Parliament with a proposal? My fourth question concerns the exchange of information between intelligence services and is also based on a recommendation from the Committee I. On 16 December 2014, you stated that you would like to examine all the recommendations of the Committee I which would be translated into concrete measures during this legislature. At the time, you also said that there had already been consultations on this matter with the management of the Committee I. What has been the outcome of the consultation with the Committee I? Where are you on the drill? Is it finished? If not, by when do you think you have it around? What's the preliminary result? What recommendations do you intend to address during this term of office? How and when do you intend to do that? What recommendations cannot or do not want to translate into measures? Why not? My fifth question concerns the exchange of information between intelligence services and the implementation of the Committee I recommendations. For many years, the Committee has been calling on the government to implement Articles 19 and 20 of the Intelligence and Security Service Act. Articles 19 and 20 govern the exchange of information and cooperation between Belgian intelligence services and other intelligence services and public authorities. Paragraph 3 of Article 20 provides that the Ministerial Committee shall determine the conditions under which cooperation may take place. Recent studies show once again that there is an urgent need for regulation in this area, the Committee I stated in its 2013 annual report. What progress has been made on the preparation of Articles 19 and 20? Have you already consulted the Minister of Defence and/or the intelligence services on this matter? Do you already have a view at the moment of timing within which the decision can be submitted to the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u45	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, in December I undertook to translate certain Committee I recommendations into concrete measures. First of all, I would like to focus on the recommendations that require legal intervention. A large number of them will be included in the review and revision of the BIM Act of 4 February 2010 incorporated into the Government Agreement. In the short term, I intend to include in the second potpourriwet some of those recommendations that require legal amendment. In particular, they concern recommendations relating to the BIM Act itself, which entail a reduction in workload for both the intelligence service and the relevant external supervisory bodies, the BIM Commission and the Committee I. With regard to cooperation and the exchange of information between the Belgian intelligence services and foreign intelligence services, in particular the legal obligation to regulate these activities in a directive of the Ministerial Committee on Intelligence and Security, today the National Security Council, I am convinced that such a directive is necessary. However, a directive governing cooperation and exchange of information between State security and foreign intelligence services requires consultation with a large number of actors and needs careful preparation. I will consult with the Secretary of Defense on this. In reply to your questions on public access to State Security archives, I can tell you that this is a matter that is being discussed within the review and revision of the legal framework in the intelligence services. At present, my services are examining whether an amendment to the classification law is effective or whether the current rules contained in the Archive Act, the Privacy Act, the Public Administration Act, the Act of 30 November 1998 and the Classification Act are sufficient in themselves to make available the so-called "dead archive' of the intelligence services to the public and to certain scientific institutions. The government's position on this issue will be part of the draft law revising the BIM law which will be submitted to Parliament. With regard to your questions on the retention and destruction of personal data processed by the intelligence services, and in particular on the draft Royal Decree implementing the relevant Article 21 of the Law of 30 November 1998, I have asked my services to look at the budgetary impact on the security of the State of certain measures described in the draft, and secondly to look at these issues in the light of the discussions on the revision of the legal framework on the intelligence services. After all, I would like to avoid an implementing decision which does not take account of certain issues raised in this report. Once both points have been clarified, I am going to hold the necessary consultations, again with the Minister of Defence. With regard to your questions concerning the classification of the information collected by the State Security, the Committee I stated in its activity report that the way in which the State Security records and classifys its data in its database was not clear. In my reply to you in December, I stated that during the monitoring by the Committee I, the intelligence service made adjustments to its relevant service note. A recent brief evaluation by the service shows that the new instructions are being complied with. However, the leadership of the State's security has indicated to me that a more detailed evaluation will take place in the short term. It has already indicated itself that, despite the new way of working, the problem still deserves further clarification. The security of the State has also informed me that it will involve the Committee I in this exercise. As Minister of Justice, I can only welcome such cooperation between the intelligence service and its supervisory body.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed answer. The reason I keep asking these questions is that it is a very old Parliament that many recommendations are made by the Committee I, the Committee P and other bodies that often remain in the drawer. Part of the responsibility lies certainly with this Parliament which can act legislatively. Occasionally, a legislative proposal is submitted, but often cases also need to be regulated through circulars and KBJVs. I therefore believe that it is important that we continue to encourage the Minister to do something about it. I understand that this is not all obvious. Some problems are complex and may need to be included in a wider discussion. Hence, you may also refer to the amendment of the BIM law or the wider amendment of the law on intelligence services in which this can be given a place. I can certainly live with that. Another point about the dead archive. I think this is a very important point from a scientific point of view. We recently saw an interesting publication about Lahaut's murder. Without archives from, for example, the Security of the State and others, it would not be possible to create a historical reconstruction relevant to understanding the history of our country. I also understand that files in which people were active who were still alive are delicate, but for scientific research it may be interesting to come up with a different classification to make those archives more open. This can be very useful in a democratic society, to let go of our researchers and historians and perhaps sometimes the investigative journalists. So I look forward to the initiatives that are coming. If nothing has happened in the meantime, I will perhaps return to this committee in December with a number of similar questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u47	Minister, I have a question about the penal facilities in the northern Kempen, particularly the region around Turnhout, which you are well-known for. There are four penal facilities there, namely in Turnhout, Hoogstraten, Merksplas and Root. The latter is also responsible for the administration of Tilburg's penal establishment, which is rented by the federal government. The whole region therefore plays an important role in the execution of the sentence. A prison doesn't call for resistance in that region either. On the contrary, we are very aware of the importance of penal institutions, especially in terms of employment in the region. There is therefore a fairly large support base for keeping the number of prisons at least at the same level. In recent times, however, there has been increasing unrest. In Merksplas prison, staff are finding fewer and fewer prisoners entering the prison. The rumor is also that the cell block would be temporarily closed for technical reasons. That would happen in the short term. In the long term, however, staff are also concerned about the future of this penal facility, especially about maintaining employment on that site. Although the coalition agreement states that master plan 2 will be fully implemented. This plan refers to both a new construction on the territory of Merksplas and the renovation of the current penal system. Firstly, is it true that the capacity of the criminal facility in Merksplas is being systematically reduced at the moment? Second, what about the cell block? Is it temporarily closed or not? Thirdly, how can it be reconciled with renting 670 cells in Tilburg? Fourthly, do you confirm the commitment in the coalition agreement to fully implement the master plan 2 so that the prison capacity in Merksplas can be maintained?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u48	Mr Wilrycx, you should not convince me that prisons play an important role in your region. I am aware of that. I am also very satisfied with the general atmosphere and the proper functioning of these penal facilities, in particular the establishment in your municipality Merksplas. I've met you, too. We discussed the file together at the time. As I explained to you then, Merksplas' file is included in Master Plan 1 and 2. The government agreement clearly states that the government will implement the existing master plans and that there will be a master plan 3, which will evaluate the plan and, where necessary, adapt it. Merksplas is of course retained as a project, although it is not an easy site given its great historical value and its protection as a monument. The site is also located in a protected landscape. All these aspects are taken into account when drawing up a proposal for a project, which will be included in the master plan 3 and will then be submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval. Only then will I be able to give you more details about the project and its concrete implementation. The major project, which will be included in master plan 3, has nothing to do with the current situation. I have recently reported a problem with electricity in one of the departments. In order not to run any risk, the administration of the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions decided to temporarily evacuate this part of the cellular part. These are about sixty prisoners who, for the most part, simply went to other departments within Merksplas. Eight prisoners were transferred to other institutions. There is therefore no systematic reduction in the number of prisoners. The evacuation is temporary. The Buildings Management will carry out a number of very short-term work. Once the situation in the cell ward is safe again, it will be able to be put back into operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u49	Mr Minister, my questions about the progress of temporary work and its impact on the number of prisoners will be put to the Minister responsible for the Buildings Management. What should happen to Merksplas in the longer term? It is true that the establishment is located in a protected landscape and that the buildings are also protected as a monument. Even if there are 100 or 600 prisoners, the buildings must be restored. The cost will indeed be higher than in a traditional prison, but there may be economies of scale which allow a new building to be built on the site so that certain buildings do not have to be restored and can disappear. Our contacts with Onroerend Erfgoed in Flanders are important. As far as Masterplan 3 is concerned, there will first be an evaluation of Masterplan 2. However, I believe that the importance of these penal institutions in our region should not be underestimated. We're in Turnhout in a dislocated zone, just like a dislocated zone has been set up around Genk. This means that there is a great deal of pressure on employment. Currently, 500 full-time equivalents work in Merksplas prison for 670 inmates. If the number of prisoners were to be reduced sharply, this would have an effect on those 500 full-time equivalents. I hope that this will be clarified quickly, because there is a great deal of concern among the prison staff. They're guards, too, not nurses. They are not trained to guide interned people, but they are trained to guide prisoners. I think this should certainly be taken into account in the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u50	Mr President, Minister, the new aspect of Leuze prison is really a problem. I had already intervened in this committee to draw your attention to problems related to the prison's too limited staff. Today, I come to tell you of another problem, namely the failure to bring detainees to work. I have recently read in the press that the tasks of the "meso", the body whose role is to carry out labour market prospecting to recruit entrepreneurs likely to employ prisoners, are not carried out properly. Some activities are offered to prisoners in the prison, but nothing comparable to the promises made. I am aware that it takes time for some things to get in place, but at some point we need results. The prisoners who accepted their transfer today bitterly regret that promises are not being kept. Mr Minister, are the steps taken by the "meso" moving forward? Where are we? What can these detainees expect? How much can they be put to work? This is due to the well-being of these detainees, their victims if they have committed themselves to indemnifying them and that of the prison officers for whom the work is facilitated if the detainees are properly occupied and for several hours a day.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u51	Mr President, Mr Delannois, starting a new prison is still a major challenge. This also applies to workshops that have to start from scratch. It is necessary to make contacts in the region, establish a relationship of trust, create networks, etc., all in the difficult economic context that everyone knows. The provision of work to detainees is therefore not an obligation of result but an obligation of means. I can say that, for Leuze prison, the Prison Labour Board is stepping up its efforts to find clients and thus offer maximum work to as many prisoners as possible. Unfortunately, at present, only about 10 prisoners are at work in the workshops. It goes without saying that other prisoners work, for example, in the kitchen, in the laundry room or in the sections. A contract involving some 20 inmates was also terminated following incidents outside the Régie. Currently, contacts are made with a dozen firms likely to be interested in a business relationship. Some contacts are very advanced and could lead to a contract within a few weeks or even a few days. Others are at the preliminary stage. It goes without saying that the number of inmates placed at work will depend on negotiation and final contract, but we are talking about a few dozen potential jobs in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u52	Minister, thank you for your answer. Being the mother of all vices, you can imagine that in prison the consequences may be even worse. For staff, it is obviously important for inmates to be able to work. I regret, however, that some steps are only being taken now, although it was still known when the prison was going to be opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u53	Mr President, Minister, since 1 June 2015, a new regulation on the right to roll has been in force. Now there seems to be quite a bit of confusion at some of the Registry offices. For example, some peace courts are currently requesting a pro-fissoration for acts for which no role is due. For example, no right to roll should be paid by a provisional director when he submits a number of petitions. For an application for the award of remuneration or for an authorisation to terminate a rental contract, the right to roll does not apply, but some Registrys still request a pro-fissoration. Mr Minister, first of all, is it sensible to require a pro-fissor from a director when it comes to procedures for which there is no right to roll? If so, does this not lead to excessive formalism and additional useless administrative burdens for the Registrys, who have already been so undermanned by the savings of recent years? If not, why are some of the clerks asking for a pro-fissoration? Secondly, have specific directives been sent to the Registrys of the various courts? If so, are these directives public and can a copy of them be obtained? If not, do you intend to do so, given the lack of clarity?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u54	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, adding a pro-fissor for preliminary claims that are not subject to the payment of roll-over rights is an issue that has been discussed in detail at several technical working meetings with representatives of the Registrys. It was agreed at that time that a profisco declaration should always be attached to each introductory act. This precisely facilitates the work for the Registrys by not having to verify for themselves whether a party has not attached a pro-fissoration because it is exempt from the right to roll or whether it has simply forgotten to attach a pro-fissoration. In addition, abuse is prevented by the party submitting an introductory act. If no pro-fissoration should be filed for a claim for which no roll rights should be paid, this rule could be abused to avoid the roll rights by declaring that no pro-fissoration was attached because the claim is exempt from the roll rights, although the claim must be paid for the roll rights. This obligation to always add a pro-fissor's declaration to claims not subject to payment of a roll-over right is waived only in the case of tax disputes and labour disputes. For such cases, the value of which does not exceed EUR 250 000 and which are therefore exempt from payment of roll-over rights, no pro-fissoration should be included. The reason for this is that 90% of these disputes are initiated by registered letter or petition sent by post and without a lawyer. The new rules on registry fees are further explained in a circular prepared by the FPS Finance. This circular letter is freely accessible on both the website of the FOD and that of the FOD Justice. Today, there is also a joint training day organized by Finance and Justice for all the representatives of the Registry, where the new legislation is practically explained.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u55	Minister, I can understand that people have thought very hard about whether or not to do so. It does seem strange for lawyers to have to file pro-fisco statements when they are 100% sure that there will never be any roll-over duty. I understand there may be abuse. This new system leads to some work being done by the Registry staff, while the aim was to rationalise as much as possible and to minimise administrative burdens. I fear that the introduction of the new role rights will just lead to more work and will therefore be somewhat counterproductive in view of the other objectives of your policy plan. I see you nod and agree with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u56	Mr President, Minister, this law, which dates back to May 2014 and is very important to a large majority of women, has resulted in a mechanism that wants that in the event of disagreement between parents, the father has a right of veto and that only the name of the father will appear. At the time of the passage of this law, we had many discussions on this provision, which appears to be truly unfair. The argument of the time was to give preference to the old practice. The Institute for the Equality of Women and Men filed an application with the Constitutional Court in November 2014 to give the dual name in case of disagreement. Minister, wouldn't it be interesting and important to change this legislation? Do you expect the response of the Constitutional Court? Do you have any idea how long? Could a parliamentary initiative already be taken today? This law applies only to children born after entry into force, with exceptions for minor children. This derogation ended on 31 May. According to our information, 4,887 newborns received a double surname. Following the end of this derogation, there have been articles in the newspapers and I have been contacted by a lot of parents who want to opt for the double last name. In addition to the application to the Constitutional Court, my question relates to this period of derogation. Is it possible to extend the derogation phase? If not, will you provide for another procedure? I would have liked to know your analysis in this regard. Indeed, this possibility gradually entering into morals and societal knowledge, it would be good if it could be realized.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u57	Gerkens, the primary objective of the Act of 8 May 2014 is to restore a certain balance in the rights of men and women in assigning names to their children. In accordance with the new article 335, § 1, paragraph 2, of the Civil Code, where filiation is established with respect to the father and the mother, and if they fail to agree on the choice of name to be given to the child or if they make no choice, the child shall bear the father's name. This option, which has been examined among others by the legislator, is, of course, the subject of an appeal for annulment before the Constitutional Court. However, the case is pending and we cannot prejudge the position which the Court will adopt. A review of the law is therefore not on the agenda. Article 11 of the Act states that it applies only to children born or adopted after its entry into force. However, article 12 provided for a transitional provision allowing parents and adopters who met certain conditions to file a declaration of change of name with the registrar in accordance with the procedures for devolution of the name prescribed by the new law. One of these conditions relates to the period during which this declaration is to be made. The one-year deadline for this purpose was chosen after consultation with the land actors, including the VLAVABBS (Vlaamse Vereniging van Ambtenaren en Beambten Burgerlijke Stand) and the GIPE (Groupement des Agentes de la Population et de l'état civile), associations of Dutch-speaking and French-speaking civil registrars. In addition, this reform has been widely publicised through the Justice FPS website, municipalities and maternity wards, as well as in the press and the media. Parents were therefore given the flexibility to organize themselves and to provide their children with the opportunities offered by the new law. Moreover, while this transitional provision is not, in principle, applicable since 1 June 2015, it is, however, limited in two cases related to the occurrence of an event after the entry into force of the law justifying its application. Thus, under the aforementioned article 12, the birth or adoption of a new child or the establishment of a second bond of filiation after the entry into force of the law allows common minor children born before the entry into force of the said law to enjoy the possibilities of choice provided by the law. Apart from these assumptions, there can be no question of extending the benefit of the derogation scheme beyond 31 May 2015 for common minor children born before 1 January 2014. Indeed, the nature of a transitional measure is to be only temporary since it is intended to allow the transition from the old legal regime to the new legal regime. In addition, more generally, the nature of new legislation is to apply to situations that occur after its entry into force, not to apply to previous situations, in this case to persons born before its entry into force.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u58	Mr President, Minister, I cannot contradict you when you say that this is a transitional phase and that the latter has a limited duration. Having said that, I can see that the campaign, which was to be a broad information campaign, has proved to be a campaign only for those who were aware of the issue. So she didn't touch everyone. In addition, there is a question of changing the mentality and vision of society. In doing so, it would be interesting, in my view, to plan a new information campaign. I would point out that the arrival of a minor child may still be subject to adaptation. This is therefore an opportunity that the interested parties will have to seize. To do so, however, it would be desirable for the information to be properly disseminated. It would be interesting to think about allowing people who would now realize that to do so. The consequences of this decision are for life. With regard to the amendment of the law, I, as a parliamentarian, would like to suggest an amendment to the law passed in 2014. I think that this is going to have some problems because it is not based on the fundamental principles of equality between men and women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u59	Minister, despite the transitional period, the amendment to section 259octies of the Judicial Code may cause problems for some winners of the competitive examination for admission to the judicial internship. I'll give you the long explanation you know. Minister, my question is very concrete. Do you confirm that on the francophone side, twelve winners from previous years would be given priority over the winners of the 2014-15 admission competition? Is the situation comparable with the Dutch-speaking language role? Do you have an explanation of this situation, of which you have certainly inherited? According to my information, by 31 May at the latest, all the laureates had to make known their willingness to enter into service or not. Do you already know the number of candidates who have demonstrated this will? How many candidates do they want to take office this year? Therefore, what is the number of winners overtaken by the Royal Order of April 10, 2014 that sets the limit? If there are unfair situations, what do you intend to do concretely to remedy this difficult period for those winners who are not a priority for this year or the following year?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u60	Mr President, I am, of course, aware of the situation of the winners. The applicable legislation was amended under the previous government, given the number of complaints about its inequitable nature. The winners of a previous session were ranked before the winners of the more recent sessions, even though they had achieved a higher score. This is no longer the case now, but acquired rights cannot be simply removed. As a result, there are always winners from previous sessions, who are given priority over the current year's winners, when they want to enter service. Previous year winners have already been asked if they would like to enter service this year On the Francophone side, nine winners from previous exam sessions wish to enter service. On the Dutch-speaking side, there are seven of them who want to go into service. The situation for both linguistic roles is roughly comparable. Of the twenty-nine French-speaking winners of the 2014-15 session, twenty-eight indicated that they would like to enter service as well as twenty-four of the twenty-six Dutch-speaking winners. By royal decree of 10 April 2014, the number of seats on the Dutch-speaking side was set at twenty-six and twenty-two on the French-speaking side. In order to meet the wishes of the Supreme Council of Justice and the similar wish of the College of Public Prosecutions, the number of places initially fixed by the Royal Decree of 10 April 2014 must be increased. I have therefore instructed that a case be prepared to increase the number of judicial interns that can be recruited so that all successful candidates who have indicated their willingness to enter the service can be recruited. In the course of August, ministerial orders appointing judicial trainees should be issued so that the publication of these vacancies can take place in early September and that the oath benefits can take place before October 1, 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-16-54-commissie-ic193x.u61	Minister, thank you for your quick response, which ultimately responds to a concern for fairness and will reassure the candidates who were in the dark.
