ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u2	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Laaouej, heer Deseyn, heer Vercamer and Mr Friart. They refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u3	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to point out that we are not working under optimal conditions; that is the least we can say. Here I discover the test of a report which contains tables indicating the effects, by income level, of a number of measures. I'm unable to tell you if these paintings are good or critical. Mrs De Block gave these tables in the Social Affairs Committee. That being the case, I am discovering these paintings in plenary. There is therefore a clear problem of the transmission of information between the various committees. In the future, consideration will have to be given to holding joint committees on certain aspects of matters such as this one. I turn to my more experienced colleagues; I imagine that has already happened. You will understand that I will not comment on these paintings. If you wish to invoke them in an adventurous manner, I would ask that they be examined in a committee which can still be held before the vote in plenary. I'm sorry, but working under these conditions is not possible. In the same way, I have just spoken on the margins of this meeting and with Mr. Van Overtveldt, the fact that the aim today is to vote. There will be no obstruction of any kind in the leader of the PS Group, on whose behalf I speak after consultation with my group leader. However, the opinion of the Council of State has just arrived. It should be seen in good conditions to see whether there is, as agreed, a matter of rectification, which can still be done today by amendments. Anything is possible. In these circumstances, I will try to tell you what I think of your tax reform. In my opinion, this tax shift is a missed opportunity. You missed a great opportunity to reform our tax system to make it fairer and more efficient. Why? At the end of the previous legislature, a joint chamber and Senate commission had been set up to explore the avenues for possible tax reform. We have worked for several weeks, assisted by various departments and conducted numerous hearings, leading to a relatively interesting report. It was built around several tracks that did not gather consensus, it is true, but which gave a number of orientations. Almost simultaneously, the Supreme Council of Finance has issued a report on possible avenues for tax reform in terms of shifting the tax base. Moreover, he was the first player in the political debate to have used the concept of tax shift. When you read these two reports, and when you compare them to the project submitted, you can't really say that you've been largely inspired by them, far from it. That is why I say that there is already a missed opportunity. You did not feed on the many thoughts that were at your disposal. The second reason you are missing the objective is that you are clearly not taking into account the qualitative and dynamic evolution of our economic fabric, which is no longer the same as it was thirty years ago. I am thinking of the financialization of the economy, the huge productivity gains and the changes in the wage bill and the level of employment resulting from the digital revolution. It is already known that a major process of job substitution will take place with others and that the overall level of employment will disappear. These elements are fundamental – but, obviously, you have not integrated them. Otherwise, you would have taken further steps to shift taxes from labour income to capital income. Another point you are not aware of is the rigorous examination of the current picture of our taxation, to see its distribution according to the bases. When we look at the €106 billion in tax revenues – I say "taxes", not "parafiscales", I will come back – which are included in the 2016 budget, we can see that more than 70% of them are based either on labour income or on household consumption, which is itself financed by these. What does that mean? This means that, in addition to an economic imbalance, since labour income accounts for only 50% of GDP, there is also a fiscal imbalance. While part of wages is falling more and more for the deep economic reasons that I have explained, it turns out that households, workers, bear the bulk of taxes. You also do not take this into account since you move part of the tax on labour income on consumption. That's one of the big flaws of your tax reform. You do not take into account the many works carried out, neither the qualitative evolution of the economic fabric nor the distribution of taxes on the different bases. At least for these three reasons – but there are others – this is a missed opportunity. I also wish to fundamentally challenge the use of the term tax shift. In your project, it's a tote. There are reductions in labour taxes or in taxes that are close to them; increases in consumption taxes, small increases in capital income; and reductions in employer social contributions. You consider this to be a compulsory levy on the same basis as taxes, and you make it part of your tax shift by pretending to change the tax on labour. We don't have to share your vision of things. From the point of view of history, first of all, because social security was conceived as an element of wages. It is an indirect wage, deferred, insurance financed by employers and employees to guarantee them against risks related to their condition, including the risk of losing their job. Unemployment insurance is an insurance against the risk of not returning to work, against that of being ill; it is also an insurance to cover the risk of loss of economic capacity as a result of an accident or old age. This is social security! So when you reduce employer social contributions – at the same time as you under-finance social security with the downward revision of the growth standard – you get that part of the indirect wage of workers. So you're touching on purchasing power. You cannot say that you are making a shift tax that will strengthen purchasing power while in reality you are strengthening social security. As a result, you earn the indirect wages of the workers. I therefore fundamentally contest your approach to social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u4	Mr Laaouej, there are some arguments in your speech that seem strange to me. Your reasoning might be correct if social security were financed only by contributions from employees. That's not true. Employers also contribute to social security. Another thing that seems completely strange to me is that you pretend that social security is financed entirely by contributions. That's not true. There is a huge gap in social security that we are supplementing by general means. The only person who apparently isn't entirely with the new situation is you. You say that we must take account of the historical foundations of social security. Unfortunately, a lot has changed. Social security is largely financed from the general budget. It is not only the workers who finance social security from the outset that do so. When you say that the employer's contribution cannot be affected by the idea that all the resources come from the employees, I do not think that is technically correct at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u5	Mr Gilkinet, I appreciate the interruptions, but we should address the speaker, Mr Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u6	Mr President, I would like to comment on Mr Laaouej's comment on the deferred nature of social security contributions, which I can very broadly agree with. In recent years, social contributions are no longer sufficient to finance social security, since before this tax shift project, reductions in social contributions had already been decided on for employers and, if possible, for employment, alternative financing had to be developed. But let's have a good count! This alternative funding, referred to by Mr Laaouej, is linked to choices to reduce social contributions for employment. It's vestzak-broekzak, as our Flemish friends say. If there has been alternative financing of this importance, it is because there have been reductions in social contributions. Our regret for years, as ecologists, is the non-structural nature, to be negotiated each year, of this alternative financing and the lack of prior choices to this government. Today, the process is being initiated, but it is still clearly insufficient to make a greater contribution of capital income and to allocate these new revenues to social security, so as not to have to negotiate every year with all those who are supporters of a state that is looking after the most fragile at this time. Yes, there is significant alternative financing, but it is linked to reductions in social contributions that have already been decided and not always well affected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u7	Mr Laaouej, I am glad to hear you recall certain realities. Generally, the political world tends to forget them. Social contributions, whether they are contributions from workers or employers, are indirect wages. I'm glad to hear you say that. These contribution reductions are what I call "gifts to employers" – that makes the Chairman of the Finance Committee laugh. I had the impression that there was only the PTB that defended this vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u8	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u9	Mrs Onkelinx, I am glad to see that there is not only the PTB that defends this vision. Perhaps it would also be appropriate to have a self-critical look at the past. Because it is not the first government that makes this kind of social reduction. It is also said that contribution reductions must be made in such a way and not in another way. Finally, we turn around and don't touch the node of the system. Mr Laaouej, Mr Bogaert, employers' contributions are part of the total indirect wage of workers, even if, formally, this does not appear as such. Indeed, consider an accounting balance sheet and account 62 of wage costs, which includes all wages, including employer charges. The real salary is therefore in the company's accounting. Like other colleagues, Mr Bogaert is speaking here. One may wonder whether the latter is speaking as a Member of Parliament or as a company manager.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u10	Mr. Van Hees, perhaps you should avoid making personal attacks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u11	In any case, I feel that Mr Bogaert is sensitive to this question. But to return to the subject that concerns us, I wanted to point out that even so-called employers' contributions are, in fact, part of the indirect wages of workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u12	Mr President, I welcome the presence of repeaters in this House. I would therefore like to thank Messrs. Gilkinet and Van Hees. I'll say at the end that Mr. Van Hees reminds me of this rooster who thinks the sun is rising because he's cocorico. Having said that, Mr Van Hees, I would like to remind you that social security – I come back here to the answers given to Mr Bogaert – is the result of arduous discussions between workers and employers. Then, it was declared in 1944, when the socialist democrats we are took the bull by the horns to say that it was necessary to ensure a level of comfort worthy of the workers, at a time when the collectivist ideologies of your political family were other, ideologies that did not impress with their effectiveness. Mr Bogaert, I did not say that there was only personal social contributions. I never said that. I have even explicitly mentioned employer social contributions, since in reality this is what is being discussed. Employers' social contributions and personal social contributions are the only ones involved in the financing of social security. I will come back to alternative financing at a later stage. It's part of the exchange contract. In other words, when a worker negotiates with an employer individually or collectively, even if it is often collectively, he or she tells him or her that he or she wants monetary pay, but also that he or she wants to be covered against the risks associated with his or her working conditions. That is why both funds this legal insurance system. I am referring here to the indirect wage that others have mentioned. I didn't say anything else, Mr Bogaert! Second, alternative financing is an interesting development. Why? One realizes, because of the evolution and financialization of the economy, that today it is possible to make money with money. Capital generated by capital. Moreover, in the creation of wealth, the share of robotics and digitisation is constantly increasing and that is why the share of wages is less important. There is nothing illogical, nothing inconsistent with the fact that other bases, including capital, can be used to finance social security. I am not going to impose on you a course of classical economics, but to produce wealth, it takes capital, labour and natural resources. That the whole fund social security is strictly nothing incoherent, but on the contrary. I repeat that by reducing employer social contributions, at the same time as you lower the standard of health care growth, you are affecting the purchasing power of the population. To say otherwise would be wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u13	So, Mr Laaouej, your reasoning is that if the government reduces the employer's contribution, then we will be affected by the purchasing power of the people. Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u14	Into the two! Between your two premises, there's another one. You are leading to a de-financing of social security, and your policy is already showing this by reducing social protection. When drugs and doctors become more expensive, you lose disposable income. It's money you can't spend on anything else, you touch the purchasing power of the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u15	If that is correct, then you must answer the next question. We're always talking about the tax shift, but there's tax shift 1 and tax shift 2. Taxshift 1 is actually the competitiveness pact of the previous Di Rupo government. In that tax shift 1, the competitiveness pact, we do nothing else. We have introduced a reduction in the burden on employers. You say that a reduction in employers' costs means a reduction in the purchasing power of the workers. For once, the PTB agrees with me. I hope you agree with me technically, not ideologically, because otherwise I will be in trouble myself. However, we have done nothing else in the previous government. We have concluded the Competitiveness Pact. In fact, Mr Daerden has distributed a table in committee to show the extent to which employers' burdens have fallen under the Competitiveness Pact. Then what exactly is the reproach? That this government does that, too? I challenge you in the reasoning that a reduction in employers' contributions leads to a loss of purchasing power for workers. Explain that to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u16	Mr President, this may be a detail, but, as we have already said, the devil is hiding in detail. Mr. Laaouej spoke about the increase in the price of medicines. But the minister is struggling to lower the price of medicines and to make it cheaper for the patient. So that's a bad example.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u17	Mr President, I will be very brief. I come back to my speech on Monday in committee, as Mr Bogaert has just referred to. I was already recalling the measures taken in the competitiveness pact and I was also insisting on Monday on the opinion of the social partners on guaranteed structural financing of social security, given the evolution of the share of social contributions in its financing. I regret and deplore the fact that this guaranteed structural financing has not been foreseen in the context of this current reform. The minister announced that it would be tomorrow or the day after tomorrow and that it would be considered. I regret once again, as I have had the opportunity to say for pensions, that we are doing things a little backwards. Funding is not guaranteed, but contributions are reduced. What should have been done is to guarantee this funding, to integrate this unanimous opinion of the social partners in parallel with this reduction in contribution through contributions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u18	Mr Laaouej, I am surprised at your statement. I am not a member of the Social Affairs Committee, but is it true that the Socialists do not agree to a reduction in the employer's contribution? Everyone has always assumed that labour costs...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u19	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u20	Mrs Temmerman, I have always understood, including from the trade unions, that this can be accepted. I am thinking, for example, of the ACV, which I do not want to be the spokesman, which has always said that the part of the tax shift on reducing social contributions to reduce labour costs could be welcomed. Yesterday, I brought that up as well. Mrs Onkelinx, we must improve competitiveness and reduce labour costs. Employers' contributions are an essential part of these costs. We have had one index jump, but we should not reduce wages. Mr Van Hees, that is a component of, as you yourself say, indirect wages, which are also paid by employers. Reducing employers' contributions is not a gift given to employers. This reduction comes in order to make labour costs cheaper and thus create jobs, which in turn contribute. Mrs Onkelinx, social security, pensions and unemployment benefits will only remain affordable in the coming years if jobs are added, if employment is promoted. That's the ABC from the tax shift. For me it's about that, much more than about purchasing power shifts. Mrs Temmerman, I understand that the Socialists believe that reducing social charges is unacceptable. Mr Laaouej, is the reduction in employers' contributions the most important thing? I'm referring to the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u21	Three billion!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u22	Mr Laaouej, are you opposed to the reduction of employers' social contributions? What I hear now is completely new. Mrs Onkelinx, you are now in Mr Van Hees' drawer. That's PTB language; that's communist language.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u23	Mr Van Rompuy, calm down!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u24	No, Mr. Laaouej, I'm pissed off! I know you as a reasonable man. Now you're doing ideology. You're no longer saving money!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u25	I recognize myself as one flaw, that is to read your blog too often, Mr. Van Rompuy. And maybe that's why I finally come to say that your tax reform, which is not funded – as you say yourself – will anyway lead you to social security savings. You can't say otherwise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u26	Mr Van Rompuy, first of all, to do ideology is not an insult. I don't understand you when you argue that way. Secondly, as far as social security is concerned, we are actually talking about something extremely important. For those who wonder why there is a grant, I would remind you that social security is not only for the welfare of workers. Social security, over time, has enabled the development of social policies that enable the general population to enjoy well-being. And it is certainly thanks to our social security that: - first, we are among the best ranked in the "well-being countries" cited by the OECD; - Second, we were able to do the best possible shield against the crisis. Every time we have participated in governments, we have accepted reductions in social contributions, if possible targeted at low wages, in such a way that we can turn them into employment policies. At the same time, we have always said that we were not opposed to reductions in employers' social contributions to support competitiveness, but that, therefore, we had to finance this social security by other means. We have succeeded in diversifying the sources of funding for social security, and that is a very good thing. But where it doesn't go, especially in your tax shift, is that you have refused to find ways, through a large capital contribution, to compensate for the sharp fall in employer social contributions. And that's why we are accusing you of not defending our social security. On the contrary, you're weakening her. You are reducing contributions without, at the same time, daring this great debate of a capital tax that would solidify our system.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u27	Mr President, I am slightly shocked by the remarks made by the chairman of the Finance Commission. I have the privilege of sitting on that committee for a good year now, as an effective member. We have talked very often about the tax shift. Every time I said that we were absolutely in favour of a tax shift, a reduction in the burden on businesses and a reduction in the tax burden on people. Mr Van Rompuy, you have addressed us. What you have come to say, namely that we are now in favour of not reducing the burden on businesses, I do not accept that. You're just not being honest! It's obvious to me. A few weeks ago, the leader of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Vuye, called you on the floor. I understand this has had an effect. You're going through a lot of trouble to get back in line and tell today things that just aren't fair. When Mr Vuye said a few weeks ago that there should be no intelligence test for the chair of a committee, I thought that was scandalous. However, I may have to agree with him.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u28	Mr Vanvelthoven, there is no way of keeping Eric Van Rompuy in check. Such a rule still needs to be invented. Mr Laaouej, the debate is of course interesting and I believe that in your speech, which was supported by your group leader, you expressed the concern that a reduction in employee contributions would have an impact on the financing of social security. It is true, Mr Onkelinx, that we have always adapted this in the previous legislatures. I invite you to add the coalition agreement on this matter. In the section on equilibrium, we expressly stated that the financing of social security should not be surplus, but should not be inadequate. We will adapt this via KB and divide it between employees and self-employed persons. In other words, the principle of alleviating social security deficits is also guaranteed by this government, as was the case with previous governments. Once again, there is no breach of style in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u29	Mr President, I would like to thank all my colleagues for their contribution to the debate. We are really at the heart of the matter. The question is what standard of living we want to provide our citizens with public services and social protection. The argument that I am defending today, as I defended when we examined the budget, is that you are creating a budgetary situation that will lead you tomorrow to make dark cuts in social protections and in public services. You'll have no other choice. You are already missing €3 billion by 2019. Mr. Van Rompuy tells us about 8 billion euros. Personally, I think that if we add to the 3 billion all the revenue that I think is farfetched and not on the road, we get to a minimum of 5 billion euros. Where are you going to find 5 billion euros? You don't have thirty-six choices. A first possibility is to increase taxes on consumption, knowing that raising taxes on capital will be very problematic for a government like yours. A second possibility is to save money on public services, but where are you going to do it and how? The least we can say is that we're already in the bone. Finally, the last possibility is to touch on social security. You've already started. This was discussed during the budget review on the standard of health care growth. I can see that this is disturbing the CD&V. It's not an attack on you. That's the opposite! If you can remind the government that social security is something important to protect workers, their families and a range of other vulnerable people, we will be there to help you. You're in denial of a number of realities, it's not my fault. I'm just trying to tell you that touching social security is touching purchasing power. For the rest, I would like to point out that the previous government, in which you participated and in which we participated, has, on occasion, reduced the contributions here and there in a targeted way. Why in a targeted way? Because we want it to be effective. At the same time, however, the Di Rupo government raised the tax on capital income by €7 billion. We must be honest, these 7 billion do not fully contribute to the alternative financing of social security. But in those 7 billions, you've had a dramatic increase in the household discount from 15 to 25 per cent and, from there, alternative financing on social security. We have also done a work on stock options which, too, will finance social security in an alternative way. Whenever targeted reductions in employers' social contributions have been granted in exchange for job creation, to be as effective as possible, efforts have always been made, when there were socialist-participated governments, to strengthen alternative funding for social security. This is the truth you do not want to hear!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u30	Mr Laaouej, I apologise for interrupting you again. Something interesting is happening in the hemisphere. It started with me and I'll try to land the plane properly. At least that's my ambition. What you're saying is interesting. There is, of course, the financing of the tax shift. Perhaps we can come back to that later this morning or afternoon. I am not saying to the Socialists, Mr Vanvelthoven, that she is in favour of the reduction, but has a problem with the way in which it is financed. The sp.a prefers a capital tax. We will discuss this later. The P.S. says otherwise. The PS not only claims to have a problem with how the tax shift is financed, the PS also says something else. In committee, the PS has made a distinction. There are the measures in the chapter on first recruitments. Mr Daerden says that the PS supports this, that these measures are in line with what the previous government has done and that they benefit small and medium-sized enterprises. So we get a big thumb for everything about the first recruitments. But then we come to Chapter 3 on competitiveness and the reduction of, among other things, the employer's contribution. According to Mr Daerden, it is a question of chapter 3, and I quote: 'a fetish which the government has been pursuing since the beginning of its accession: the pursuit of competitiveness'. As an objective observer of the debate, I can only say that the sp.a agrees with all the reductions in the tax shift, but not with the funding. The P.S. says otherwise. The PS agrees with the reductions in the first recruitments, but has a fundamental problem with the reduction of the employer's contribution. The PS would have done that differently. So I think there is a difference in vision between the socialist family.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u31	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u32	Repeat what I'm saying now. You heard what I said. To sum up, the PS agrees with the reduction in the first recruitment, but not the reduction in the employer's contribution. That's the truth you're trying to hide. That's the truth. Read the report. Don't get so excited, I'll read the report. You have differences of opinion within the socialist family about the tax shift.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u33	Mr Bogaert, you quoted me. I therefore allow myself to react. I would ask you to either read the entire report of the committee or come to it, since you are very interested in the matter. Above all, I think you'd better listen to my group leader's comments a moment ago. She made it clear that we were not opposed to a reduction in social contributions but were opposed to the way you do it. It's just that. So don't try to oppose us, don't mix everything! Just be rigorous in listening and analyzing our comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u34	Mr Bogaert has had a form of lethargy since the beginning of the parliamentary session, that is true! Then we see it reappeared in the course of fiscal and fiscal work. The problem is that his sleep has been so long that he's a little confused, a bit like when he wakes up! Mr Bogaert, I am prepared to hear all the arguments as long as they have a minimum of seriousness. I don't doubt you're a serious man, but now, for the moment, you're talking, in my opinion, a little bit of anything! Another point is the objectives pursued by your tax reform. I repeat, I dispute that the reduction in employer contributions is part of a shift tax. That's the opposite! People will pay for it. For a tax reform to be fair, it must in any case be able to meet two main parameters: progressivity and redistribution. Because it is not enough to make a tax reform, it must also be said that with this tax reform, we will try to improve the daily lives of the majority of the population. The problem, Minister of Finance, has been that for several weeks now, we have been asking you to provide us with tables measuring the effects on progressivity and redistribution. Progressivity is that as income increases, the relationship between tax and income also increases. Redistribution is to compare the distribution of pre-tax and post-tax income and to observe a decrease in income distribution inequalities after tax application. At this point, we don't have these tables. That means you're sailing on sight, and so are we. In order to make such estimates, we need the tools that the tax administration has in its possession. Of course, these tables should not only incorporate tax reductions on labour income. One might imagine that the increase in lump sum costs and the increase in the exempted quota, and perhaps the widening of the scale (but it is somewhat more ambiguous) might have a positive effect on progressivity. Maybe. On the other hand, there is an increase in VAT on electricity. There's an increase in excise duties. These are by nature regressive taxes, for which it can be seen that as income increases, the relationship between tax and income decreases. This means that you have some effects that may be positive for progressivity, but other effects that may be negative. The integration of all of this data into a simulator, the one in your tax administration, would have allowed us to see a little more clearly. Unfortunately, we don't have it, so when you are told "be careful, you have to take everything into consideration", you tell us "but not at all, look, with my tax reform, people will be entitled to 20, 30, 40 euros." No, you have to have an overall vision. Not to mention the index jump. I hope that we will be able to obtain this figure as soon as possible, but this obviously casts a shadow on your statements, a doubt in any case, because we do not know today what the precise effects of your tax reform on progressivity and redistribution are. This is a real problem in terms of fiscal policy. Whenever measures have been decided over the last 15 years, there has always been a measure on progressivity and redistribution. Unfortunately, this is not the case this time. Let's quickly review the different measures of your tax shift. There has been a lot of talk about VAT on electricity. I recall the debate we had with Mr Bacquelaine, but without insisting that he is not present. We are told that the increase in VAT on electricity from 6 % to 21 % will be corrected by tax cuts. Except that pensioners do not fully benefit from your tax reductions because they are not active and some of your measures are only targeted at assets. In addition, pensioners had an index jump. What compensates for the loss of disposable income due to the increase in the electricity bill for pensioners? I don't see anything in the politics you're leading, which is why we have to worry. I also said that, with regard to VAT, it would have a negative effect on the progressivity of compulsory levies. I'm on VAT on cosmetic surgery. We told you that we had some concerns about the problem of restorative cosmetic surgery. You have provided a number of answers, but we ask you to continue to be vigilant. There are dramatic situations that require access to this kind of care, which are essential to enable people to regain dignity either due to illness, an accident or the hazards of birth. There is very little talk about the increase in excise duty on diesel. According to our calculations, for someone who uses his car to go to work every day and has a place of work relatively far from his home, this could amount to up to 300 euros per year. Not everyone will have to pay that amount, but there are many who use their car to go to work and you will agree with me that there is also an impressive increase in this consumption tax, which also has the disadvantage of being unfair in its nature. There was a lot of talk about the soda tax. You rely on a change in consumer behaviour, with some kind of paternalism. I fear that this tax will be paid by families with many children. Here too, we'll have to check. Also in the register of tax increases, I have separated, in my presentation, the taxes that are being increased and the taxes that are being reduced. The speculation tax is worth EUR 34 million. I will not repeat the debate that took place in the Finance Committee. This tax has two shortcomings. The first is to limit it to operations which take place within six months. What happens if people sell at six months and one day? There is a real problem here. I can provide you with a comparative international picture of the different regimes for the taxation of capital gains. In some schemes, taking into account temporality exists, and in this case it is only considered to modulate the rate. At the same time there is a tax in principle. Some countries have a somewhat different approach and tax the volume of capital gains achieved in one year. They modulate the rate or consider that there is an exemption. For your part, you set a rate, you tax less than six months and do not tax more than six months. You create what is called a threshold effect. This may cause you to lose most of your recipe. I don't think you've taken the problem by arm-to-body. It seems to me that there is this material to be rectified. In the case of the Cayman tax, you had the lucidity to understand that it was not going to bring back everything you had programmed, because here or there were loopholes. Do the same with the speculation tax. I know that there are resistances within certain socio-economic groups, and with some lobbies, we can understand that. However, you do not have the same scruples when it comes to increasing VAT or excise duties. Nor when it comes to attacking certain social rights. Is that to say that millions of workers must be less heard than a quarter of speculators who fear that they will be taxed a little? Mr Cheron will remind us that a quarteron does not mean "four". At the same time, Mr. Cheron, I don't have the same physiognomy as General de Gaulle, and I don't have that ambition. I think Mr Cheron has an important contribution to make to the debate. It's the end of the year and the board may not be useless. Please, Mr. Cheron.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u35	"Quarteron" is, first of all, a measure of wine. It is also an expression used by General de Gaulle to designate rebel generals in Algeria: he spoke more precisely "of a quarter of retired generals". I don't know if it's useful to you for the tax shift, but maybe you could use it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u36	It's hard for me to put your point in my presentation. I'm going to try to find it useful! As far as the Cayman tax is concerned, we are facing a difficulty. The opposition has shown that it can be constructive. The opinion of the Council of State has just arrived, it is in translation. However, the question already arises as to how we will organize the work. Mrs Onkelinx, our group leader, has clearly shown her willingness to succeed in the Conference of Presidents. But there was this mortgage in the opinion of the Council of State. I cannot prejudge its content. I remain in a constructive spirit and do not exclude the possibility of reaching a vote today, after consultation. I cannot refine my analysis without having all the elements. We welcome this tax. I would remind you that it was Mr.Crombez who had introduced a similar bill, which had been rejected by the right wing of the Di Rupo government. Finally you found it a good idea and took it back to your account. The amendment you made to it restricted the scope of application. You laid it down. We can only welcome this, but only lost time. About the increase in the discount from 25 to 27%, you're doing a bit of alternative financing again. This will not compensate for what you are going to look for in reducing employers' social contributions. A few hundred thousand euros will not compensate for the shortfall in social security funding. Unlike what we did in previous governments, you are not really strengthening alternative financing. I regret that we are touching on the citizen loan. I no longer know who among the CD&V Finance Ministers, Mr. Vanackere or Mr. Geens, had initiated the project. On the other hand, I know that it was Mr. Geens who had finalized it and who had provided for an advantageous modality in terms of the furniture discount. I therefore do not understand why the CD&V Group has allowed an increase in the taxation of income from public loans to pass when it was a good idea that had been put into practice together, with the aim of trying to reorient finance towards basic needs of general interest. That's really a shame. I do not understand why this measure is adopted. I'm not sure she'll bring a lot of money back into the state coffers. With regard to the declines in the PPI, the increase in the flat-rate charges can be welcomed. You're reviewing the rates. You're raising the ceiling. That's very good! These measures will directly contribute to increasing workers' disposable income. The principle of increasing the exempted quota is commendable. However, I will put two important flats. The first relates to the fact that you do not target the measure based on the level of income. Indeed, if you review the ceiling upwards for the increased quota, you have not taken into account the fact that a person who earns, for example, 1 million euros, or even 500 000, 400 000 euros, or what I know, may not need it. It therefore seems to me that in this respect you could have targeted a little better and used the money raised to strengthen the measure. That's what you should have done. What you're going to do is no more or less strengthen the savings capacity of a number of people who, in terms of their income, don't need it. I will not go back to the problem of pensioners. I refer to the lengthy discussions we have had in the Finance Committee. However, you are making the assumed election to neutralize the tax advantage that emerges from the increase in the exempt quota by reducing the tax reduction on replacement income. It is a choice that you make, but I do not understand it from the moment that pensioners also pay indirect taxes such as VAT on electricity that you have increased. You used two arguments to that end. The first is to say that you are going to target labour assets and earnings in the strict sense of the term. In my view, replacement income is also of a professional nature. Moreover, the Tax Code places them in this category. The second is to argue that pensioners do not pay taxes, since they benefit from the tax reduction for incomes below €15,200 – I round off. This reasoning is not on the road. It could have been valid if you had not made contributions to pensioners through index jumps or VAT on electricity. They therefore deserved a tax reduction. You shouldn't have opted for the tax reduction on replacement income. In this regard, I would be curious to know how much is the gain you gain from this neutralization of the tax reduction on replacement income. That being said, we have already discussed this extensively in the Finance Committee. It's a subject in its own right. Mr Minister, it seems to me that we need to debate it to see whether this decision is justified, not only from a political point of view, but also in terms of basic tax justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u37	Mr Laaouej, I would like to remind you, first of all, that in 2008, when your party was at the helm, the tax-free sum was increased and that your party also provided compensation and reduced the benefit of pensioners. So I think it is a punishment for you to blame us for something your party itself did in 2008. Secondly, it is true that pensions are very low, the lowest pensions in Europe. Our government has certainly committed itself to focusing on measures relating to the lowest pensions in the years to come, so that those concerned can receive a higher pension. We have also said that we will make full use of the wealth envelope to meet it. In addition, the 30% disc disappears and this also benefits pensioners. The pensions are low and a low-pension pensioner would like to earn extra money. Those who are in good shape can usually rely on all kinds of constructions and companies, where they can still work after retirement or who can liquidate them. Our measures are intended precisely for those with a small pension who would very much like to earn some extra money. So far it is not worth the cabbage for a retired person who earns a few hours extra; he pays more than what he gets out of it. We want to do something about that. All the steps taken here, including the elimination of the 30 percent disc and the shift in the disks, will contribute to this. We are not responsible for the low pensions and we want to increase them. I do not think your speech is fair, because even now you are taking one small measure out of a complete package of the tax shift that is a problem for a target group. Let me remind you once again that in 2008 your party worked in the same way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u38	Mrs Wouters, I would remind you that, at the initiative of the PS Group and the sp.a group, this House has passed a law that increases the tax reduction for pensioners, in order to avoid the following perverse effect: when they had an increase from the welfare envelope, they came to see this increase completely neutralised, absorbed by an increase in their taxes. Also, do not blame the Socialist Party for the things it settles through parliamentary initiatives! There's a difference. One can very well imagine, if one wants to target an asset tax measure, to neutralize it for some replacement income. The difference between 2008 and today is that in 2008 there was no index jump on pensions. We didn't increase the VAT on electricity. That's the difference, Mrs. Wouters! As for the problem of the 30% tranche, I will send you tables, which show you that, unfortunately, most pensioners will not be entitled to it; indeed, pensioners with an income of less than €15,200 do not already pay the tax. They will not benefit from this enlargement, which will, on the other hand, benefit a small proportion of pensioners receiving an average pension. We held this debate in the Finance Committee. I am, of course, prepared to continue the discussion. If you agree, considering that you have made a mistake, we are fully prepared to support a legislative initiative. However, there are some positive aspects to the project. As far as the investment deduction is concerned, you double it. This reflects the fact that one will now focus not on the resources of a company but on the use it makes of them and thus, rather than working on the liabilities of the balance sheet, work on the assets of the balance sheet. It's a very good decision! You're targeting SMEs. You're right to do it! These measures should not be very expensive. As part of an intelligent corporate tax reform, we could look for ways in some tax niches, which in the end unfairly benefit large companies, without creating employment or investment, to re-inject them into SMEs. To do this, you have a tool: the deduction for investment that otherwise does not develop bureaucracy. Indeed, people fill out a form, the 276K of memory. They specify the investment they have made. This must be a new investment, not a second-hand investment. They enter the amount, apply the rate and get what they can deduct. The official of the tax administration comes once a year or every two or three years, to verify the investment. He then gives his approval and people have their tax deduction. These are steps that are very easily taken in the context of fiscal control. Mr. Piedboeuf won't contradict me. I believe that this is a very positive point which deserves to be welcomed. Similarly, thanks to measures taken by previous governments, our share of research and development in relation to GDP has increased quite significantly. These are small percentages but in relation to GDP, this is significant. This increase should be noted. We are also looking forward to the increased deduction for high technology. Why? Because this is the real problem of competitiveness. This is not by asphyxiating workers by wage cuts, index jumps, etc. You're going to make it. It is improving the quality of our economy that will enable us to strengthen our export, not to mention our domestic demand, because by depriving people of part of their income, you weaken domestic demand. That is the opposite of the policy you are pursuing. Devise your energy and creativity to see how you can strengthen structural competitiveness, research and innovation. Talk to the Regions. Talk to the Communities about universities. Let us make a major national plan for research and development. That is what needs to be done. The tax tool can be interesting in this context. Let us not lose sight of the fact that there are already tax measures that are costly to the Treasury, especially all the taxation on patents that in any case positions us in an interesting way. There is nothing to do, some Scandinavian countries, which have compulsory tax levels similar to ours, have strategies at the age of twenty or thirty that allow them to have particularly interesting and encouraging economic prospects today. Why not follow this path, even if I repeat, thanks to the efforts of previous governments, we are on the right track? The funding of the tax shift was discussed during the budget; I will not dwell on it. Unfortunately, I fear that you will be forced to tell our fellow citizens bad news. I must deplore the lack of dialogue with the Regions. Perhaps you could have refined with them the terms of your tax reform to prevent them from being placed before the fait accompli of a loss of their revenues. It was possible to do so. This was possible because there are ways of reducing taxes that do not affect the regions. But that was not your choice. I therefore reiterate my call for a dynamic fiscal federalism that leads you, Minister of Finance, to see your three colleagues on a regular basis. Once every month, every two months, every three months... I'm not going to set you a schedule here because I'm not sure you could follow it. But I really invite you to do so; budgetary federalism is not just a political trickle, it is a strategic approach to the relations we must have with Europe first, and then it is to be able to give our public finances the chance to be cleansed by avoiding insoluble political problems that delay decisions. Look at what is happening with tax regularization, which is referred to the Consultation Committee, just to take this example. I could also mention the episode of the 750 million, which made everyone waste a lot of energy; energy, time and money, if I may say so. I'm just coming to work. I look at the latest forecasts from the National Bank, which, in net balance, speak of 14,000 additional jobs by 2017. Fourteen thousand jobs for such an important tax reform, all this is not very encouraging! The reports of the National Bank and the Plan Office have referred to the lack of ex-ante financing of your tax shift, amounting to more than €6 billion, and finally to the conclusion that there will be a deterioration in public debt of 1.1 of GDP. The employment prospects that you are putting forward to justify your reform lead me to consider that public money is poorly placed. There was a way to do otherwise, by better targeting, in particular by not compressing domestic demand through increases in consumption taxes, but by targeting the bases that do not have a negative impact on the economy, i.e., among other things, income derived from speculation. But not like you did, but more decisively. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, by thanking you once again for the quality of your contributions – even Mr Bogaert, let us not be complacent – I would just like to say that if we want to fundamentally rethink our tax system, we will not escape the question of globalisation. This system, introduced in 1962 and which replaced the four cedular taxes, aimed at more progressivity, more tax justice, more efficiency and more simplicity. I know, Minister, that simplifying taxation is included in your policy statement. Nothing is simpler than globalization. You will tell me that by globalization, some will pay more taxes, including the middle classes. The problem can be solved by raising the exempted quota. It's one of the techniques. But making sure that all the income from labour, capital, can be globalized to be subject, together, to a progressive scale to the PPI does not seem to me to be without intelligence – allow me to be a little presumptuous – but above all efficiency. We could thus meet this requirement which I hope we share together: to strengthen tax justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u39	Madam Minister, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be a little lighter and less technical because, by saying the same things again for weeks, you end up getting tired especially when you hear the same things. When you get up in the morning, when the day comes, you cannot know how it will take place or how it will end. You don't live alone in a jar. The actions to be taken, the steps to be taken depend on the immediate or distant environment, the encounters, the events that arise here and there during our journey. Our own choices, if they can be conditioned by these elements of context, however, remain the central element of success or failure of the approach undertaken. No need for an example, we have all had the opportunity in our lives to perceive signs, to have impulses, a foreknowledge of an event or the consequences of a choice. Good preparation, reflection, care to secure options reduce risks. But insurance is never complete and, even if one cannot rely entirely on the maxim that luck smiles at the bold, it remains that at some point, one must dare to step forward, dare to act and bet on success. It is a question of culture, a philosophy, a vision of the world and a faith in man and his abilities: ability to undertake, ability to work, ability to understand and exercise his choices. Depending on whether one or more people decide, the line may vary, but the strengthening of an option by a joint option, the enrichment of reflection by that of a partner does not necessarily lead to a compromise that mitigates the desired effect. On the contrary, this can give more strength, coherence and motivation to a project. This is all the more the case when you share almost the same vision. That is exactly the strength of this government, of our government. It is said that from the shock of ideas comes light. We want to shed light on our country's path to a new vision, a new enthusiasm. We Liberals, together with our partners, want to mark another path, another vision of society. A vision that strengthens the desire to undertake and the will to create, that makes you want to work and that leaves no one behind; because our solidarity is active, because attention to others is in our genes. We can tell what we want, we can appropriate what we want, we can't rewrite the history of our social movements marked by the seal of freedom and intelligent emancipation. Our country, our dear country, despite sometimes its peripheral wanderings, needs enthusiasm. We have this enthusiasm. We want to inspire our enthusiasm. We have at home researchers, inventors, entrepreneurs, workers who ask nothing but the freedom to devote themselves to their work by receiving the right return of their efforts. More businesses, more jobs, less tax, more income, that's what people want, that's what we want. So, for real hope to live, we have to do what we have to do, we have to do what we need to do. We are not illusionists, we have our feet well on earth, and if our bet succeeds, we can do even better because we will have started the movement. We don't know if we're going to do this, but we're sure of one thing, Mr Gilkinet: it's that if we don't do what we've planned, then we're sure we won't.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u40	Very nice plea, Mr. Piedboeuf, with a lot of conviction. I can join you on some things. A budget, your tax shift, it's a bet. I note that you have very great convergences. You claim to have added up the qualities of the parties of the majority. Sometimes I wonder if this is not an addition of your flaws. You said right away, that's where I reacted, "if the bet succeeds." You always have to go on that idea. My difficulty in analysing the figures, even if there are measures that we support, is that the bet is uncertain. The financing of your measures lacks solidity. We risk seeing ourselves tomorrow with a much larger public deficit. I am generally optimistic about the nature of men and the effectiveness of public policies. But here I am basing myself on the analysis of the European Commission, which, although it has said positive things about the current financial year - that is its ideology - is nevertheless questioning the budgetary balance. I am not going to repeat the litany of the budget debate, but you have in mind the remarks made by the Court of Auditors and the Council of State which forced you to withdraw certain elements of the text which were intended to finance the tax shift. I feel like you're jumping off the plane without a parachute, and then all of our fellow citizens. Who's gonna pick up the pieces? Beyond your conviction, which is beautiful to hear, I need more solid, factual and argumentative elements. You seem to me to practice self-persuasion, wishful thinking, magic thinking about it. But, at some point, it takes solid things to run a state. Beyond the literary qualities of your speech, I cannot find these mathematical elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u41	You have, of course, read the opinions of the Planning Bureau, the opinions of the Commission, those of the National Bank, those of international experts. They're different, but they're going in the same direction. We're not only doing what we've been told to do for a long time, but we're predicting results that we fundamentally believe we can achieve. We have precisely been measured in the forecasts to be certain of these effects. The bet we're making is we're going to be able to go further if it succeeds.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u42	I've read the same documents as you. I do not deny that the Plan Office and the National Bank believe that this 6 or 8 billion shift tax should create jobs, and I welcome that. This is an important expenditure, it is an investment, in a difficult budgetary context and the relationship between cost and employment created, the rational and efficient use of means, is really problematic. I am not asking for more returns than announced, more jobs than announced, and more of our fellow citizens who will be able to emerge from a situation they have not chosen and therefore more funding for social security. But you deny all the indicators that show that this will not be the case and that we are going to achieve an even greater deficit, which you will want to resolve with measures that are even harder than those already taken by your government and by the previous one. You have not agreed to make sufficient efforts in terms of capital income. You have an extremely classic view of the economy, and you have no vision of the sectors of the economy that will drive jobs, well-being and better-shared prosperity. I regret that, even if there are positive elements. I'll do it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u43	Indeed, we do not have the same vision. We agree, we don't see the same thing. I say again, we don't know if we're going to make it, but we're sure if we don't do what we do, we won't. In the face of the strategy deployed by some, who are trying to scare pensioners, in the face of the sloganic approximations which, as we respond, move from slogan to outrageous cartoon, we oppose a list of measures which, from the announcement of actions, have turned into texts of laws which we will vote with enthusiasm and conviction. Others peel out election programs, trying to make people believe in a renunciation or even a lie – it becomes a fashionable vocabulary. We know that insult is the weapon of the weak. I would say to all these sorrowful minds, taking a phrase from Alfred Capus, that "you have to dream very high to not realize too low". That's what we're trying to do! Each brings its sensitivity, preferences, impossibility and synthesis results in strong and ambitious measures. In a difficult economic context, with a laborious growth rate, we want to breathe dynamism.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u44	Mr. Piedboeuf, I appreciate you very much. I think we're working very well in the Finance Committee. We also have an excellent committee chair. Nevertheless, I do not see where there were insults. I think it's outrageous. Very sincerely, I think the debate deserves better. I don't see where there were insults in my speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u45	Not at all! Not from you. I was referring here to the terms of lies that are so often used in recent months in Wallonia in general. I wasn't referring to you. And with regard to the peeling of the electoral programme, I was referring to Mr. Maingain's last intervention in committee, but I do not dwell on it because he is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u46	Mr Piedboeuf, in his speech, I congratulated Mr Laaouej. But I would also like to congratulate you so far on your speech because it is a rather general speech, almost a philosophical tale of Christmas. That's good at this time. Somewhere, your speech and the tone of your voice are quite comforting. All colleagues and those who listen to us in this country will be comforted. This contribution from you is quite positive in this Christmas season. The awakening will be hard as of January 1, 2016 but I do think your speech is appropriate. So don't go into the details too much! For this, you can be widely trusted. That's what you've been avoiding so far. The tone is, on the other hand, also appropriate. Thank you, Mr. Piedboeuf.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u47	So it's the concord and the spirit of Christmas. Hosanna in the highest heaven! A first objective is to increase competitiveness. My colleague, Ahmed Laaouej, welcomed the positive measures. We believe that the reduction in the employer burden on enterprises from 33 to 25 per cent over time is a good measure. This removes wage disadvantage with our neighbouring countries. Whether you want it or not, it's like that! Self-employed and SMEs are supported with an exemption from employers' contributions for the first job. It's a strong measure. There is a gradual reduction in social contributions. It's a strong measure. As Mr Laaouej said, there is an increase in the deduction for investments from 4 to 8 per cent and the same thing with regard to high technology. These are good measures that can boost economic activity and give enthusiasm to investment. Mention should also be made of the expectations of the professional discount exemption, originally planned for 2019, but which has been reduced to 2016. The same applies to the high technology sector. Secondly, we also encourage the private sector to invest in the construction of social housing and schools by reducing the VAT rate. The second objective is to strengthen purchasing power to reward work even more. A first step was the reduction of lump sum work, the extension of the bonus to employment and the social bonus. The second is in the form of an increase in the latter. The third will involve an increase in flat-rate professional fees, the reform of the tax brackets and the increase in the exempted quota. These are very important elements in terms of purchasing power. Funding for this reform was often discussed. Apart from what has been mentioned, it is based on taxation of capital. In this regard, we shall return to the collection of the Cayman tax, on which I hope we will be able to agree today. The speculation tax is another instrument. For now, we're talking about six months. Why not six months and a day or seven months? At some point, the framework needs to be clearly defined and set. What is targeted is speculation, as the Minister of Finance pointed out. That is how we envisage short-term speculation. With regard to the strengthening of the fight against tax fraud, we have seen that the minister has developed a plan, which we support. Of course, further clarification is still needed. If you ask me whether the MR agrees with this or with this, I will reply to you what I have already said in committee: we cannot be on our own initiative against certain measures, which we must obviously supervise, such as home visits or searches – a topical issue that was mentioned. We'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u48	Mr Piedboeuf, you did say that in committee. Mrs. Wouters and Mrs. Van Cauter had burned before you the minister's sharpest options. Therefore, you don't get very wet. You know that there will be no consensus in the government on the measures set out in the minister's note "Combating tax fraud", which we welcomed. I'm going to play the optimist. Will you support our proposals to apply within our tax administration the same information exchange standards as we have just adopted in the case of foreigners with accounts in Belgium? Yesterday we discussed with the Minister of Justice – and it was a little hard for him – the fight against terrorism, which also involves fighting the financing of terrorism. But as regards the fight against major financial crime and tax fraud, which costs public finances 10 to 20 billion a year, will you be our ally in this area? Your words don't mean much to you. Unfortunately, the minister's policy note, which had not been approved by the government, was a first-class funeral, a straw fire. However, I take note with interest of your commitment to be our ally; I will therefore propose that you co-sign the texts that we submit in this regard. Before you, we had a Liberal Finance Minister for over ten years. It has not organised the fight against tax fraud particularly effectively. It's an understatement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u49	You have to do the job when it comes. There are moments for everything. We all agree on the subject of combating tax fraud. We all want everyone to pay the tax they owe. We're going to work on what the MR and I are going to support. I have no problem working on all the topics. To take the example of the home visit, when we know that there is proven fraud, serious fraud, and in the process of happening, we can very well conceive a whole arsenal of measures. It is simply a matter of setting things right. You can't make house visits to all merchants at any time of day and night. The means must be carefully weighed, and that is what the Minister of Finance said in his presentation. The means must be appropriate to what is being sought. We will work together to establish appropriate means. There are no taboos. We must achieve the result we have set for ourselves. We have voted for a budget that includes revenue from the fight against tax fraud. Of course, we want to collect these revenues. I'm coming to the news. We will already take care of all those who come from banks around the world to try to run our tax arsenals. We will then see what we will do in Belgium. I'm referring to Messrs. Laaouej and Van Hees; the Belgian tax authorities have a wide range of means to achieve these results. I was a tax advisor. I fought with the IRS and this one has means. It should not be said that the Belgian taxpayer is not controlled. The National Bank and the Plan Office have also estimated the impact and, by establishing all macroeconomic parameters, have concluded that there has been a significant improvement in household growth, employment and disposable income. It's not us who say it, it's them. The two simulations also predict, in various ways, and it will probably be seen in January, back effects. They are different from one organization to another and we will discuss them if the chairman of the committee agrees that the heads of these bodies should be heard so that they can explain their economic models. I won't be much longer because we've already said everything and said it again for weeks. We've been on our way to set up a team. The government has succeeded in a programme of convergence of ideas and ambitions. Throughout the year, the teams worked hard to implement this engine of development with conviction. Our group will calmly but ardently support this great tax and social reform which bets on the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u50	Mr President, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, CD&V has gone to vote with economic growth and social progress. We are now in the time of our wishes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u51	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u52	You have to finish the evaluation, Mrs. Temmerman. It's never good to evaluate at the beginning. Mrs Temmerman and Mr Vanvelthoven, if certain parties wish to speak during an election campaign, they are all too quickly qualified as empty electoral promises. It is clear that what is now before us can pass the test of what we said then: economic growth and social progress. It would only be antisocial if we did not care about pensions and raising retirement age, and if we did not do so for the generation of politicians who are coming after us. It was your former party chairman who said that he knew what to do with pensions, but that he would not get elected with them. Well, in 50 years' time, we want to have the courage to look our electorate in the eye on that point.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u53	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u54	Mrs Temmerman, one can never cheat on his constituents by engaging. Ladies and gentlemen, that is precisely why the tax shift is in the coalition agreement. A first tax shift has already taken place. It is not just a moment of calibration that is a complete package. No, it really is a construction by this government team, with this majority. We already made a first tax shift at the end of 2014. After that, we also argued with our group to go even further, to take another step forward. We have asked to strengthen the competitiveness of our companies and to create even more jobs in our country. Of course, the second tax shift was necessary, as mentioned by my fellow Members in committee, because of competitiveness. After all, we must not forget that there was an effective problem with the falling figure of Belgian exports. That was rightly mentioned here this week during the debates in plenary on the budget. We could say, perhaps in contrast to some groups, that the 3D plan with its three dimensions, the social and economic dimension, supported by a strong government, has become a reality again today. In this respect, the coalition agreement speaks of a substantial reduction of burdens, away from labour. Now, if you look at what is being achieved now, you will see clearly that we are keeping our word. We will ensure an agreement with a concrete impact of the tax shift by the end of 2015. Hardly more than a year after the start of this government, economic growth is achieved with social progress. It is paradoxical that the criticism is that it is a bickering cabinet and that it is arguing. Of course, when it comes to basic choices, it collides extra hard, but sometimes it has to be seriously cackled before an egg can be laid. The people from a rural environment will be able to confirm that sometimes a fight between the cocks and the chickens is needed before something is produced. The bickering should not therefore be taken as negative. The results count and they are on today's agenda. Like the Cayman tax in its further refinement, this design fits in the search for a better fiscal balance between taxes on income, capital and consumption. A good balance between these three pillars is what we need to keep on our radar for the long term. For me, it's strange that there are supporters and opponents of this tax shift. One may be opposed to a particular measure or article, but especially people who have not read what is on the banks today say that it is not a good tax shift or that they cannot support it. There is no denying that there is also support for purchasing power. During the discussions, the opposition has often pretended that pensioners are not served by this draft, as if they were ignored in the elaboration of the tax shift. Well, there's the full funding and allocation of the welfare envelope. There is also the minute adjustment of the additional tax reduction for pensions and replacement income. I know, however, that certain scenarios have been screened and that absurd reasoning has been used to show that what is being given here is being taken away again. Anyone who makes simulations must, however, look at the totality and also look at all the refinements and all the tax and social provisions globally. It will then be seen that, for low incomes, for people with low pensions and for pensioners in general, there is certainly a need for higher purchasing power compensation. Let me give you an example of the increase in holiday money, which is no longer being skimmed tax-free.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u55	Mr Deseyn, you say that we take one element and then another and we draw conclusions, but you have a global vision. Do you have one or two examples in hand? For example, the pensioner who receives 1,200 gross euros of pension, what does he earn and what does he lose by taking into account all the elements (index drop, welfare envelope, VAT on electricity, tax reform)? Do you have two or three examples to support your claim that all pensioners earn in total?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u56	Mr Laaouej, you forget, of course, that very sophisticated arrangements have been developed precisely for the total exemption from low pensions. One cannot allow people who are already fully under the tax exemption regime to accumulate the extra debt securities. We need to find out where the tax needs are highest. If you are thinking about pensioners, you can look at abolishing or broadening certain tax brackets. However, there are other measures, such as the compensation for VAT and electricity. You will then see that measures of interest to the most needy pensioners are also on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u57	Mr Deseyn, it cannot be said in this forum that a small pensioner is a winner of all the measures you are taking. If you take them in isolation, for example from the perspective of the well-being envelope, at that point of course. But that's the whole thing you need to take. At this point, we don't have these estimates. A table from the government was not received, aligning all the measures and drawing the balance. The Minister of Finance speaks about his tax reform, the Minister of Pensions tells us about the revalorization of low pensions, a third tells us what he has done, not to mention the global index jump and not to mention that we must also integrate all the tax measures that some within the government are trying to hide. You cannot in this forum state peremptoryly that all pensioners will win and that none will lose. You can't say that!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u58	I can only agree with what Mr Laaouej says. One must, of course, look at the whole thing. For pensioners in Flanders it is therefore necessary to add all the measures taken by the Flemish Government. If you are only talking about tax relief, then two out of three pensioners from the private sector cannot benefit from it. Two out of three. That's quite a suit, isn't it? Then you dare to say here that the government is doing everything for those with the lowest pensions. I really think that's about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u59	Mrs Temmerman, that is, of course, the difference between your approach and ours. It is very easy to talk about linear measures, but here exactly choices are made in times of budgetary tightness, for the lowest incomes and for the most vulnerable. You'll always find a scenario in which someone actually gets a little less than anyone else. That's normal. However, it is of two things one. You cannot say, on the one hand, that we do not yet have a complete simulation that takes all the measures into account and, on the other hand, that you can already demonstrate exactly that two-thirds are not eligible for government intervention. That is not a coherent argument. In addition to the competitiveness was also the just taxation that might make you smile a little bit more, a theme of the tax shift. Well, the proposed tax shift also contributes to an increase in tax equity. Important steps have been taken, which we may recall. I'm talking about the speculative tax, the withholding tax and the caiman tax. It is true, our party was very ambitious in that. She asked for more in that regard. I believe, however, that it is much better to have a defensive compromise on the banks today than to have no commitment at all on the sidelines, so that nothing can actually happen. Of course, the project of fair taxation remains important. It's far from done. We will continue to raise this issue; it will remain a policy line as far as our group is concerned, so that the focus is not lost. When we talk about fair taxation, it is not just about shifting taxes. The tax shift has already taken several steps in this respect. However, we must also look at the existing rules and their application. That is why the fight against tax fraud is a top priority. Everyone has had to acknowledge that and the opposition has certainly done so. It was to this extent enthusiastic that, after a long discussion, she said that she would examine month after month with a board table whether the Minister's anti-fraud plan could be worked out properly. If that is not a major support for the plans of the majority, then I do not remember either. Combating fraud is not only domestic, it is a global issue. It is therefore very good that we have already completed the transposition of the assistance directive at the beginning of the legislative period. There has been a great deal of scepticism over the last few months as to whether we could actually achieve such a tax shift as is currently the case. Ultimately, the cumulative amount of the shifts is as much as EUR 7 billion. If our group had not put permanent pressure on the boiler and found support from the majority, we would never have reached such a good amount. The wealthy and on enlargement those who generate income from capital contribute both directly and indirectly through the withholding tax, speculation tax, VAT and excise duties. Low wages and middle wages are further supported by a substantial reduction in charges and by specific measures in different sectors. As far as the sector approach is concerned, it would be advisable to provide even more tailor-made sectors in future policies. It is very difficult to compare the economic competitiveness of one sector with that of another. There was, of course, general urgency regarding competitiveness. Spectacular wage cuts have been achieved by looking at the tables, especially for first-time workers. This intervention has now taken place, but with the little money that will be available in the future, more targeted choices would be made to suit the sectors not only to reduce wage burdens, but also to strengthen competitiveness. We've got the ball of the tax shift rolling. The opposition was a bit in the role of the hare, if I may bring in the fable of the turtle and the hare. The opposition hare then proposes to detonate quickly, because it is all incorrect and not properly arranged. The opposition hare was convinced that he would defeat the turtle in the big jump. It is always good to listen before bedtime until the end of the analogy, or one could draw wrong lessons from it. However, most of these fables have a strong educational aspect, Mr Laaouej. Maybe I could finish my reasoning.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u60	Finish your reasoning.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u61	I'll go back to our turtle position. Mr President, the turtle stated that it would win and so it happened. After all, the hare had mistreated itself, not only by the laws of nature, but above all by the laws of politics. I can refer, by analogy, to the criticism and disbelief of the last few weeks and months. It was said there wouldn't be anything from the tax shift anyway. It would be a dead sparrow. It was just words and not deeds. It didn't go far enough. Well, the second tax shift is here. It took a lot of time and effort. However, now that the spirits are ripening, we can certainly, in the long term, also come to a more fundamental review of our taxation. So, Mr President, the turtle will make it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u62	We have to see if the shell of the turtle is as strong as she claims. Do you agree, Mr. Deseyn, with Mr. Van Rompuy, who believes that we will probably have to make at least 8 billion more efforts by 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u63	As with any budgetary assessment, this is about developments that are difficult to predict. One could, of course, give a reading and I think Mr Van Rompuy had enough arguments to say that the effort that will have to be made will be very significant and will be about large volumes. You are always creating confusion because you do not want to look at the measures contained in the tax shift financing and because you always link the general budget challenge with the tax shift measures. However, the tax shift has been financed in itself, as the Minister has shown in abundance. However, this does not rule out the fact that there is still a great deal of budgetary effort to be made in multiannual planning, which is indeed about volumes of several billions. However, one cannot be confused with the other. It cannot be said that this tax shift is irresponsible because it is not financed because there are, in general, major budgetary challenges. It is precisely those two levels that you always want to get mixed up in the debate in order to prove the great equal of one or the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u64	Mr President, I agree with what Mr Deseyn says. Mr Laaouej, we do not so much disagree on the objective. The governor of the National Bank says that in 2018-2019 we should go to a balance, whether nominal or structural, I leave it in the middle. The National Bank says, and this has been confirmed by the European Commission, that we may still have a deficit of 2.5 percent of GDP in 2017, which is around 9 billion. However, the National Bank does not take into account the proceeds from the fight against fraud and the possible redesign and estimates the revenue from the increase in VAT on electricity lower than the government. I am not speaking about the tax neutrality of the tax shift because the committee has learned that there can be differences of opinion on the revenue. In 2017, 2018 and 2019, as stated in the general explanatory statement, we will have to make efforts, 2 billion in 2017, 2 billion in 2018 and 3.2 billion in 2019. If you add that up, you also get about 7 to 8 billion, which is the same order of magnitude. As far as tax-shift revenue is concerned, these measures, and certainly capital revenue such as the caiman tax, the withholding tax and, where appropriate, the fight against fraud, remain uncertain factors. These are linked to capital, taxation and the fight against fraud, and no precise amounts can be attached to them. The fact that efforts will have to be made in the next few years if a zero balance is to be achieved is separate from the discussion as to whether or not the tax shift is neutral in itself. Much of this depends on economic development. You know that, too. If, partly because of the tax shift, we can boost growth and employment rates by 2017-2018, the budgetary context will look completely different than if we were to do nothing today and wait. On the other hand, we carry out a purchasing power injection of 2% of GDP for about 8 billion. I said the same thing yesterday. We must take risks because doing nothing is not an option, not even as far as exports are concerned. After all, the engine of the Belgian economy is not only consumption, but also exports. That is actually why CD&V wanted to start the tax shift, namely because labour costs have to go down and have to be cheaper. That is why I am disappointed with the statements made by the Socialist Group. The essence of the tax shift is a reduction in employers' contributions and a reduction in labour costs to stimulate employment and growth. We have done everything we can to safeguard purchasing power, in the sense that the National Bank says that real disposable income will increase by 2% within 2 to 3 years. In 2015 and 2016, the National Bank speaks of an increase of 1%. So what I said is entirely coherent with what Mr Deseyn says. The next few years we cannot be quiet about the budget. These questions ask themselves, but they will also depend on economic development. They are not so much concerned with the fact that the government is supposedly deliberately creating a hole. It will be a problem in general, but even without a tax shift we would have had a problem in 2017-2018. We must look at how the situation is evolving in the following years, but we must not throw the child away with the bath water.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u65	Mr Van Rompuy, the more I listen to you, the more obscure it becomes. I do not understand very well what the position and analysis of the CD&V is. Mr Deseyn did not answer the question that I asked him whether or not he was holding the 8 billion you are talking about. If we actually find ourselves in need of funding of $8 billion, you'll have to explain to us how you found them. 8 billion return effect, that seems a lot to me. Are you going to have to take further action? Will these measures not have a negative effect on employment because they would be tax increases or savings in public expenditure, i.e. a decrease in public demand? I think the CD&V C today is the C of confusion. We are in the most complete confusion. I don't know how you get along within the government on the fiscal trajectories. Little parenthesis, more than 2% of disposable income, that doesn't mean much. The question is how this increase is distributed among people. That's what's important. If your increase in disposable income results in an increase in savings, you will not have effectively arranged or supported domestic demand. I regret to note that, once again, you do not agree within the government on the remaining effort to make because of the decisions you make. It's a real problem. Perhaps I have a gift idea for the new year: a compass for the CD&V. Perhaps he will make good use of it to find himself in the fog he creates himself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u66	Mr Deseyn, this is indeed a difficult exercise for you. Beautiful metaphor of the hare and turtle. I confirm that our group, in the context of topical issues in particular, has asked very regularly by the majority where this tax reform remains, which must transfer the cost of labour to other income and allow the cost of labour to be reduced and the contribution of capital to the financing of social security in particular increased. With the government, you're the turtle, you've taken your time. But the copy that you're handing us is squandered, full of uncertainties, full of questions about the future, that Mr. Van Rompuy, in his capacity as Chairman of the Finance Committee, while in the majority, tries to highlight, especially on Sundays when he is bored and writes on his blog. I thank him for his freedom of speech and for the fact that a member of the majority dares to say that the account is not entirely correct. Your tax shift is not our tax shift! If we can support certain measures, we cannot support those relating to the distribution of income, the transformation of our economy into a less carbonized model of the future, the efficiency of allocation of resources. Therefore, we will defend amendments. Mr Deseyn, the turtle has provided what it calls a shift tax, "carp, I'm baptizing you rabbit", but the result is not quite satisfactory.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u67	Mr Deseyn, I am not going to repeat what my colleagues from the opposition have said and with which I fully agree. However, I would like to address Mr Van Rompuy through you, saying that the disappointment is mutual. Mr Van Rompuy, it has not been so long since CD&V lasted here at high and low, through Mr Vercamer, that everyone should contribute to that tax shift, everyone. You went for an added value tax so that the assets would also help to build the future of this country. Only we now find that CD&V has left this path. That is also a very serious disappointment. It is, of course, a question of reducing the burden of wages. Mr Van Rompuy, you keep saying that we are opposed to this. No, not at all. Only we want a targeted reduction in the burden of wages because it provides more jobs, and we want to finance them differently. Again, not long ago, perhaps a month or six, your party also felt that the reduction in wages should be partly financed by capital and capital. I am very disappointed that, among other things, you did not bring in the added value tax that you were also in favour of. That's a big disappointment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u68	Mr President, I will first answer Mrs Temmerman's question. I don't know where she made it that CD&V dropped out at that point. The preparatory documents are ready, the working group is ready. It is not because there is not yet an agreement on everything that one must refuse to see the good that is already on the banks. So I don't know where you're getting that from. As far as the added value tax is concerned, Mrs Temmerman, there is the step of speculation tax as it stands. This is about a tax on added value alongside the other added value taxes that are already in the system. That this is not a closed case for us is also true. Your statement that this is no longer an issue for CD&V does not apply at all. That's right. Anything can be better. I would like to answer your question with the answer I will also give to Mr Laaouej. He said, "This is the C of confusion." I would rather say: "Reassuring yourself, it is above all the C of creativity but also of coalition and belief in this tax shift!" You have also said that we must strike a certain balance from work. That was also the remark of other members. That's pretty much the idea. Tax expenditure will indeed be needed to finance competitiveness. That is the whole idea of the tax shift, also in the light of the economic forecasts of the coming years, namely that we will now prune, in order to make it flourish better. When a patient is resuscitated with oxygen, the doctor loses the oxygen but has resuscitated his patient. That's the exercise that's going on today. We will indeed finance this through fiscal expenditure, in order to boost the economy and generate sufficient revenue in the long term. I do not understand why the opposition is struggling with the fact that someone is throwing Parliament's work into questioning the multiannual budget. It would be bad, if one were blind, if one were to wipe the problem under the mat and spend extra money and if one could not find the balance at all and also wipe the long-term vision and sustainability off the table. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a credit to someone who points this out precisely and proposes that budgetary orthodoxy should be well practiced in words and deed in the near future. If we do not take any more stringent measures in the months and years ahead, we risk missing the European boat. Mr Gilkinet, you point out that my tax shift is not your tax shift. The difference between yours and my tax shift will be that our tax shift will be approved. That is a fact and a not insignificant difference. It is true that Belgian taxation will need to be modernised even more. We must look at the work programme for the coming years in the light of our New Year's wishes, which I started with. Without becoming too technical, I can tell you that we have already launched the idea of dual income tax. We've been arguing for that for a while. It can be seen in many modalities because there are quite a few variants. It is not just a question of increasing taxes and making people pay more; it is essentially a question of simplification. This simplification is still lacking. We know that the tax system is very complicated and the more complicated it is, the more likely it is to be abused. If we want more efficiency and more justice, we must certainly work towards simplifying the system in the coming years. That will be an important task for the Minister of Finance. Fortunately, the principle is in writing in the coalition agreement. The coat rack is here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u69	Mr Deseyn, I am very interested in this question. Why did you accept the increase in taxation on citizen loans? This measure had been put in place by the CD&V under the previous legislature. The idea was to put in place attractive taxation on these loans that finance investments of general interest. Why did your group accept the increase in taxation on citizen loans?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u70	Mr Laaouej, you are referring to the thematic public loans. In this respect, more uniformity was chosen in the system, with an option for certain things that were still wanted to be supported. It's clear that this exercise isn't over yet. Many things have been harmonised, especially in the withholding tax, after the lifting that we experienced in the previous legislature. It is true that there are still some exceptions left and right. However, the line we are pursuing is aimed at achieving as many things as possible at the same level. That increases transparency. Initiatives can be taken as a function of very specific needs or sectors. This applies, for example, to SMEs, to which you refer in every speech, so that we can go a lot further for SMEs. Moreover, this government has introduced even more diversification among large and small companies, with micro-enterprises. From the same reasoning, you could ask why we do not even agree on all of this, but we do not, of course, live in a communist system where we would be able to reconcile all the measures. We must also do justice to diversification, as it presents itself socially and economically in society. However, the practice remains to achieve greater uniformity; there can be no doubt about that. Ladies and gentlemen, on certain aspects announced in the Tax Shift Agreement, you will not read very much in the texts today. The Minister did talk about this when he talked about the redesign of the government and the specialised investment vehicles for real estate, also a concern of the PS. Precisely because we want to keep the capital in Belgium, we must ensure that we are not subject to investment whims from foreign groups. I think that the Minister has explained very well in committee what the plans are in this respect, including for the next political year of work. It is therefore very important that we follow up, also to check all the commitments. As far as the financing of the tax shift is concerned, amounts have indeed been mentioned. For example, several hundreds of millions would be obtained from efficiency gains in government. That is where the relevant ministers will have to deliver. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this tax shift is balanced and offers perspective. There is perspective for the employees, for those who have a job to keep their job, and for those who have no job to get one. That is sometimes forgotten in the discussion. We are staring blindly at promises, which must of course be made by the entrepreneurs in our country, by the economic realities, but we sometimes forget that this tax shift contributes substantially to job retention. In addition to the number of new jobs, the number of jobs at risk should also be counted, in order to really measure the output of this tax shift. Those who make efforts will be rewarded with purchasing power. This is a tax shift that offers perspective both to employers in the form of competitiveness and to employees. It is a clear combination of economic growth and social progress. That was our starting point, and it will always be. It's true the work isn't done. Fortunately, we still have a lot of time in this legislature. The fact that today's work is already finished is certainly encouraging.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u71	Mr President, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as I said in the vote in committee, we can finally vote on something that has been questioned for a long time, something that has been discussed a great deal. Finally, we can vote on the tax shift. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that in this half-round, no one has ever denied that, if we want to maintain our prosperity, we must increase our level of employment. Many hands do light work, workable work, as we have often said here. With too high wage costs, this is an almost impossible exercise. Then it becomes a vicious circle in which working and doing little wages, a vicious circle that is impossible to break. Colleagues, a restoration of competitiveness and purchasing power was an effective electoral promise made by my group. These measures were then included in the coalition agreement. My group is therefore pleased to support the work of this government, which has worked out this tax shift with ambition, courage and decisiveness. This government is working on a massive shift of burdens, which is de facto also a reduction of charges. We support that. This is a burden shift that removes a total of EUR 7.2 billion from work and enterprise. The government does that in economically difficult times. That is not evident and I do not think that anyone of majority and opposition is unaware of the difficulty of this exercise. It's kind of like entrepreneurship. The environment has brought lemons and the government, with the support of this Parliament, is giving oxygen and energy to make lemonade with these lemons. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the path my group wants to take. With the tax shift we create the environment that is necessary to give our economy a necessary boost. We reduce the burden on companies to boost work and job creation and attract new investments. We also reduce the burden on people working so that work becomes attractive again or more attractive and purchasing power increases. Less gross, more net. The most important thing is to enlarge the cake. This means that we are primarily committed to greater competitiveness. Finally, we in this House have found a majority willing to accept that if work is too expensive, jobs cannot be created. Even though entrepreneurs are often of good will and want to make efforts, the law of reality is hard, but simple. If wage costs cannot be recouped, a job must be lost, let alone additional places can be created. We do not need one, not two, but thousands of new jobs. That is what this government wants to make possible. That is why we are committed to a substantial reduction in the burden of wages. We are not only reducing the social rate of patronial contributions from 33% to 25%, but at the same time we are strengthening the existing reduction in the burden on low wages, in particular those which are already subject to a reduced rate today, so that a further reduction in the burden on low wages will also be achieved, to less than half at the end of the legislative term. For next year, this means already a commitment of 620 million euros. Together with the measures already decided on in the Competitiveness Pact and the index jump, we are ensuring that the wage burden of our companies is kept within control. For example, our wage handicap will be reduced in relation to our main trading partners, and then disappear. In this way, we strengthen the competitiveness and investment opportunities of our companies by EUR 2.7 billion. In addition to reducing the cost of patronial contributions, we also support night and shift work, start-ups with the tax shelter, and the catering industry with the regulation on overtime and flexi-jobs. We also pay particular attention to our small and medium-sized enterprises and to our self-employed, who are an important employer, not only for themselves but also for many others. The vast majority of our employees are employed in such enterprises. They shall not pay any contribution to the initial recruitment. That's an important incentive. Not only will the first recruitment arrangements be improved, but the burden on the second to sixth recruitment will also be further reduced. On top of that, ladies and gentlemen, the opposition also appreciated this measure. In the long run, employment is crumbling. It is crucial that an important incentive is developed or strengthened by the government in this area. It is not just the investment deduction in general; it is also........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ This is a very important measure for the future. Not only are we improving the overall patronage and the investment deduction, but we are also working towards a better social status for the self-employed. It has never been seen before that at the same time as measures to strengthen competition for businesses in general, aimed at job creation, we are also thinking of those who often also create a lot of jobs, our self-employed. I said it in committee and I repeat it: we have had to wait until 2007 for the integration of social security contributions for self-employed persons for small risks. For decades, the health care of employees was provided, while for the self-employed it was only in 2007. It is an important signal that the government is working hand in hand with employers and employees to promote the social status of the self-employed and also to reduce the contribution. Colleagues, I think we're breaking a trend. We are finally tackling our greatest handicap, the over-wage costs. The government cannot create jobs or impose their creation, but it can intervene on environmental factors, making it possible for employers to invest in people and thus to hire additional employees. It can create an environment favourable to investment, to start with an enterprise and to recruit additional labour. That is what our government is doing and what we support. Of course we are not blind and we also pay attention to the purchasing power of those who work. We also pay attention to the fact that those who work must be rewarded. This is why we are committed to additional fiscal reform in favour of those who work and work. The first drive of 30% in the passenger tax is therefore deleted. The result cannot be questioned. Who works, who works something more, or who makes a commitment to his career, will eventually earn more. In my view, this is a reality that cannot be escaped. This will at least encourage people to get to work and stay at work. The difference between working and not working is effectively worth the effort so that the number of shoulders that bear our prosperity will increase. In addition to the deletion of the tax base of 30%, we will also ensure that the flat-rate professional cost is increased. From 2019 onwards, we will increase the tax-free allowance. I have just heard in a number of statements by the opposition the accusation that we have forgotten the weaker pensioners. In my opinion, a number of fellow Members have already pointed out that small increases were being made for the lowest pensions. We are indeed only talking about small percentages. We have finally brought the minimum pension of the self-employed into line with the minimum family pension of employees. I believe that these are important measures. I am also convinced that a package of measures alone will never solve all the problems. When I hear Mr Laaouej talking about the discrepancy within the pension scheme as it exists today, that is a discrepancy that may be greatest in relation to self-employed pensions. This discrepancy has arisen for decades, and a number of measures are now being implemented gradually. Mr Laaouej, this is a tax shift but not a pension shift. If you have in mind that there should be more equality in the pension scheme and if you think that there should be a shift from the highest pensions to the lowest as we know them today, then I think you will find an interlocutor in us. You should think about that. Here too there may be a shift to realize. However, this is not the subject of this discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u72	Mrs Van Cauter, that's not what I said. Since the beginning of the legislature, the government's thesis is that on pensions, the index jump is offset by the welfare envelope. There is another problem: the increase in VAT on electricity is a serious problem for pensioners, and in particular for small pensioners. Indeed, the ratio between the increase in the consumption tax for their small pension is higher than in the situation of a more comfortable pension, if any, or of a more comfortable working income. For small pensioners, the increase in VAT will have a very hard effect. This one, you do not compensate for it with the tax reform. That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u73	Mr Laaouej, I understand what you are saying, but you have said more than that. Of course, the VAT rate of 21% on electricity will have an impact. However, you are talking about a tax increase which is actually not a tax increase but a recovery to the original rate. This is because in practice it was found that there was abuse, so that the distinction is difficult to make. However, do you think that if the rate is reduced from 21% to 6%, the problems for people with low pension benefits have been solved? Have they solved the problems of the small self-employed with a low pension? I am convinced that this does not remove the problems, just as all the measures that are on the table today are not of the kind that they solve all the problems in our society. There's only one possibility and one cure, especially getting more people to work. If we create more jobs, we can free up more resources for those who deserve our concerns.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u74	Mr President, I do not know whether Mrs Van Cauter reads Test-Achats, but this magazine had quantified the average total amount of the increase in VAT on electricity for Belgian households; it was EUR 100 per year. When I hear adverbs such as "hardly," I think we need to moderate ourselves. A pensioner does not consume much electricity. I've been dealing with tax cases for years, and I know what the averages of consumption are for each other. The difference between the rate of 6% and the rate of 21% is an increase, of course, but it does not deserve terms such as "hardly". I wanted to give you that clarification, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u75	Mr Piedboeuf, through Mrs Van Cauter, I would like to say that all poverty groups agree that the increase in VAT on electricity is the most important factor for the people with the lowest income. All kinds of factors are involved, including the fact that the heating is often electric with these people. The VAT increase therefore weighs more heavily on low-income people than on others. Mrs Van Cauter, in the previous legislature, your current chairman has rightly defended the reduction in VAT from 21% to 6%, because it was assumed that this was a basic principle. Electricity, like water, is a basic requirement. Now you say there were abuses, then take them. At that time, your current President also argued that we absolutely had to go to 6%, because it was a basic need. Abuse is being identified, although it is still unclear what they are like. Why don't you take care of the abuse? That seems to me to be the logic itself. Using that as an argument now is totally wrong. You just want to solve a budget problem. Therefore, the VAT on electricity is increased. There's no other explanation for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u76	Mrs Van Cauter, at the PTB, 250,000 signatures were collected in a petition for the reduction of the VAT rate on electricity to 6%. We were told that this decrease would be used to prevent an increase in the index-pivot for wage indexation. Today with this government, we see that we have both index jump and electricity taxed at 21%. What is the point of reducing personal taxes to increase consumption taxes that more severely affect small incomes? Why increase VAT and excise duties? If they have to repaint the thing in the form of taxes, what is the point of reducing the tax on natural persons?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u77	Mr Piedboeuf, 100 euros for a small pensioner, that's a lot of money!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u78	Mr President, as Mr. Van Hees, this is an average for all households. This is why at least 15 measures have been taken in favour of pensioners. But you deny these efforts! Small incomes are precisely those that are positively targeted in our tax reform. You completely hide the efforts that are being made towards low wages! The proof is that you are now saying that it is the middle classes that are injured by our tax shift.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u79	I take back a small insert from the former President of the MR, currently Prime Minister, who says: "Thanks to us, we have reduced VAT on electricity and we are committed never to re-increase it". You need to know what you want! There were also commitments from the MR on television sets to avoid an index jump. You made three promises, you didn't keep them! Mr. Piedboeuf, you're talking about average. I can provide you with electricity bills from pensioners I know, which have an increase of 10 to 15 euros per month, because Electrabel has rushed to announce to them an increase in their electricity bill. If for you, 100 euros, it's not much, know that, for small pensioners, it's a lot of money!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after VAT on electricity, the tax shift also had to be financed. There has been a lot to do about this. Our chairman of the committee did not go unnoticed in that debate. Through the explanations given by the government, the Court of Auditors, the Planning Bureau and the European Commission, he, together with us, has found that the tax shift has been financed for the first two years. However, we cannot predict what the future will bring. The government has defensively budgeted the payback effects. If we can believe the Planning Bureau and the Court of Auditors, the payback effects of such an order of magnitude that the gap so often spoken of will be financed entirely and exclusively by those payback effects. It will be no different with the current government than with the reality of every enterprise. Eventually, at the end of the journey, at the end of the day and at the end of the year, when the government wants to invest in an additional creation of jobs, the logic will be the same. When we find that additional efforts need to be made, we will have to work harder. If necessary, we will have to find solutions that are acceptable to all. Mr Van Rompuy, on that unchanged policy, which the European Commission has pointed out, her figures are based. A number of budget lines were even taken out of account because they are difficult to predict. That is a reality that we do not want to deny either. However, claiming that the tax shift is not funded and that the route is not feasible is intellectually unfair. We will strongly oppose this claim.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u81	Mrs Van Cauter, if to say that the tax shift is not financed is intellectually incorrect, to say the opposite is just as incorrect. We are not going to repeat all the debates, but read like me the blogs and comments of the Chairman of the Finance Committee. This tax shift is an interesting opportunity, but on the one hand it is not financed and risks driving our state into serious budgetary difficulties and, on the other hand, the way in which you affect the resources released is the waste of money from social security. I can't let you say that those who say it's not funded are intellectually dishonest. So you say the Court of Auditors is intellectually dishonest. You say that the European Commission is intellectually dishonest. You say that the Council of State, which says that your texts are not on the road, is intellectually dishonest. Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u82	Mr Gilkinet, I have said that funding is guaranteed for the starting years of the tax shift, and that the future will tell whether the economy is attracted by the efforts that are being made, whether more people are actually going to work and whether there are the necessary payback effects. The estimates made by the government are more defensive than optimistic. If we are to believe the Planning Bureau and the Court of Auditors, the long-term financing also seems feasible. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u83	Mrs Van Cauter, you have not yet answered my question as to why to increase indirect taxes such as VAT in order to reduce the tax on natural persons, which in my view only increases inequality. Can you deny that a person who is not subject to personal tax because his income is not sufficient will not benefit from the reduction of that tax, but will pay more tax, more VAT? I would also like to recall the remarks made by our Prime Minister, Charles Michel, on VAT on electricity. I have in my hand the visual that he did that will also interest Mr. Piedboeuf. I quote Mr Michel: "VAT on electricity falls from 21 % to 6 %, promise kept." And he added: "With tenacity, we have been able to convince that it is essential to increase the purchasing power of citizens, at a time when energy expenditure represents a heavy financial burden in families' budgets."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u84	It is not necessary to return forever to the same debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the financing of the tax shift, I am absolutely not ashamed that the government has opted for increases in excise duties on tobacco and alcohol, which is a choice for taxation of negative externalities, as it is called. This will lead to savings in health care and the increase in excise duties will contribute to the financing of the tax shift. It is said not to understand why a reduction in the tax on persons is being chosen. However, that is quite clear. Our government wants to motivate people to work, to work and thus contribute. More shoulders can ensure that we, more than today, can take care of those who are unhappy, but in good faith. Today, we cannot make enough effort for these people. My group also feels that this is the case. That is why that choice was made. The objective is for more people to get to work. We want to give more people the courage to go to work or to earn a living, so that there is more in the state treasury, so that we can take care of those who need our care. That's why.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u86	I would just like to say to Mrs Van Cauter that in my region, on the side of La Louvière, there is one job available for 40 jobseekers. I don't know how you're going to stimulate them more to find a job. There is no job anyway. That's the real problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u87	Maybe we shouldn't abandon these people? Nor can you deny that there are a lot of bottleneck professions for which people are looking for workers. Maybe we should reorient those people to such a job? Perhaps we should provide retraining routes? Perhaps we should ensure that we do not abandon these people? Colleague, working is absolutely not a punishment! Working is a privilege. Working gives social contacts. Work gives you an available income that allows you to exist in a humane manner. We support that. We cannot solve everything by means of these measures alone. I believe that there should be cooperation with the different regions to ensure that people who need a job can also find a job. Companies that are hopelessly looking for workers and do not find them must be able to find those workers so that the company can run and an added value is created. That's our assignment. This is just a piece of a very large puzzle that many actors have to put together. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the financing of the tax shift is concerned, I would like to briefly mention two measures. First of all, the browsing tax. It seems logical to me that no one escapes the dance. It also seems logical to me that everyone should make their contribution. By introducing a viewing tax one can put a brake on deloyal tax competition or escape from a contribution obligation. We want to support this measure, Minister. Secondly, with regard to speculation taxation, I said in committee that we are a cool lover of this. I can only repeat that. It is not the case that we believe that speculation should be profitable. Our only concern, which has made us reluctantly adopt this measure, is that we must not stand in the way of the financing of our businesses. Sustainable financing is of the utmost importance. How many start-ups have we seen leaving abroad, precisely because it is easier to obtain funding in some regions of the Community and in some countries. That's why we hesitated. Not because we wanted to encourage speculation, or because we did not want to tax it, but because we did not want to stand in the way of the sustainable financing of our companies. We can only hope that the introduction of this speculative tax will help to stabilise the exchange rate fluctuations, which may be a reason for private individuals to invest little in companies through the stock exchange. A stable price-profit ratio can encourage private individuals to invest more in our companies. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude my speech. A lot of work has been done. It is now important that we keep our finger on the wrist and monitor further. Mr Van Mechelen made this clear during the budget debate. It is important that we do not rest on our laurels now but continue to work. This will require efforts from our employees and our companies, but also from ourselves. We still have a great deal of legislative work ahead of us, think of the e-commerce sector, which has already been mentioned. We export a lot of purchasing power in this sector, and that is why jobs are lost here. Think of the flexi-jobs as well. We need to evaluate that. Perhaps tax revenue will be even greater than if we had not introduced these measures. Perhaps we should consider, ladies and gentlemen, whether we can extend these measures to other sectors. This is a legitimate question from the field, for which we absolutely must pay attention. Colleagues, at least we are convinced that if the citizens, businesses and the legislator, together with the government, move forward, our economy and thus our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip091x.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we interrupt our work now. We'll resume at 2:15 p.m. Some speakers are still registered. Then we'll have the government's response. Votes should take place around 5 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Friday, 18 December 2015, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Friday 18 December 2015 at 2.15 p.m.
