ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u1	Mr President, let me begin with the debriefing of last Monday's European summit and of last Thursday's summit of European Heads of Government, which lasted a long time but where they finally looked at each other deeply. This will probably have to happen in the coming weeks because there are still a number of issues. Ladies and gentlemen, we have all been deeply seized by the terrible disasters of the last few weeks and days, especially the 19 April disaster, which killed up to 950 people, many of whom were horribly locked up below decks. It goes without saying that I have also personally been struck by so much suffering in such a seemingly hopeless situation. I would like to outline the big picture and give some figures. After all, there are quite a few misunderstandings, or at least some ideas about how things are put together, which may not be entirely consistent with the truth. It seems to me that we can only conduct the debate after a thorough analysis of the situation. So I would like to explain a few figures. In 2014, around 170 000 boat refugees crossed the Mediterranean Sea. Between 500 000 and 1 million people would be ready to leave Libya. We note that the crossing takes place through three major routes and I will explain it on the basis of a plan. The old western route departs from Morocco and runs over Tunisia and part of Algeria mainly towards Spain and Portugal. Ceuta and Melilla are the two most famous places on that route. The second major route is the center route, which is now the most important. This is mainly followed by boat refugees who usually go from Libya to Sicily or via Lampedusa to Sicily. The third major route, the Western Balkan route, runs over Greece. Through Turkey, Serbia, and Hungary, we enter the Schengen area. Bulgaria and Romania are European Member States, but do not yet belong to the Schengen area, while Hungary is. I was in Serbia last week when the drama took place. As a result, I could not be in Luxembourg on Monday, but Ministers Jambon and Reynders were there. In Serbia it was about that third route, which is also substantial and where every month many people try to cross border illegally. Then there are two major supply routes. The first is from West Africa, with Niger as the transfer country. In Niger, a local economy is driving that supply. The BBC recently broadcast a nice report on this. Especially through Senegal, Mali, Côte d'Ivoire or Nigeria, people go to Libya, where they try to take a boat to get into Europe. The second supply route starts from the Horn of Africa and statistics mainly reflect Somalia, Ethiopia and Eritrea. That route goes across Sudan through the desert to Libya and through Libya's coastline people are trying to cross Italy. Those are the two major routes. The figures in the statistics of the IOM International Organization for Migration (IOM) on the arrivals by sea in Italy from January to March 2015 are, in my opinion, the most important ones I have seen in recent weeks. This shows that the first nationality is the Gambian, with 1 413 refugees of which 1 270 men. The second nationality is Senegalese, with 1 187 refugees of whom 1 143 men. The third nationality is Somali. For these first two countries, the chances of asylum are not particularly high. They are mainly economic refugees, people looking for a better future. I do not blame them, I might do the same, but the Geneva Convention does not serve that purpose. I will address the questions on economic migration later. That is still a separate debate, but I will be happy to respond to it because our government has an ambitious programme on this. As I said, the third nationality is Somali. This is where we reach the danger zone. The fourth nationality is Syrian. For these two nationalities, the degree of recognition is high because for years there has been either a major conflict, or a very active conflict, such as in Syria, or a very dormant conflict, such as in Somalia. The recognition for people from Somalia is not only due to the conflict situation, but also because the risk of genital mutilation is high in their country. It is a country to which we pay a great deal of attention. Of the 1 107 Somalis there are 715 men, of the 1 056 Syrians there are 769 men. I requested those figures specifically for today because it's important to know exactly who's coming with those boats, whether they're all Syrians. So that turns out to be a little nuanced. The next nationality is the Malian, with almost 991 persons, of which 926 men. Mali is a country for which the degree of recognition is not so high. It is different for Eritrea, because there is a terrible dictatorship there. For Eritrea, there are 906 boat refugees, 588 of whom are men. The last country in the top seven is Nigeria, with 873 boat refugees. Ladies and gentlemen, the figures for April are, of course, not yet complete, but it is important to know that the share of boat refugees is mainly from Sub-Saharan Africa, but not so much from the Middle East and that this share is increasing even further. So the majority of boat refugees are people who are looking for a better life. They apply for asylum, but they are actually economic refugees. We see fewer Syrians. I'd like to give you those numbers. It is very important to always be clearly nuanced. I very much welcome the fact that refugee work in Flanders, Ciré and so on continues to repeat that the vast majority of refugees worldwide are being received by neighbouring countries. Either it is internal relocation within Syria or it is a matter of location in neighbouring countries: Turkey captures 1.7 million refugees, Lebanon 1.2 million, Jordan 625 000, even Iraq captures 250 000 Syrians and Egypt 136 000. It is very important to reiterate that the neighbouring countries are always the most affected by international conflicts. This is an important nuance that is often overlooked. I remember a nice graph that was shared on the social media last week. It is important to keep repeating that. However, I have often heard in recent weeks that the West would look the other way. Today, fortunately, it's all a bit more nuanced. The West doesn't look the other way, dear people. That's not right. Who takes care of the refugees? Some of the people are taken care of by family and friends. The situation in Lebanon is appalling. There are people who have virtually no reception facilities, but most of them are sheltered in refugee camps, developed by the United Nations, UNHCR in particular. You're all familiar with that. The United Nations is paid for more than 70%, financed and subsidised by the rich West, which is supposedly looking the other way. The European Union and the European Member States are the largest financiers, together with the United States, of UNHCR. We're gonna stay that way. In addition, the pledging conference on the reception of Syrian refugees on 15 March this year raised a total of more than EUR 4 billion. Of these, more than EUR 1 billion came from the European Union. We are by far the biggest donor. In the financing of UNHCR, moreover, I note that, outside Kuwait by 4%, there is no country that makes substantial efforts on oil dollars. That can also be said. A country like Saudi Arabia invests most in defence of all countries in the world. Take a look at his defense budget. That's hallucinating. Of course Saudi Arabia is defending its business in Yemen now, in its own way, so the country may need it, but there is no refugee camp. Last year Saudi Arabia received 60 to 70 asylum applications. Moreover, the country is not far from the conflict zone in the Middle East. It is also an important regional partner. There are a lot of countries in the Middle East that do a lot, such as Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey, but there are also a lot of countries that just don't give home. It is suggested that the rich West is looking away. However, when we look at the figures, a much more nuanced picture is noticeable. It is we who have been putting the most money on the table for years. I now come to the question of Greece. I have made it very clear from the outset and also last week on behalf of the entire government, and also on behalf of Prime Minister Michel and Minister Reynders, that there must be more intra-European solidarity in the area of reception of refugees' bed, bath and bread. That's right. We continue to argue in favour of this. However, this does not mean that there is no solidarity at the moment. Do you know that we are giving more than EUR 400 million to Greece? We are also giving almost EUR 600 million to Italy over the next five years, which is by far the largest. Those amounts have been committed. So there is a great deal of European funding going from the European Member States to those countries. So it is not true that there would be no solidarity. It can be much better, but there is already some solidarity. The budgets in this area have been increased. There is indeed an attempt to do so. In view of European solidarity, it remains a remarkable fact for me that, for example, our country received 2 705 asylum applications from Syrians in 2014, Italy 505 and Greece 785. In this sense, we must also look at this nuanced approach. A lot of people in those countries do illegal border crossing. They're crossing the border illegally. However, the pressure for asylum on our country is much higher. I'll give you some figures. They can be delivered to you. There are 0.9 asylum applications per 1 000 inhabitants in Greece, whereas we have 2.1 asylum applications in Greece. In Sweden, this is more than 8 and in Germany, 4.7. I'll give you the figures later, including Italy's. It is a fact that certain southern European countries are faced with a major problem, which we should not underestimate, but only for a few weeks. However, the effective reception, recognition and thus giving these people a new life also requires a very great social effort, especially at the beginning. Let us be honest about that. This is also demonstrated by a study by the Federal Migration Centre. It takes a lot of money to give these people a new life on a good level. I am thinking of education and training. In the beginning, the language must also be learned. It takes a great deal of effort. We're doing that effort for the rest of our lives. What is sometimes wrong between the two camps, if I may put it this way, on the one hand, the countries of Northern and Western Europe and, on the other hand, some of the countries of southern Europe, is quite incomprehensible. The southern European countries say that we are doing too little, that they had to pay Mare Nostrum out of their own pocket, because we never wanted to do so. Now we finally come to terms with EUR 9 million per month. I have already read EUR 9 million a year several times, but it is of course a month. We are therefore in favour of solidarity, but they do not think it is enough, because they have to save everything. That's right for a piece and I don't want to deny it. The Western and Northern European countries say that the southern European countries do not take fingerprints, which Dublin believes is mandatory. However, their governments have co-approved the Dublin Convention. In Greece Dublin is no longer used at all. We cannot even send people back to Greece who first applied for asylum in Greece and are later found here. That is the frustration of many European countries. If Dublin cannot be applied, then everything turns into soup, then the whole system gets stuck. Dublin is an essential pillar of the European asylum system. I made that clear in the last JHA Council. The conviction is already several years old. They've already had an action plan. Now they need a new action plan. In fact, very little progress has been made on the ground. This also leads to frustration, although it may be too heavy a term, or at least to discontent. It is very dramatic to say that there must be a disaster first. Even as mayor, they know that. In a street that has been identified as unsafe for years, an accident must first occur before politics sometimes enters into force. That's terrible to say. Now the drama was awfully big. Finally, we have talked about how we are going to organise this and how we are going to ensure that intra-European solidarity is fostered. I am pleased that this discussion has finally taken place and that measures have been taken. I shall then come to the measures themselves. I should like to clarify the points. On Monday 20 April, a European emergency summit was held in Luxembourg with the Ministers for the Interior and Foreign Affairs. Belgium was represented at this summit by Ministers Reynders and Jambon. At the summit, a ten-point action plan was presented which was discussed. On Thursday, 23 April, the Heads of Government discussed these points in order to arrive at a common approach. Seventeen concrete actions have been proposed around four main areas: strengthening our presence in the Mediterranean; combating smugglers; preventing irregular migration flows; and strengthening intra-European solidarity and responsibility. I will now summarize the conclusions and explain the most important points. With regard to the first measure, namely the strengthening of the Frontex operation called Triton, the budget for Operation Triton in the Mediterranean has been tripled. A monthly amount of $3 million had been foreseen from the start of the operation in November 2014. This amount has been increased to nine million per month. There has been EUR 6 million, but it has turned into EUR 9 million. The budget is the same for Operation Mare Nostrum. It is the European Union that will finance it, not the Italian State. Belgium will also make additional efforts to this end. We are prepared to provide additional staff to Frontex. I also have a list of Home Affairs about what we are all doing for Frontex, and that is quite impressive. I'm gonna go over this a little bit later. There are already two people active in 2015. This number can be doubled if Frontex asks for it. These staff members are used as so-called debriefers. They conduct interviews of migrants brought ashore. This information is used, among other things, to map smuggling networks. Secondly, the Minister of Defence wants to deploy the command and logistics support ship Godetia if necessary. Thirdly, there are already two situations where smugglers at sea have recaptured the smuggler boat armed after the rescue. This way they can use the boat again later. To prevent this, Defence is prepared to provide surveillance teams on board ships from other Member States. I come to the second measure: a military mission to destroy the smugglers. The options are being examined to set up a military operation that can proactively destroy the smugglers, preferably before use. The High Representative Mogherini has been instructed to prepare for such a mission. This may require a mandate from the UN Security Council. For this mission, too, Defence has indicated their willingness to take part in this mission. Of course, the legal and financial details still need to be worked out. There is, among other things, discussion about the mandate, whether or not it is from the UN. This is, of course, an important point. This is a point where we have successfully landed with Operation Atalanta. Given the geopolitical context in the world and the current conflicts, this will now be less evident. We have to be realistic about that. If we really want to land in Libya and destroy smugglers before they leave, I think there will have to be a mandate. Mrs Mogherini is currently investigating this. There is a diplomatic approach to this. We'll see how this ends. I believe that this will be clarified by the end of this week. The third measure is to map smuggling networks and put an end to impunity. International traffickers, various European agencies such as Frontex and Europol will intensify their collaboration in order to map the criminal organisations that smuggling networks coordinate and, if possible, prosecute them. Belgium is already playing a leading role in advocating an exchange of information between Frontex and Europol. Frontex has a lot of detailed information that Europol can use in the fight against trafficking. Countries such as Egypt, Tunisia and Niger play a crucial role in the whole issue. The European Union will therefore engage in dialogue with these countries, including to strengthen and extend existing EU missions for the training of border guards. We are thinking, for example, of the EUCAP mission in Niger, to which Belgium is making an important contribution. Fifthly, as regards capacity building for protection in North Africa, several projects will support the North African countries to provide protection for refugees on the ground. This element, too, must prevent people from stepping on life-threatening boats. Belgium will also participate in the Regional Protection and Development Programme for North Africa, RDPP. Belgium is one of three or four Member States which have confirmed its first participation in that project. We are thinking, among other things, of developing a solid and solid asylum system in Morocco. Mrs Smeyers has just asked how the visit to Morocco went. It was an official visit with Minister Jambon. Well, that point has been discussed there, among other things. Morocco itself, of course, also faces a very great challenge in terms of migration, because some of the immigrants who want to reach Europe are failing to do so and have been staying in Morocco for several years. For the first time Morocco has now carried out a regularisation operation, which has given illegal immigrants papers. That is one of the government's main lines. The Moroccan king is indeed very concerned about the situation, because the reception of asylum seekers is not under the best conditions; they are trying to improve it. The Moroccan authorities are very pleased and satisfied that we are participating in this asylum system and that we are helping to build expertise with our know-how, including the Commissioner-General, so that it can better deal with the challenges of migration. Sixthly, I come to the policy line to focus on return. An increasing proportion of boat refugees are economic refugees, usually from West Africa. Economic refugees are not eligible for asylum in any EU Member State. In other words, return is the only lasting solution for those people. We often see economic refugees disappearing into illegality upon arrival in Europe. This will be followed up by a much stronger commitment, in cooperation with Frontex, to a firm return policy for those who have no right to international protection. All available instruments will be used to improve the cooperation of the countries of origin with regard to return policy. The EU will also look at the commitment of development cooperation to ensure the smooth implementation of the re-admission policy. Mr De Croo communicated about it yesterday, with an additional EUR 20 million. I also have figures here on development cooperation in the region, because a question was asked on Thursday and I will come back to that later. Seventhly, responsibility and solidarity are important points. Measures have been introduced to achieve a more equal distribution of migratory pressure, which could ease the burden on the southern Member States. On the other hand, the southern Member States must assume their responsibilities and comply with existing EU legislation. They don't often do that now. On issues such as fingerprinting, providing for quality reception and the rapid handling of asylum applications, countries such as Italy and Greece are still failing. More solidarity from Western and Northern Europe is possible and negotiable, but can never be a carte blanche to avoid European obligations and responsibilities. In this context, there is, among other things, a European resettlement pilot project initiated by Austria under the name Save Lives a few years ago. In concrete terms, it will mean a commitment at EU level to a number of places rather than at national level, which will then be divided among the European Member States. For the implementation of all these measures, the Commission will come forward with an agenda before the end of this week, with a timeline until June. In June, the situation will then be discussed again and followed up at the European Summit. There will be both a European JHA Summit and a European summit of Heads of Government in June. What about the measures? There is no doubt that these measures are necessary, but we cannot have the illusion that they will solve the whole problem in the short term. That, I fear, is not possible: the refugee crisis in the Mediterranean region, in North Africa, in West Africa, in the Middle East is so great and there are so many other factors involved as climate warming, demographic growth, conflicts, the consequences of the Arab Spring, IS, which is not soluble overnight. The situation in Libya, Syria and Iraq is not such that it will be resolved in the short term and by that I mean in a few months' time. This also means that we are talking here about an action plan that will have to be unfolded for a long time. We must not turn a blind eye and expect today's crisis to be resolved tomorrow. International trafficking in human beings is organised crime and is worth EUR 40 billion a year, as explained in the motion for a resolution put to the vote next week in the European Parliament in Strasbourg. I think it is very important to always include the geopolitical and international context in that story. Mr De Croo has also stressed in recent days what we are doing in the area of development cooperation in that region. I thank Mr De Croo for the approach. It is important to include this in the debate. Since the start of the Syrian crisis, we have given Syria and the region EUR 20 million for humanitarian aid from 2011 to 2015: funding NGOs or multilateral organisations. At the third international donor conference for Syria in Kuwait on 31 March 2015, a new package of 20 million euros for 2015-2016 was announced. EUR 11 million for the financing of humanitarian flexible funds in Syria, Lebanon and Jordan. That's the Emergency Response Fund. EUR 3 million for addressing needs: reception, protection, food, water, sanitation, health care and education in Syria and neighbouring Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey. EUR 2 million to provide additional support to the International Committee of the Red Cross for the reception of Syrian refugees. This was mentioned yesterday in The Journal. The aid granted by the international community at the third international donor conference for Syria in Kuwait on 31 March amounts to EUR 3.8 billion, of which EUR 1 billion is provided by the EU. That still comes up on top of what we're doing. The EU gives a lot of money that comes from all the Member States, including our country. That has to be included. So a lot is happening. In addition, there are other points, but that would lead us too far. However, we are also working there. The conflict in Libya is also very important. We are trying to find a stable solution to the conflict in Libya. According to my information, the two parties are still in Rabat together. That's not bad in itself. They were already together when Mr. Jambon and I were in Rabat and they're still together. I am sure you have also read that these negotiations have been difficult. However, they are not hopeless. Having a new stable regime in Tripoli is extremely important. Our country is also diplomatically engaged in this. However, all this is not so obvious. We are also involved in the international coalition against IS. We take responsibility. We have achieved a number of successes. You sometimes read about this and a number of other things are not going so well. The commitment that was made at the time clearly stated that this would be a long-term operation. The conflict wouldn't have been resolved in one, two, three, against Daish. That is, of course, special, very complex. Finally, one thing about resettlement. There was some discussion about it and I got some questions about how that is right. At the very beginning of this legislature, as Secretary of State, I doubled the number for 2015, from 150 to 300 of which 225 Syrians and 75 people from mainly Congo and Burundi, the Great Lakes region. For the sake of clarity, this is not about boat refugees, it is people who have been in refugee camps for a long time, in a hopeless situation. It concerns, for example, single mothers with children, people with disabilities, people who are financially totally in the ground. So those aren't the boat refugees. The boat fugitives are mainly the ones we see now more and more West African men taking the trip. The resettlement project is currently under way and this number will be increased to 550 this year, including 475 Syrians and 75 people, as agreed, Congo and Burundi. That is decided and that is what we are doing... (...): What exactly is decided?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u2	We receive 550 people, namely 475 Syrians and 75 Congoleses and Burundians, i.e. 550 in total, the current 300 plus 250, only according to the resettlement programme. This is independent of the fact that we receive and also provide protection for people from Syria and Iraq in our asylum services every day, as I have already mentioned. The Commissioner for Refugees and the Stateless is also present here, giving 98 percent of those applicants protection. Those who do not receive protection are people who claim to be unjustly Syrian. Even those who have committed war crimes on one side or another in the conflict will not be protected. I do not think that anyone here in the Chamber thinks that we should protect those people. In this way, last year we gave 1 400 people protection. This year that number will be higher, because the Syrians are currently at the forefront of asylum statistics so far, and this year is almost four months away. So it seems that we will protect even more Syrians. So resettlement is not about people coming to Europe on their own, because it involves a selection with UNHCR on the basis of objective criteria. These people are being flown into Europe, they are being protected here and they are being given a new life. Mr President, many questions have also been asked about this and I would like to explain them before deciding. Questions have been asked about how that happens. Yesterday I visited such a location in Sint-Truiden, together with the mayor of Sint-Truiden. People arrive and stay for up to six weeks in an asylum center of ours, in an open asylum center of Fedasil or another reception partner. Afterwards, they move on to an OCMW. Every year a call is launched and I would like to repeat it. I hope that call will get through well with all the municipal and OCMW authorities in the country. I want to make a call. I'm launching a call to all the municipal and OCMW authorities to run to receive one or two more families. I have the list for 2015. Many municipalities show their hearts and their candidates. If we can add 250 more to the 300 now, that is quite a lot. Not every municipality that is a candidate is also selected. After all, there are quite a few criteria, which is obvious. So I'm making a warm call to run for office to receive one or two families. That can be looked at. In any case, a letter will be sent to all the municipal authorities to ask that question. After all, we want to achieve an increase in this kind of care. I will conclude with the question whether we are doing enough with that. Ladies and gentlemen, our country has a tradition of always showing its heart in international conflicts. In fact, that is largely separate from one or the other parties in a coalition. When we look at the past, the current government and the governments of the past 20 years, we have always done much more than the average for major humanitarian catastrophes and international conflicts. We will continue to do so and will continue to do so. That is why I am pleased that we have put the proposal on the table. We had hoped for a European agreement on the resettlement of ten thousand refugees. That agreement is not yet in place. The agreement was on the resettlement of 5,000 refugees. There was an internal discussion, but I will not bring it out. However, there is no agreement at the moment. The discussions on this matter are still ongoing. Despite the fact that there would be no agreement, we have promised that we will already provide those 250 additional shelters. We will initiate and start it now. Is that a small group? I think it's a substantial group. If we are aware that we received 75 Syrians last year, that we are moving to 475 resettlements in 2015 and that we will recognise a lot more Syrians this year compared to last year, then I believe that we have indeed stepped up our efforts considerably. I think this is good, too. I hope that support for this can be found in the Chamber by a broad majority. There are two more questions which I would like to address briefly. Mr Dewael and Mrs Lanjri had a question about the economic story. We must, of course, pay attention to these matters. The story of economic visas is about the blue card directive that is not really successful. We are talking about highly skilled knowledge workers, not about what we are talking about here, but not about boat refugees. Also, the work card story of the Länder is not immediately something that fits fully into this story. I believe that we should be careful to throw a lot of these things. We need to think about economic migration, but caution is needed for a special visa, the so-called smart card to speed up the entry of very low-skilled migrants. In this respect, I refer to the number of low-skilled people in our unemployment statistics in our country, yet one of the government's greatest challenges. We are now applying the principle of economic preference, whereby we first look at whether candidates are available in our own country. Then we look into the European Union and only afterwards we look outside the European Union. This principle is being applied by many European Member States, and I do not believe that this is an unhealthy principle. In fact, it seems to me a fairly logical principle. I know that there will certainly be questions about humanitarian visas. These visas are governed by Article 9 of the Aliens Act. This article has been and has been strictly applied by all governments over the past 20 years. That's right. Will the government propose to break the humanitarian visa? There is no agreement on this at the moment. I am not saying that there is a discussion, but this issue still needs to be discussed. I have asked my administration and the Commissioner-General to look at how other countries - Germany, France, Ireland and a few other countries - are doing that. I would like to put on the table one of the major points of discussion. If, as a number of countries have done, it is proposed that a maximum of 1 000, 1 500, 2 500 or 10 000 should be met over numbers, one can always discuss what will be done with the thousands first or tens of thousands first? Legally, that must be sufficiently firmly in place, so that we do not get annihilation of the Council for Aliens who claim that it is arbitrary and discriminatory and cannot be determined. If that were to happen and humanitarian visas are allowed for everyone on the basis of other criteria, that does not seem to me to be the intention. So the study work is in progress, no decision has yet been taken. Let me be clear: it is not in the coalition agreement that we will adopt a more flexible application of Article 9. In view of the international conflict and the fact that there was a clear question, even last week in the parliamentary debate from certain groups, we are investigating that. We were working on it before that, by the way. We will look into that thoroughly and make a decision, but I can tell you that we are not going ice in one night.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u3	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your comprehensive presentation and the answers that have already been given to a number of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, we have received a very clear and comprehensive debriefing. You have correctly addressed many aspects of the problem, for which I thank you. No group has the illusion that there is a miracle solution and that if we do something, the problem of war refugees would be solved. Of course, that is not the case. There are two things we can do. We can save the maximum lives of boat refugees in the Mediterranean, and we can accommodate maximum people from conflict zones, from wars. This can be done either permanently or temporarily. I would like to go into that in more detail. We do not have the illusion that we can solve everything or that Belgium must fully open its borders. That's not the point. In fact, I do not believe that any group wants that. But we must make a maximum effort, even if Europe does not want to participate, in terms of carrying capacity. In this context, Mr Secretary of State, I think you are far too quickly satisfied with what you are announcing here. You describe the blockade at European level and then you tell us what Belgium is doing. Actually, that's still bitterly little. Belgium is a rich country and we can do more. We cannot solve everything, and it is not a question of permanent residence, but of temporary reception of people from wars, and we are doing too little in this respect. That's absolutely what Green wants to charge. I would like to raise a number of points. Firstly, referring to the decision of the European Council of Ministers last Thursday, I would like to talk about saving people at sea. We call for a very active search for boat refugees, for drownings. Does this mean that all those rescued from the Mediterranean must be given asylum? No, because some of these people, as you rightly say, are war refugees, while others are economic refugees. According to the Geneva Convention, we do not grant asylum to economic refugees and we do not ask for that to be changed. Of course, anyone who wanders in the sea must be saved. It's about people's lives. A decision was taken to triple the budget of Operation Triton, under Frontex, to an amount of EUR 9 million per month. That budget is still below Mare Nostrum's budget. I hear people saying that we should not go too far in this, because then we will create a suction effect. Well, I would like to contradict that with all the force, because since the end of the extensive rescue operation at sea, Mare Nostrum, there are no fewer people who try to cross, on the contrary, there are more. The fact that this limited rescue operation would have a deterrent effect is therefore not correct, according to the figures. There is no suction if, for humanitarian reasons, we do our best to get everyone out of the sea. Then I have a question about the mandate of Frontex. The doubling of the budget remains within Frontex's mandate. Mr Secretary of State, will these rescue operations take place throughout the Mediterranean, right up to the coasts of North Africa? The mandate of Frontex says something else, in particular that one can go up to 30 miles from the Italian coast. It is therefore primarily about coastal surveillance, Europe's surveillance. According to international law, it is true that these ships have to respond to emergency calls. Then they can sail more than 30 miles. Mare Nostrum, the extensive rescue operation, was something completely different. They were actively looking for drownings, for boat refugees. Is this gonna happen here? From what I derive from your information, this is not the case. In that sense, this is too limited an answer. People die in the Mediterranean. We cannot accept this. This is not about giving asylum to the people we save there. That's something else entirely. A second point concerns the reception of boat refugees, but above all the reception of war refugees, people who, according to the Geneva Convention, can stay here. Indeed, the recognition rate for asylum at 98% is very high. At the same time, you must admit that it is very cynical to wait here in Brussels and see what people can reach our country along these immensely dangerous escape routes to give them asylum when they arrive in one piece. That's a very perfide, cynical way of thinking. When it comes to wars, we must better accommodate people from these war zones in refugee camps on the ground, on the one hand, but also, in part, actively bring them here, on the other. That's what happens through the resettlement. That could be permanent or temporary. Let us talk about that. Resettlement has the great advantage of alleviating the pressure on refugee camps in the region. The figures are given here. There are 1.7 million people in Turkey and 1.2 million in Lebanon. Those are immense numbers. We are talking here about 550 resettlements of refugees, nothing even a drop on a hot plate. It is particularly regrettable that no agreement was reached in the European Union. The European Commission has, however, initiated the process. The European Commission proposed 5 000 resettlements on Monday. On Thursday, the Council of Ministers, the final decision-making body in Europe, said that there was no specific figure. That's very unfortunate. This immediately leads us to the question of whether Belgium will be deterred by this. Do we accept that we in Europe do not even agree on 5 000 people or will we do more in proportion? For the time being I hear people stop at 550 refugees or resettlements. Well, that's not enough. Our proposal is to double the number of permanent resettlements, on the one hand. On the other hand, we need temporary care. Our country doesn't catch war refugees temporarily. That is a great pity, because there are opportunities in this area. I would like to talk about humanitarian visas. In Germany, as a result of the conflict in Syria, it has been decided to do something about such temporary reception. By the end of 2013, 10 000 Syrian refugees were announced to be temporarily received until the situation in their own country has stabilised. Of course, that could take a long time. It could be in a couple of years, five or six maybe. Many war refugees from Syria can then be caught in Europe. A large number of them want to return effectively to the country of origin, once the situation has stabilised there. We propose that 3 000 temporary reception places should be set up, as Germany has done. In fact, we want to think straight away about the reception of these refugees. At present, Fedasil's reception capacity is not fully exploited. There are about 2 500 free places. This could be a first opportunity for those refugees, who could later be spread across our country. All cities and municipalities must assume their responsibilities. My party will already screen which city councils and OCMW councils fail and refuse to take their responsibility in the light of our country's efforts and which, in our opinion, are already too limited. So let us not stop ourselves by European Member States, which, with a great deal of aplomb, keep a minute's silence, but also want to do coastal surveillance and not accept asylum seekers. Specifically with regard to humanitarian visas, we are proposing a kind of humanitarian gateway. I have already referred to Germany. At the time of the refugee crisis in Kosovo, our country also provided temporary reception for refugees. You will recognise that the problem with humanitarian visas today is that a humanitarian visa is not a right, but a favour. The Foreign Affairs Department decides, pursuant to Article 9 of the Aliens Act, whether the visa is granted. In practice, it is applied very little. For the first half of 2013, there are only 55 humanitarian visas. There is now in particular a request from Syrians for a humanitarian visa, especially for family members who cannot come to Belgium as part of family reunification. They will then try to find a solution through such a humanitarian visa. A few groups of the majority have just called for efforts to be made. We must also take a step in the matter of temporary reception of refugees. I have heard a certain openness, Mr Secretary of State. You want to investigate the more extensive application of humanitarian visas. Until today, we do not see any results of this. You'll examine it carefully. That's good, but it's urgent. After all, we all know that it will take time for something like this to happen, while the conflict in Syria and Iraq continues to be fierce. One final point concerns development cooperation and conflict prevention. You mention here an amount of EUR 20 million, granted by our country at a donor conference at the end of March. However, I would like to outline the broader framework. In fact, your policy is based on flaming politics. We have seriously reduced the budget for development cooperation at the beginning of this year. At the end of this parliamentary term in 2019, the budget for development cooperation will amount to 0.38% of our GNI, while we should legally reach 0.7 %. 0.38 percent is the lowest level in 17 years. When did you cut the budget? You did that at a time when you knew very well that there is a great deal going on in the world, that there are problems in black Africa, that there are problems with the least developed countries and that there are refugee flows from those countries to our country. Despite this, you have significantly reduced the budget for development cooperation. As far as conflict prevention is concerned, the figures are there. From EUR 17 million in 2014, we fell back to EUR 5 million in 2015, at a time of conflict in Syria. That is the least one can say. And in that full awareness, you have decided to decimate that budget to EUR 5 million. The EUR 20 million awarded by Alexander De Croo on 31 March is a package for 2015 and 2016. A few days ago, we saw a euphoric press release from the Minister saying that support is going to the Red Cross. It is to the credit of the Secretary of State that he clearly explains that this support to the Red Cross fits within the EUR 20 million package, which had already been agreed at the end of March. The financial aid to the Red Cross from Alexander De Croo's press release is therefore not additional support. It is 20 million euros in two years' time. Colleagues, what expenditure does our country spend to bomb Iraq? That is EUR 10-15 million per month, but EUR 20 million for development cooperation and the refugee crisis in Syria in two years. Do we consider the bombings in Iraq to be more important than the 1.7 million refugees currently in Turkey or the 1.2 million refugees currently in Lebanon? Apparently so. So that 20 million euros is undersized, it's a shell. (Protests from the majority) That is correct. Apparently, we think it is more important to walk with NATO because of the credibility of our country. That is the argument that we always hear from the government. We spend 10 to 15 million euros a month on this. However, when it comes to the conflict there on the ground, the refugees and the misery that we see there, we are talking about EUR 20 million in two years, for 2015 and 2016. Mr President, I will conclude with a reference to the statement by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Antonio Guterres. He strongly criticizes the European approach and says that it is purely minimalism, that it is doing far too little. I can only endorse that criticism of the United Nations. You have just shown, with all the power, that we are doing a lot, that we are doing enough. I don't think that's right. Belgium is doing something. We have made a number of efforts, for example by increasing the number of resettlements in response. I have also heard that in the Council of Justice and Home Affairs you have called for more European cooperation, the distribution plan and so on. However, let us not let the weak European Union, which is looking the other way, stop us from doing more ourselves. I think I have sufficiently demonstrated that this is not the case today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u5	Mr President, contrary to what my colleague from the N-VA said, the PS is in the room. Maybe she didn't see me? I thank the Secretary of State for his fairly comprehensive and concrete explanations. I would like to return to the fight against the channels. In concrete terms, what are we going to do? I have the feeling that there is some kind of logic for outsourcing and postponing the problem to the countries in which the smugglers are located. I have the impression that we are not so much involved in this important issue! What are we doing today for the victims we're fishing for? What is the care? I would like to know more specifically what is happening today. Mr Secretary of State, perhaps you saw this report on television a few days ago, in which a journalist pretends to be a candidate for asylum. He goes on Facebook, he finds websites, he finds phone numbers of smugglers, he finds pictures of boats. He telephones and gets the information and prices to be able to leave on these really very dangerous nutshells. We are talking about amounts ranging from 1 500 to 2 000 euros for people who have serious economic and financial difficulties. I find this scandalous: for half an hour of boating, they are asked for 1,500 or 2,000 euros! It's huge! Is it possible to consider better collaboration to combat the promotion of these shuttles on the net? Couldn't we play a part in it? I agree with Mrs Lanjri's remarks because, in the fight against networks, it also means taking into account legal migration, which works and which is accessible to candidates. It always existed. You speak of tradition and you say that, whatever the party, the great traditions of our country are respected. This legal migration is a tradition that I believe it is important to respect. I would like to refer to the European Frontex Agency. Didier Reynders believes that there is a lack of democratic control of Frontex, given the financial resources granted to it. We should take an initiative to demand better democratic control of this agency. Finally, we will welcome about 500 people out of the quota of the 5,000 globally negotiated for Europe. This is not bad for Belgium because it represents 10% of the 5,000 refugees. But is this quota of 5,000 sufficient? That is the real question!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u6	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, as I mentioned last week, I agree with what you said. Indeed, this tragedy in the Mediterranean is caused by very complex causes. Tackling these causes is also very complex. After all, there is no miracle solution. There is certainly no solution, with which Belgium could only address the problem. I have used the words "we must not look away" as well. This simply means that, of course, we must do a great deal at European level and we must insist very much, whatever Belgium has done, on solidarity, on the approach and on increasing the resettlement rate from 5 000 to 10 000. We also need to look at what we can do ourselves. After all, Europe is us. Europe is all Member States individually. If every country hides behind Europe, there will be no European policy. In that sense, it is an en-en-story for me. A dozen measures were agreed at the European Summit. Above all, we must ensure that they are implemented. A lot of people, including myself, and a lot of organisations, including our own government, are partly disappointed because a number of things have not been agreed. I am talking, among other things, about the resettlement rate of 5 000 people, which was already a drop on a hot plate. Our country has even proposed to increase that figure to 10 000 people, which we have not succeeded in achieving. However, we must insist on this, because that is really necessary. We had already decided in 2014 to bring the number of refugees we are taking out of the refugee camps and relocating here to 150. At the end of 2014, we decided to increase that figure to 300, which is already doubling. Now, because of the current crisis, we are increasing that figure by 250, which is good. That's definitely important. Many mayors, cities and municipalities can count on solidarity. I have here a mayor next to me, Veerle Heeren, who has assumed her responsibility as mayor of no major city, and has provided for the resettlement of refugees. She was willing to join the pilot project of resettlement for refugees. That should be an example for many of our mayors, to do so everywhere. The 250, it's a good thing we're doing that, but we can do more. Our country must be prepared to do more, but also at European level we must insist that all countries assume their responsibilities. When I look at the figures, I see that Belgium is certainly not doing badly. I'll take the figures from 2010 to 2014. We capture 8.3 people per thousand inhabitants. Sweden does much more: it captures 24 people per thousand inhabitants. When you see the figure for Germany, it is 5.3 per thousand inhabitants. Other countries that are also struggling, such as Malta, also receive 17.5 people per thousand inhabitants. The report for Belgium is certainly not bad, but in a crisis one must be humane, one must be human, one must look for human solutions and wonder what can be done, do it and set an example. I would very much like us, as at the time and still in the field of trafficking in human beings in which we were the great example for the rest of Europe, to do so now in this crisis and to accept our responsibility. This applies both to resolution and to the other way we can follow: giving humanitarian visas. When I talk about giving humanitarian visas, I am talking very specifically about people who ask for visas, who are not asylum seekers and who do not get here in a legal way. The question is how to bring these people here in a safe and legal way, for example when they have family here. Let me give you an example. Two sons who are recognised here as refugees and who have an income cannot let their mother happen because that mother is an adult and cannot be transferred to adult ascendants, mothers or grandmothers in the context of family reunification. I am not asking for the law on family reunification to be opened up. However, we are talking about a crisis situation, about people who cannot escape the war and the violence there because everything is closed there. We then have the responsibility to support these people, especially when we see that they can be taken care of by their own families here in Belgium. Mr Secretary of State, you say that you want to look at the path of humanitarian visas, that you are doing so and that you want to see how it is to be dealt with. You will also check how other countries have done it. It is urgent, and I think that we need to follow the road of Article 9a in the short term, but we must not close the regularisation road. Maybe that's a piste that's ultimately the best, even in the long run, maybe not, maybe there are better alternatives. I understand your observation of what should happen to the 1001th. You might as well ask that question to countries like Germany, because Germany has done so with a quota. It doesn't have to be quota for me, as long as we work humanitarianly. Article 9a is just for humanitarian regularisation, so let us use it. For me this does not have to be worked out to the point, but now there is a crisis, now we have to respond to it. It is true that it is not in the coalition agreement, but that this crisis was going to take on such a large scale, we did not foresee it either. The issues on which we agree can also be carried out. I notice that our coalition partner Open Vld has already argued in favour of this or is already investigating it. I hope that in the short term, perhaps next month, we will be able to discuss in committee how we can achieve the humanitarian visa, because it is about distressing situations. I mentioned an example, but there are many others. I believe that we must accept our responsibility. Indeed, it remains important to continue working on the trafficking of human beings. First of all, it is about working on the causes themselves, i.e. tackling the conflicts, and working on the root causes of poverty, i.e. development cooperation. Mr De Vriendt, the discussions on these budgets are still ongoing, and that is why I mentioned this last Thursday. We must do everything we can to keep the budgets as intact as possible. We can't go any further downhill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u7	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u8	Those discussions are still ongoing and I have just mentioned this because our group does not wish to interfere with those budgets. So now these discussions are taking place. In the government we will also defend our position further. Finally, at the summit on 4 March, Europe really talked about legal migration and it was about the system of blue cards. Perhaps in the meantime that has been affected by the problems of the boat refugees. However, it was decided to talk about legal migration and the system of blue cards, because they are not linked to certain competences, but to certain incomes. I wonder whether this has already been discussed, or whether it has been moved to another summit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u9	Mr De Vriendt, you are right: it is a tragedy and it is impossible for one person to die in the Mediterranean while fleeing war, conflict and terror. I share your view that that is not possible. It's drama. It's drama. Ideally, we'll resettle all those refugees. I agree with you on that. I do not think that anyone's ideal is in line with the idea that we should be able to resettle them all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u10	That's not what I asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u11	No, you didn't. You asked for more effort. Greater efforts must therefore be made for everyone in the European Union. I do not think that we should minimize our efforts, however minimal they may be, and not downsize them. I am convinced and I know that the Secretary of State believes that there should be more resettlement within Europe. It is a pity that no number could be recorded at the summit, but the 550 people we will now be bringing to our country through resettlement are already 550 people who should not cross the border. That seems peanuts when people see how many thousands of people are fleeing, but in the end we remain a small player in the EU and the UN. I really believe that we should not downsize our financial and humanitarian efforts through resettlement. We bring 550 people to our country through resettlement. A call to cities and OCMWs will rightly be made to make additional efforts. I am glad to hear you say that everyone will be reminded of their responsibilities. All OMCWs across Belgium will therefore be held accountable. So please give this a chance. Also, do not use flash-flame policy by saying that the number of 550 must be doubled or tripled. Mr Secretary of State, I hope that the resettlement of those 550 people will succeed. Then we can make an evaluation. Mr De Vriendt, there is a buffer capacity at Fedasil for national reception. I would be sorry if you could fill in that buffer capacity with that resettlement. You don't know what we stand for. That's a flare on the other side. It would not be a good policy to suddenly be blind to all possible conflicts that are still coming to us in the next few months and years. The federal government's decision to call in a buffer is based on historical drama events that we have experienced in recent years with the reception crisis in our country. I fear that our idealism runs into a certain realism. I have confidence in the Secretary of State that the efforts we are making at national level are good, that this will be evaluated and that this will be extended where possible. However, our voice in Europe remains very important, in the sense that all Member States should be called upon to make the same efforts. The rich West, as has been said, which is already making efforts, still has to look in its own country and, where possible, expand aid. You have not gone into this again, Mr Secretary of State, but we will certainly have the opportunity to explain our policy on economic migration, at national level, but Europe also has a responsibility: to discourage economic refugees from using the asylum procedure and at the same time to use it to facilitate economic migration. That could also be part of the solution, so that the people who do not cross the border become aware of it and have the opportunity to do it in a different way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u12	Firstly, I will not repeat everything Mr De Vriendt said, but I have seen that Mare Nostrum has had a deterrent, including for smugglers, who knew very well that an action was taking place and that there was control in the Mediterranean. As a result of its disappearance, a free market for smugglers was created. There is often talk of a suction effect, but one must also look at the dissuasive effect. Secondly, Ban Ki-moon, the Secretary-General of the United Nations has also warned against the intention to proactively destroy or isolate ships that could possibly be deployed by smugglers; we must also ensure that the Libyan economy, which is already very shaky, is not destroyed. One of the most important economic activities left is fisheries. So it's not going to be an easy diplomatic exercise. Thirdly, there is indeed no miracle solution. The European Union, all of us together as Member States, must draw up a policy. However, sometimes I feel that we are trying to drown the fish, in the sense that we constantly point to the other: he or she does nothing, what we do, is therefore a lot. I believe that Belgium, also historically, with the role that we have often played, should take on the tractor role in order to ensure that migration policy is drawn up in such a way and that we set a good example. So, initially, this 10 000 is the minimum limit that we must be able to achieve, as the European Union, with all the European Member States. I am speaking on my own behalf, but I think that the discussion on temporary reception and on humanitarian decisions that are temporary is a difficult one. If that takes six or seven years, I have questions about temporaryity. We know that this will be discussed again, but for the sake of clarity, I do not want to avoid that discussion. Finally, I would like to thank you for your comprehensive and open explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u13	Mr President, may I ask another practical question? However, we would like to ask for the comprehensive report. This is obviously not technically possible, for which we understand, but some interesting data have been passed on. Perhaps it is possible to get some of the answers, or as much information as possible, on paper? Maybe we can get a summary?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u14	Can the answers given by the Secretary of State be given with the figures as an annex?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u15	Of the second part, on the Council's debriefing last week, an integral report is possible, as questions were linked to it. For the first part, on the March Council, there will be a report. That can therefore be requested, but it will not be an integral report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u16	Mr Secretary of State, in order to avoid misunderstandings afterwards, I did not quite understand what you meant by: Greece must then draw its conclusions? I don't want there to be any discussion afterwards. I'd like to know exactly what you meant by that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u17	A number of specific and specific questions have been asked about the second part. I am sure that the Secretary of State will be able to reply to it in a precise, concrete and probably concise manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u18	Mr President, I will answer that last question first. Did I plead for a Grexit here? Not at all. I have expressed my concerns and I am reporting on the concerns I have expressed on behalf of the government because we are no longer able to use the Dublin procedure. You should not forget that the infringement procedure with which it all started was about a Belgian case. The judgment of the European Court of Justice has ensured that the Dublin procedure is no longer possible. In practice, this leads to a lot of problems, not only with us but also in France, the Netherlands, and a number of other Western European countries. I have also regretted the lack of progress and the fact that the closed centres are now being opened up. The fact that there is no alternative is not in itself a solution either, because of course we have to offer something. It is an international obligation to bed, bath and bread. That too is not or hardly being done, despite the fact that we are putting a lot of money on the table to help them. In that context, I said that one should choose or share. Being a member of the Schengen area implies this. Romania and Bulgaria are not members of the Schengen area, but they are members of the European Union. It is not because one is a member of the European Union that one must also be a member of the Schengen area. I have made it clear that the application of the Dublin Treaty is the basic pillar of everything. You may know a solution to this, but my mind is far too small for that. If Member States of the Schengen area no longer apply the Dublin Convention, how can we ever develop a European asylum system? I think it contradicts each other. I have argued in favour of making progress. I have not yet gone into the replies, because no one has asked me a question about them. Perhaps we can discuss this at some other time. It was an animated debate. I was not alone in making my position clear either. What I said was not shocking or competing, my point of view has been formulated by many fellow Members of this House for a long time. It is always being asked to take that great step forward at last and to keep your borders under control. Frontex also comes to their aid, but it's never enough, because it doesn't seem to work. As long as they do not re-introduce the Dublin Agreement, there is a very fundamental problem for European asylum policy. So I did not say at all that these countries should be thrown out of the Schengen area. I did point out, however, that there is now a second action plan. Condemned already in 2010 and progress in five years is very limited. So I've been wondering if something will finally come of it. The Secretary of State has said that they really want to make migration a priority. I did not follow the election campaign closely, but migration was apparently a theme in that campaign. The majority parties have taken very clear positions on this issue. The Secretary of State has pointed out that the Greek commitment is very clear. It agrees that the Dublin system should be applied. That is why the closed centres will be opened up so that the recovery can be carried out gradually. I've taken note of that. I also referred to the statements made by her colleague, the Minister of Defence. The Minister said that without European funds, the gates will be opened so that Europe will be flooded with millions of refugees. A number of fellow Members have asked her to make that statement. She publicly distanced herself from the Secretary of Defense. Let us follow that up. She'll come up with a follow-up report every month. We'll keep playing the ball for a while. It's necessary. That is our responsibility. We support Greece and we support its solidarity, but we must now finally find a solution and re-introduce the Dublin system, otherwise it will not be right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u19	I hope that the government will be as strict in the discussion on posting and social dumping, because that is a very similar problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u20	We have talked about this before. That is not at the heart of the matter. You know my opinion on the directive on this subject. We won't be talking about that right now. I would like to answer a number of questions. Mr De Vriendt, the international protection lines of the extended Triton mission have not yet been established. That has yet to be done. They're working on that right now. It is still necessary, among other things, to determine how far along the coastline, how far around the European borders there is patrolling. However, I would like to make the following very clear, so that it is clear once and for all. Triton isn't just a border patrol mission. Of course border surveillance is an important task for every Frontex mission. That doesn't mean there's no room for rescue operations. From the beginning of the Triton mission, a clear component search and rescue has been included in the mandate. Furthermore, in 2013, the European Union adopted a regulation laying down the responsibilities for search and rescue in the framework of common Frontex operations. Our country played a key role in the negotiations and made sure that the obligation to search and rescue, as well as the definition of a safe place of evacuation, was included in European legislation for the first time in history. It is therefore clear that it is wrong to say that rescue operations are being carried out with the Triton mission. It was, and it will be now. Rescue operations are an integral part of Operation Triton's mission package. You have to be careful not to confuse things. The Geneva Convention says that countries that have signed them must provide protection in international conflicts, threats, etc. You know the criteria. The people we're relocating have been brought to safety. Do they have comfort, do they have it easy? No, but they were brought to safety. They are in a country that has signed the Geneva Convention and at that time they are no longer directly threatened. I've been to a shelter camp in Serbia. Last year 11 000 people were received there, of which only 6 applied for asylum in Serbia. People don't just want protection, they want protection in a prosperous country. From an individual perspective, I understand that. I might do the same myself. After all, there are more opportunities for a job and the new life may look better. There is therefore a certain social safety net, and so on, to get there. However, that is not the essence of the Geneva Convention. You can't confuse these things. That is not the essence of the Geneva Convention. The Geneva Convention does not impose an obligation to receive real refugees all in rich countries. The Geneva Convention does not say that. We must always be careful to say that this is our duty. Our duty is to protect people entering our territory. So do we. You say it's cynical to look away and only offer protection. Anyone who's taken a deadly trip may be... that's the idea. The Geneva Convention explicitly refers to the protection of people on the territory of a country. The fact that the territory of our country is the territory of our country and that Belgium is geographically located where it is located is a fact. It is very important that you know that we respect the Geneva Convention for 100 000 %. If we want to do more and work on resettlement and humanitarian visas in the future, that is a policy that goes a lot further than what the Geneva Convention basically means. That can also be said. In the first three months of 2014 there were 267 requests from Syrians. The first three months of 2015 were 471 applications. That is a very significant increase. I didn't calculate the percentage, but it's almost double in one year. This proves once again that, apart from what we are doing about resettlement, we are showing our hearts and doing a lot for Syrian refugees. You're also proposing temporary care. Temporarily, of course, is particularly relative. We have already discussed it in private before the sitting. Temporary reception means that someone who comes here temporarily applies for a humanitarian visa and asylum, who also gets asylum and thus gets a permanent right of residence. Then the gateway to social security also opens. It is another discussion as to whether that is bad, and we will not have it now, but it is a fact. In that sense, temporary is always relative. Imagine that the conflict in Syria will last another five years. People are being sent here now, who have to be returned after five years, because the conflict has been resolved. That may not be the best solution either. Choosing resolution is at least clear. In that case, it is clear that the refugees are allowed to settle and start a new life. It is not temporary, with the risk that they may have to return in a year's time. That is not a question of fish or meat. So the principle may sound good, but one also has to look at the effects on the ground. Temporary is de facto very often permanent. That's another thing to say. You speak of 2 000 places, because there are 2 000 places free in the Fedasil centres. Please be careful. We come from an asylum crisis in which people had to sleep on a bench overnight and single mothers with children had to spend the night in Brussels-North. That station closes at 1 a.m. at night, so they had no place to stay. That situation was degrading. We had that debate at the time. Each party said it couldn't and it had to stop. It was irresponsible. A human, civilized country doesn't do that. We must, of course, be careful that we do not, by means of a well-intentioned initiative, complete the reception process in a manner of speaking. For example, when there is a sudden increase in the inflow during the next summer, we are directly in front of the block. Be careful with that. It is not because there is now an 80% capacity utilisation rate that we have to fill the remaining 20% with refugees with humanitarian visas. I predict that such an attitude will not end well if necessary. That's what I predict to you. That's what I'm putting on a magazine, which I'm not saying we shouldn't do anything about. The number of 3 000 seems a lot to me personally at the moment. You are talking about humanitarian visas. Those visas are not a right. They are a kind of favor scheme, which is defined in Article 9 and not in Article 9a. That's right. They should not become justice either. Hopefully we can agree that in certain criteria we can discuss certain groups, such as refugees who have been in Belgium for a number of years, such as Syrian Belgians and Belgian Syrians, who have been here for a long time and about which stories can be heard that their mother or brother or so are still staying in Aleppo in a home. We can talk about such stories. We must be careful, however, when it is concreted in a law. We have an administrative court with the RVV which is very keen on this problem. When we take such a decision, we must ensure that we implement it properly and humanely. We must also ensure that there is no destruction and ultimately we end up at a point where everyone agrees that it was not the intention. So we have to be careful. So we are working on the dossier and we will consider it further. There's gonna be a lot of writing and talking about it. We shall also come to Parliament with the matter. I think there are possibilities. However, in the 2011 family reunification law, we did not close the gate of the ascendants or antecedents by a very large majority, so that we could now reopen them by means of a back gate. We can't do that. There is, of course, a separate category of certain refugees and vulnerable groups. That's another matter. I know. However, I am struggling with this problem. I have thought about this and I have come to the conclusion that we must be careful with this background or ascension regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u21	Mr Thiébaut, thank you for your statement. You asked me how Belgium and the European Union intend to act against traffickers and smugglers. Firstly, it is necessary to conclude a cooperation agreement between Frontex and Europol. We have discussed this several times in this committee. This may seem a little cynical, but I hope that with this tragedy we will quickly get this cooperation agreement. Both Europol and Frontex have a lot of information, which they need to exchange. Secondly, Belgium is one of the 13 Member States of the European Union to participate in the new Europol operation, called JOT MARE, which consists of a collaboration between this body and Interpol in order to search for traffickers and smugglers. This mission is primarily the responsibility of the federal police, and therefore of Mr. Jambon. Third, I watched the report you mentioned. We discussed this within the government a week ago. The priority is to attack websites that provide information too easily to traffickers and smugglers. Fourthly, it is important to gather even more information on the financial flows of smugglers. It's not always very obvious. The aim is to better identify the financial flows of smugglers and freeze their assets. As we also said about the war against Daesh, this task is extremely difficult. We must be realistic, and therefore I do not want to make any promises in this regard. In any case, there are possibilities. Fifthly, you should know that the European Union intends to organise a prevention campaign in Niger, which is a hub for trafficking to Libya. Furthermore, with regard to the destruction of vessels, it is necessary to have a mandate from the United Nations Security Council. But the geopolitical situation in the world, for the time being, and the extremely difficult relations with Russia due to the Crimea and Ukraine issues make things difficult. Indeed, it is not inconceivable that this country should veto it. Still, diplomatic contacts are under way. I have dealt with most of the points, but of course I am always at Parliament's disposal. The questions could not be addressed, but the debate could continue. Mrs De Coninck, I take note of your intervention. I do believe that we have a tradition in this area, and we certainly must maintain it. So we have to find solutions in one way or another that meet our duty in a balanced way, our moral duty if you want, because in the end all this is not mandatory for international protection. We must accept our responsibility, but we must also bear witness to realism and a sense of reality. There is a huge responsibility for African and Central Eastern Heads of Government. Some of them do a lot, sometimes indirectly and unintentionally, but they do. After all, some countries are flooded with refugees in such a way that they have to intervene. Other countries refuse to do anything and prefer to fight wars in their backyard. It's a shared responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u22	Mr Secretary of State, very punctual, the following. First of all, you said that Triton can and will carry out rescue operations. That's right, I never said otherwise. Only the mandate of Frontex limits us to 30 miles. In the case of emergency calls, it is possible to leave. Mare Nostrum worked completely differently, in the sense that they actively looked for drownings. You said that the 30-mile zone could possibly be extended so that we could move on to another arrangement. That would be good news. My point is demonstrated, in particular that the rescue operations are not Triton's core task. At the last European meeting, we missed the opportunity to make this the core task, as in Mare Nostrum's logic. Secondly, the Geneva Convention will only follow on its own territory. I never said that the Geneva Convention would not be followed in Belgium. I will stick to the point that it is cynical to see who gets here, in the current context, with current reality and refugee flows. In other words, the Geneva Convention is not enough; we need to do more, and that leads us to the debate on resettlement and temporary reception. Thirdly, temporary reception and humanitarian visas. Two groups of the majority are asking for this to be done, to apply it more and to extend it more. It is not asked to anchor that in the law and to make it a right. That's not our question either. However, you are only asking many questions, even though you say that the government will discuss this at the same time. I think this is difficult to read. I do not have the impression that the N-VA is a strong supporter of humanitarian visas.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u23	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u24	You're not enthusiastically in favour of that piste. We'll see what comes of it. I simply note that this is not a policy today, which it could have been. I'm just establishing that. You are right to ask whether temporary reception will not result in permanent asylum or permanent residence. In Germany, it has been possible to stay in temporary care. There are 10 000 people there. It is a piste that we are giving you, to see how we can effectively limit it to temporary care. We are talking about 10 000 people, but quite a great effort. Our proposal is to take up 3 000 people temporarily. It's the slope of Fedasil. It's just for inspiration, but let's take a look at that. You say that you do not want to fill the buffer capacity with the temporary reception of 3 000 people. I can understand that. We need to look at that. On the other hand, of course, you have also saved on that reception capacity. Maybe that wasn't the most sensible decision. Finally, you did not address my point about development cooperation, conflict prevention and the relativity of that EUR 20 million by Alexander De Croo. I believe, however, that the facts and the comparison speak for themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u25	Mr De Vriendt, although we are both on the same committee at the moment, I seem to hear something different from what you hear. I must say that I am actually very pleased with the reply of the Secretary of State on humanitarian visas. He mentioned it, by the way. That was something that was not really used in the past, not by the previous government, not by the government before. Now it's really just about a few dozen people.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u26	It's about 55 people.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u27	Yeah, a few dozen people. No one's questioning those numbers. It could even be a little more or a little less. It's not about a lot of people. A question came up last week, both from Open Vld and from us to investigate that slope. We find that the Secretary of State was actually already investigating that piste and that he says that we can look at this further. We can go that way, but we have to be careful. We also need to see that we are offering the right solution. I think that's very correct. I would prefer to see refugees who really need it re-established. If that's 500 this year and 200 next year, so be it. That's the most humane approach. We need to look at this case on a case-by-case basis and provide an answer. Previous governments have never, or hardly ever, put any effort on that. Let us work with that thought trail. And then maybe it's better not to work with quotas. After all, at some point we are talking about more applications than allowing quotas, and that would not be good. One really needs to look at it, but in a humane and correct way. That must be our policy. Mr De Vriendt also referred to temporary reception visas. But he would be the first to be expelled from the country that cannot and that is inhumane. I don't blame him. Not only the Geneva Convention offers opportunities, but also the system of subsidiary protection. So a temporary solution for refugees from a war conflict already exists. In principle, subsidiary protection is temporary, but, unfortunately, since conflicts are not resolved in six months or one year and often last three, four, five, six years, refugees coming to our country through the subsidiary protection system will stay here. That is right, because we will not send back their children, who go to school here, settled and integrated here. We will always have to test how people we might send back after a certain period are locally anchored here. One cannot send back people who have been here for four or five years. There are also the additional possibilities for resettlement, which we say Belgium should set a good example. We doubled that number last year and we repeat it this year. I certainly understand the question of doing so at European level, since it is a European programme. In addition, there is the path of humanitarian visas, of which Europe leaves the practical content to the Member States themselves. That's what I asked and I hear the Secretary of State is willing to use that piste in the best possible way. I think we can only welcome that. Apparently, the Secretary of State was already doing a piece on what we asked for last week. We look forward to continuing that track.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u28	Mr De Vriendt, I must say that I have enjoyed your explanation very much, but I am sorry that you are making some kind of intention process at the end. I have seen this before, but members of the parties who are normally strong in this respect are simply not even present today. I'll take note of that, too. At the very least, it is to your credit that you are present when the debate is about the substance of the matter and if there is no need to put on a show in the media. It is yet another time that I find that these parties are not present in committee when it comes to content. That was just a comment aside.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u29	Mrs. Lanjri, you're messing things up. The subsidiary protection is a right that is claimed here. However, the discussion we have been having here all along is about bringing people from refugee camps here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u30	Mr De Vriendt, I know what I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u31	Allow me to speak. We have not really talked so much about asylum, the Geneva Convention and subsidiary protection. The challenge lies in how we relieve the pressure on the refugee camps in that region. Resettlement, a permanent solution, is one solution. We call for the examination of a second track, namely temporary reception, the temporary removal of refugees from that region. I referred to Germany, where it works very well, and it continues to be a temporary one. We ask you to examine the slope we offer. Are humanitarian visas the best means of achieving this? On the one hand, you are questioning temporary reception, but humanitarian visas are also, in principle, temporary. So I don't know if humanitarian visas are the best way. Germany opts for a different solution. I suggest we look into that, take a closer look at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u32	Mr De Vriendt, I have just put things in order, just not to throw everything into a pile. Indeed, the refugees who get here can ask for asylum or subsidiary protection. In addition, we can relieve the pressure on refugee camps, either in the countries of origin or in the safe region. For example, we are bringing people from the Great Lakes region, Italy and Greece, but also directly from Syria. There are other possibilities for these people, namely resettlement or humanitarian visas. When it comes to refugees, they also have the right to protection. That's not temporary. When people flee a conflict, it can be assumed that the conflict is temporary. However, practice teaches us that these conflicts take a very long time. I ask you to use a human approach in this. We cannot send people back, even if they come through humanitarian visas. Suppose a mother with her two sons who have been recognized as refugees gets to Belgium and the conflict she has fled has not been resolved within the year, but still lasts five years, we cannot send her back after that. That's what I mean by a human approach. Very few people have returned to Kosovo. We must be realistic. If people are taken care of here, they cannot be sent back after a number of years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u33	I would like to say again on behalf of my group that there should be no conflict between the majority parties if there is not. Humanitarian visas were indeed discussed in plenary last week. The Secretary of State has already responded to this in the context of the policy statement and the hearings in October. There he said that he was not unneged, but that there were, of course, a number of reservations and practical objections. That didn't fall out of the sky. So there is no conflict in that area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic149x.u34	The other questions on the agenda will be discussed on 12 May. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 3329 by Mrs Pas and Question No 33 by Mrs Ewing Mr Demon's 3677 question was converted into a written question.
