ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u1	Madam Minister, at the beginning of June, a call was launched for the submission of the issue of debt securities. The aim was to gather as many ideas as possible from the ground in order to launch concrete projects. The issue of pilot projects had to be consistent with a number of objectives which I have listed again. I understand the deadline was September 6th. How many projects have finally walked in? Have all these submitted projects been accepted? Which sectors were particularly eligible? Is it possible to provide an overview of the projects submitted? What next steps will you and your administration take in concrete terms? Have you already taken a decision, on the basis of the projects submitted, on what priority themes they will take? What is the average time frame for these projects? How many years or months will they be spread over? What kind of support do they get? Who exactly follows up on the projects? In what way is this reported? Finally, what are the conditions regarding study design? Is there a minimum number of patients or are there other methodological limitations imposed for the outcome to be able to be rolled out later? If so, what are the outcomes? Who's checking all this out?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u2	Madam Secretary, I will be brief, because I have the same questions. There are about 500 projects. How's the evaluation going? Is a mid-term evaluation foreseen? What's the duration? How will the practical implementation of pilot projects continue, as Mrs Van Camp did earlier?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, the exact nature of the projects has been detailed in the call for proposals that we have just launched and published. These criteria were drawn up in consultation with the professional groups concerned. Only they know how quickly the projects can be implemented and how quickly they can be started. During the call of 6 September, all field workers were invited to propose theme assignments. We received 219 e-mails. Some had several thematic proposals. On this basis, 470 proposals were identified. Many proposals were formulated by hospitals, managements, doctors and nurses. However, proposals were also made in the field of home care and care for the elderly, primary workers, general practitioners, as well as pharmacists, paramedics and medical specialists. Some proposals have also been answered by patients, patient organisations, material suppliers, consultancy companies, research groups or educational groups. The different categories in which they can be divided are, firstly, the complex home care provided by nursing staff and/or general practitioners. There are also a number of proposals on the establishment of residential structures for temporary stay, such as rehabilitation centres, care hotels and rehabilitation centres. A number of proposals revolve around the various forms of outpatient care, day hospitalizations or care outside the hospital. A number of proposals are based on remote monitoring, such as telemonitoring. A number of proposals are based on a redistribution of tasks between hospitals. A number of proposals also put forward a number of ideas about new forms of treatment within the hospital. Of course, a whole inventory had to be made. We are examining these proposals in the context of consultation with the representatives of the sector as well as with the administrations. A selection will be made of a number of topics for which calls for candidatures will be launched in the coming months. We will launch these calls sequentially and, of course, not all at the same time. It is sometimes interesting to make one call after another. As you know, the first call was launched in July 2015 on the theme "Care with a short hospital stay'. For this first call, the interested partners were given until 30 September to submit a letter of intent on their wish to participate. In October, they will be able to calculate the budget guarantee precisely through a calculation model. They will have to submit a final application by the end of October. In other words, they get the calculation of what they would receive for their pilot project before they have to decide to participate in it. So they don't just jump into the deep end. The aim is to be able to start the approved pilot projects around a shortened hospital stay in early 2016. The details of the call for candidacy can be found on the website of the RIZIV, of the FPS Public Health and my professional website. These pilot projects are intended to run for a period of two years. This period may be extended for a further year if necessary. The call also stated that the follow-up and evaluation of projects will be carried out in part on the basis of the criteria which the project partners themselves may propose, in accordance with the objectives of the modified organisational method, and partly on the basis of criteria laid down by the public authorities. This will also be done by selected theme. First, the issue of debt securities is defined and then the criteria. We can have the issue delivered to the members of the committee, Madam President. The content of the pilot projects is, of course, somewhat more difficult. It's not because this is being sent to us that this is my property and I can publish it. The applicants are located in a more or less competitive market. The budgetary implications are also important for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u4	Madam Secretary, thank you. We look forward to further progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u5	Madam President, Minister, I asked you a question about this before the recess, and then you replied on the one hand that you would consider whether it would be possible to publish the watch-keeping service for pharmacists on the website www.apotheek.be, provided, of course, that the safety of pharmacists is guaranteed. On the other hand, you would examine the possibility of integrating the pharmacist watch service into the free number 1733 system. The provision of watchkeeping services for pharmacists remains a major problem. The Apothecary newspaper paid attention to it on the front page. Meanwhile, I also received new complaints, in particular that the call centre that is now operational would deliberately prolong calls to increase revenue. What steps have you taken in the file since then? What are the next steps you will take and do you have a timing for this? When do you expect the results of the investigation to which you referred in the answer to the previous question?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u6	Madam President, Mrs Inez De Coninck, you have already received an answer to a similar question. Meanwhile, the competent authority at the Public Health Office contacted the following actors: the APB, Ophaco, the Order of Pharmacies, the FAGG, the provincial medical committees, the health inspectors and the Department of Home Affairs, to have a discussion on this issue. Since early 2015, the guidance committee responsible for the follow-up and evaluation of the plan of GPs has been extended to include other professionals, with a view to an extension in the future, including several other guards, such as pharmacists. Since the roll-out of the project 1733 is still ongoing and is therefore not yet completed, it is not possible at present to immediately integrate the watch-keeping services of the official pharmacies. This extension is planned but depends, inter alia, on the technical and physical resources of the 112 plants. The provision of this system will therefore only be gradual. We are still looking for a sustainable solution, in the meantime with the actors on the ground, in order to find a more pragmatic solution, ensuring both the safety of pharmacists and the legitimate provision of services to the public.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u7	Madam Minister, thank you for the efforts you have already made. However, I would urge that a solution be found to the problem by ensuring that the guard service for pharmacists is no longer paying. It seems to me to be a basic service to which any citizen, including those who no longer have a call credit, should be able to use at any time. On the one hand, there is the safety of pharmacists, but on the other hand there is the basic service, where pharmacists must be available without having to pay so many euros for a telephone call. We will continue to follow up on that problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u8	You will see that it is the intention to integrate in the long term and then we will reach the point you are referring to. In the field, however, it is not immediately technically feasible, and we must take note of that, even if it is not pleasant. We continue to pursue our goal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u9	Madam Minister, I believe that we are all pursuing this objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u10	Madam President, Minister, in 2011 an investigation conducted by the Medical Assessment and Control Service (MSC) screened the invoices sent to 3,173 patients who had appeared in one of the 103 emergency services. Very often, this had highlighted problems that resulted in unnecessary additional costs in community reimbursements. Hospitals also seemed to take advantage of this to artificially inflate their financial returns. That is why I was pleased to hear that you intend to open an investigation into emergency services by the end of 2015. They cost INAMI 70 million euros each year. If there are many abuses on the part of patients as well as hospital establishments, this should be addressed. In addition, it seems interesting to me to note that 10% of calls to 112 are abusive. It is very common for people to make up 112 because they do not want to wait in the waiting room of the general practitioner. The problem lies in the fact that abuses are difficult to prevent, not to mention that no sanction can be imposed on those who confuse ambulance with VIP access to medical care. Minister, do you have an agenda for your emergency services investigation? If so, can you communicate it to me? Can you tell me what your methodology will be for this survey? In case of a problem, can you tell me what your attitude will be? Will a direct sanction be considered or will a warning only be given? Can you tell me your position on abusive calls to 112? Is it not possible to introduce a sanction or find a solution to this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u11	Mrs Cassart, as announced earlier this year again, the competent control department of INAMI will follow up on the study on emergency services, to which you refer in your question. The precise timetable is being developed. If the methodology is not yet definitively chosen, the Medical Assessment and Control Service is considering some options based on their potential performance and the investment in resources required. It goes without saying, in order to achieve maximum effect, that information should not be disseminated beforehand. The attitude and response of the Medical Assessment and Control Service depends on the nature and severity of the findings. Other factors are the size of the offences, the relative number and the value of recoverable amounts, i.e. payments that are unwarranted by compulsory health care and benefits insurance. The Medical Assessment and Control Service has preventive and also repressive tools, ranging from awareness-raising actions on recovery, to procedures for imposing additional fines. My administration has worked with the Internal SPF and the Belgian Institute for Postal Services and Telecommunications (IBPT) to create a legal framework that will allow the unified call centre to block malicious calls. An agreement was reached between the various partners representing the relief services. There is no planned financial penalty but a blocking of numbers after following a procedure of several warnings. The draft royal decree is currently being submitted to the competent minister Alexander De Croo, in charge of Telecommunications.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u12	Minister, thank you for your full answer. I understand that we cannot say everything in committee so that this investigation can be carried out at best. I think it will have to be completed by the end of the year. So I will come back to you at that time to know your position. I really hope that these abuses can be punished. Hospital waiting rooms should not be engulfed if some patients can be cared for by on-call general practitioners. We must try to find solutions so that everyone finds their place and can be treated in the right place.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u13	Madam Secretary, I also asked questions about it in April. You said at the time that if it appeared that the whistleblower was wrong, it would act against it. So at the start of this year, I would like to ask you what is going on with this investigation. What about the European framework that had to be developed in this sense with regard to the regulation of medical devices?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u14	Mrs Van Camp, both the inspections and the tox screen have now been completed. The inspections have shown that Terumo has been aware since 2012 of the fact that the adhesive used may sometimes break up, releasing the so-called bisphenol A diglycidyl ether or BADGE. From the outset, Terumo has carried out studies on the potential toxicity of this substance and the possibility of developing another adhesive, another hub design or other manufacturing process to prevent this. To date, however, there is no method that can completely stop the phenomenon of separation of that adhesive. Terumo's progress in this process is closely monitored by the FAGG inspection services. However, the tox screen carried out by the FAGG based on a literature study, the results of the research carried out by the Netherlands Institute for Public Health and the Environment and the results of the studies carried out by Terumo showed that there was no danger to public health in the normal use of these needles. Additional toxicological tests carried out at the request of the FAGG confirm previous results and thus support the conclusion. The studies of the Netherlands National Institute for Public Health and the Environment have shown that not only the needles of Terumo contain particles and BADGE, but also the needles of several other manufacturers. Therefore, at the end of the year, the Health Inspectorate and the National Institute will organise a congress for all manufacturers of injection needles who sell their goods on the European market. The FAGG will also speak at that conference. Its purpose is to sensitize all manufacturers of injection needles. The identity of the whistleblower is unknown to the FAGG. He has only checked in with our colleagues from the Dutch Health Inspectorate. The FAGG will not take any action, either against the whistleblower or against the production house. It is up to the Agency, if there is any doubt, to do everything possible to ensure that public health is safeguarded. In this file, the FAGG has done so and that is the end of the matter. In the context of future European regulation and at the meeting of 19 June 2015, the Council adopted a general approach on the European Commission's proposals on medical devices and in vitro diagnostics. A balanced compromise was found to increase the quality of the tools on the market. The proposals will now be the subject of a trialogue between Parliament, the Commission and the Council. Negotiations are expected to be concluded in early 2016. We therefore remain vigilant. Whistleblower or not, if there are suspicions, then an investigation must be conducted by the FAGG.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u15	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u16	Madam President, Madam Minister, general practitioners are the key figures in primary care. They shall be well supported therein. For example, they are given incentives to keep up with the global medical file, for ICT, for a secretariat, and so on. Pharmacists also play a key role in primary care. However, they pay €10 per month to gain access to the GMD. Following the abolition of the SIS card, they are obliged to connect online. They also face an increasing administrative burden. In order, for example, to obtain an award for education, they must register it extensively. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. What kind of support is there for a pharmacy? That seems to me to be a lot less than the general practitioners. What's the reason for that? Is there a long-term plan to revisit this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u17	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, discussions have been taking place with the pharmaceutical sector for several years to take greater account of the increased role of the pharmacy as a patient's guide and to improve the quality of pharmaceutical care, such as proper use and therapeutic adherence. For example, in April 2010, a whole new remuneration system for pharmacists was introduced that links good pharmaceutical practice and the correct remuneration of the services provided. The remuneration of pharmacists for the delivery of a refundable medicinal product is now in more than 80% of cases independent of the price of the medicinal product. In the past this was not the case at all and was always in relation to the price. This system was designed to evolve with the role of the pharmacist and is therefore also adaptable. For example, since September 2013, the fee for the so-called first episode has been replaced by an accompanying new medication for chronic asthma patients receiving inhaled corticosteroids for the first time. An extension of the inclusion criteria is also under review. Other benefits in kind may also be considered by pharmacists, but we are waiting for proposals from the sector, which can then be discussed by the Committee on the Agreement on Pharmacy and Insurance Institutions, a committee which sits within the RIZIV. The Convention and Agreement Committees each took decisions within their partial budgetary objective on the resources they intend to allocate to computer premia. In the past computer premiums have been paid to pharmacists for the purchase of computer equipment. They are now awaiting their efficient use. A royal decision will also be published this year to award a €400 premium to pharmacists to contribute to the development of e-health. The payment of the premium is linked to compliance with the different conditions such as the use of mycare.net, electronic consultation of Chapter 4 on medicines and containers. Finally, it should be noted that pharmacists within Health still do not have an advisory body dealing with the development of their profession and with quality indicators in their exercise. In this context, a consultation with the deans of the faculties of Pharmacy and the professional association on the establishment of a Council for Pharmacists is planned. This can be seen by analogy with the councils within Public Health for other healthcare professions as also described in the law of 10 May 2015 on healthcare professions. Such a council would be able to deliver more quickly an opinion across the sector, which could be discussed more quickly. The KB for the extra 400 euros is coming up, with of course the condition to work through the e-health platform.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u18	I assume your question concerns both nurses and nurses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u19	You assume, Madam President, there is obviously no discrimination. Minister, your predecessor, Laurette Onkelinx, had put in place an attractive plan for the nursing profession in 2010. In this context, a bonus is granted to nurses with a particular professional qualification or qualification. This plan was a strong commitment to promote the attractiveness of the profession where needs were felt. Of course, it had to be implemented on the basis of the budgets that were available at the time. Several questions arise today concerning the attractiveness premium in particular. For example, nurses with a particular professional qualification or qualification as a mental health and psychiatry nurse are currently eligible for this allowance only if they are employed in hospital services A (Neuropsychiatric services for the observation and treatment of adult patients), T (Neuropsychiatric services for the treatment of adult patients) and Sp (Specialised services for the treatment and rehabilitation of psychogeriatric conditions). A number of nurses with PPH/QPP in psychiatry are therefore unable to receive this premium because they work in other care programs (neuropsychiatric child observation and treatment service, mental health service, psychiatric care home, psychiatry emergency room). Minister, given the importance of mental health care and the development that awaits them, especially outside hospital services, are you considering an extension of the premium for these nurses? More generally, are you considering changing the conditions for granting this premium? It comes to my mind that this could be integrated into the future reform of hospital funding. Could you tell me what it is in and, in any case, confirm that it will be well maintained?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u20	Mr. Frédéric, it is true that a registered nurse for a particular title or qualification in mental health can receive a bonus when working in a service when the standards of accreditation require such specialization. The objective has always been to award a bonus to registered nurses for a qualification or qualification, working in a hospital in an approved care program or function that requires this specialization or in a nursing home, nursing home and nursing home. As regards services K, child psychiatry and IB and projects 107, no bonus has yet been granted since specialization is not required by the standards. Mrs Muylle has already asked questions about this. It has always been said that the budget is insufficient to fund all qualified nurses with a specific professional designation or professional qualification in all federal health sectors. It was considered that the premiums would cover special professional qualifications and special professional qualifications as they were legalised by a ministerial decree, since the list was already set out in the Royal Decree of 27 September 2006 establishing the list of professional qualifications and special professional qualifications for practitioners of nursing. As you know and as you suggest, we are working on a revision of Royal Decree No. 78, giving particular attention to nurses as they form a very important group among caregivers. The current granting of qualifications and qualifications to certain specializations in certain services is no longer sustainable. Not only because of a budgetary impact, but also precisely because of the inequalities that exist within the same occupational group. That is why I am based on a generic vision of specialization, not only in mental health care but also in acute care, chronic care and mother and child care. In this context, we discuss, together with the social partners and the Institute for Classification of Functions, how specialisations should be valued. We hope to find a solution to avoid inequality among caregivers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u21	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Differences can always be eliminated by going down rather than upwards. I have taken note of the fact that the objective is to value all those who specialize in nursing. In rural areas, it is the kind of qualification that no longer exists, there is no longer any attraction for the profession. I live in the east of Belgium and I can tell you that nurses who specialize are engaged when they leave school in France, Luxembourg or Germany but not in our regions. We need to keep a close eye on these people who are forming and who have a particular specialization.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u22	Madam President, Minister, we have been able to read recently in the press that there are some who are concerned that hospitals could be targeted by terrorist groups. In this regard, some argue in particular for an adaptation of the legislation on hospital safety or that the authorities should analyse the reality and extent of the risk in order to provide advice so that public buildings can best deal with these possible new threats. Minister, have any contacts with the Minister of the Interior been made in this regard? Have the relevant departments conducted an analysis of the reality of this alleged risk? If so, do the services feel that the fear is well-founded or, in any case, that the threat is significantly higher than for other publicly available places? If so, and without seeking to reinforce the concerns that may already exist in patients, accompanying patients and hospital staff, have specific recommendations been made to hospitals to minimize this risk?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u23	Mr Senesael, there is a need to distinguish between the safety of buildings and their protection, for example by the police. Since the sixth reform of the State, safety standards for hospital infrastructure have been the responsibility of the federated entities. We can point out that many measures have already been taken in hospitals, often in consultation with police areas, in particular to prevent theft of patient-owned property. However, the issue of security that you are dealing with is of a different order. In this case, I can tell you that the government is constantly concerned with ensuring the safety of our citizens, including in hospitals. Measures that must be taken to deal with a terrorist threat to hospitals are assessed and decided by the government in the same manner as for all other circumstances in which this threat may arise. The government adequately treats the authorized advice in terms of the risk analysis it receives in this regard. If they recommend taking specific measures to protect hospitals, as a member of the government, I will take them seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u24	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. I would also like to thank you for your particular attention to this issue and for the management of it, with a view to ensuring security.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u25	Questions No 6300 by Mrs Sonja Becq and No 6310 by Mrs Nathalie Muylle are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u26	Madam President, Madam Minister, in your reply to my written question on doctoral practice at the Brussels-Central station, run by a commercial company, you stated that you intended to examine the quality assurance of this practice. Where do you stand with that, Madam Secretary? What guarantees have you been able to build in in the meantime? Who will check these guarantees? According to my information, these doctors are not convenient today and charge market prices. Are the patients aware of this? If not, will you take action? You also replied this summer that you did not know what arrangements this practice has made in order to guarantee a watch-keeping service outside normal working hours? Do you have any more clarity about this? I am also concerned about the deontological aspect of this practice. You said you'd ask for the advice of the Order of Doctors. Did you get that yet? When can we expect it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u27	Madam President, Mrs Dedry, I repeat that every doctor's practice must meet minimum quality requirements, which relate to the appropriate professional qualifications and the environment of the exercise, but also to professional, expert and deontological action. In cooperation with the administration, we are in the process of rewriting the law on the exercise of health professions, with the intention of establishing a framework law which provides for generally applicable principles for all health professions, of course limited to federal competence. In addition, we are working on a draft law on the practice of health care, with the aim of creating a legal framework that ensures that quality and safety guarantees are provided to the patient, wherever the care is provided. In other words, this law will also apply to care provided in approved hospitals, in extramural practices and in so-called private clinics. The intention is to have the preliminary draft law ready by the end of 2016, so that its parliamentary examination can also take place. More specifically, regarding the practice at the Brussels-Central station, an opinion has been requested from the Provincial Medical Committees of Flemish Brabant and Brussels. In that opinion, the Committee noted that there was no illegal practice of medicine. I also asked for an opinion on the participation in watchkeeping, the Order of Doctors. A delegation from the Bureau visited the site and discussions also took place with the doctor who works in that centre, as well as with the managers of that centre, who are not doctors. On the deontological level, the delegation of the Order of Doctors identified no problems, but it was noted that the quality and continuity of the therapeutic relationship between doctor and patient is a global and integrated global medical dossier of great importance. In practice, it was found that contacts with patients were rather occasional, so questions can rightly be asked. It is also important that the medical staff responsible for the centre is also permanent and available. This type of practice should preferably be carried out in collaboration with the treating physician, to whom the patient is re-directed whenever possible and taking into account the patient's wishes. On the other hand, it should also be noted that in an urban environment, where first-line pathology patients often move immediately to an emergency service, this service can facilitate access to first-line care. Finally, care providers who are not inconvenient are obliged to clearly inform their patients about this, including through a poster in the waiting room or in the office. This is also the subject of control by the services.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u28	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u29	Madam Secretary, in September the results of a publication in BMJ in which paroxetine, sold to us as Seroxat, was investigated. It was found that this was harmful for children and adolescents under 18 years of age. The article said that more than 130 000 Belgians take Seroxat. However, it did not say how many young people take this medicine with us. Madam Minister, will you now take action, for example in the form of a circular letter, to point out this indication, in particular that Seroxat should not be used for children under 18 years of age? Are there any indications that this is true? Are you considering whether the official indications can be adjusted to exclude sales to minors? More generally, the discussion showed that it could be useful to release the research data of pharmaceutical companies. Otherwise, this wouldn't have come to light. Is that a measure you want to take?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u30	Mrs Van Camp, we do not believe that a circular letter is necessary because the package leaflet is very clear. It says: "Paroxetine should not be used in children and adolescents." Controlled clinical studies show that paroxetine is associated with an increased risk of suicidal behaviour and hostility. In addition, this study does not provide sufficient evidence of the effectiveness of paroxentine in Chapter 4. This warning is repeated a few more times. The information for users is also very clear. Paroxetine should not be used in children and adolescents under 18 years of age. On 18 September, the Belgian Centre for Pharmacotherapeutic Information, an independent non-profit organisation funded by the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products, published a report on the website explaining the recent press coverage of paroxetine. Suspension or withdrawal of a marketing authorisation for safety reasons shall, in principle, only take place when the risk-benefit balance of the medicinal product has been evaluated as adverse. Such an evaluation is currently usually carried out at European level by the European Medicines Agency, EEA. There is no such adverse assessment for the time being. Healthcare professionals can continue to use paroxetine but of course only for the indications given in the package leaflet. The new European Regulation No. 536 of 2014 on clinical trials with medicinal products for human use fundamentally changes the approach to data derived from clinical trials. As soon as this European regulation enters into force, data, which are part of a market licence, are no longer confidential for commercial reasons. These data can therefore be made public with respect for any privacy aspects. The entry into force will depend on the development of a European web portal announced for mid 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u31	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jiroflée's 6428 is hereby withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u32	Madam President, Minister, at the moment most women opt for breast reconstruction with implants, not because they prefer it, but more than likely because it is refunded as opposed to breast reconstructions with their own tissue. However, it is much more durable to do this with your own tissue, so the procedure should not be performed again. The prices are also very different according to which surgeon and in which hospital the surgery takes place. Do you agree with me that such breast reconstructions with their own tissue are more durable and that we should go for this instead of repeated reconstructions with implants? We can do efficiency gains here, and we can also do quality gains for women themselves. Are you willing to evolve to a refund around these breast reconstructions with their own tissue? Do you know of unauthorized profiteering and high rates in breast reconstructions with implants?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u33	Madam President, Madam Minister, as you expect me to do, I am going to try to look at this from my scientific background. The breast reconstruction study of the KCE has stirred up a lot of dust, especially very soon after the release of the study. On the other hand, I spent a whole weekend trying to figure out the full English version. Although I understand that there is an urge to objectify the cost via an hourly wage, I have noticed that the KCE uses three scenarios, of which at least the first scenario is highly dubious. The hourly wage is calculated there only on the basis of the benefits reimbursed by the RIZIV. Everyone knows that the work of a plastic surgeon for more than half consists of performances that are not refunded by the RIZIV. So I think that scenario is a bit off. For me, it is more important that the report recognises that the study is very minimal and is actually not perfect and that the calculated hourly wages can only serve as a basis for negotiations with the professional association, as these hourly wages are completely fictitious. In addition, the KCE considers that the re-negotiation of a certain nomenclature number should be recommended only in the context of a complete and thorough review of all nomenclatures. I do not think that the problem can be completely separated from the reimbursement for reconstructions with implants, nor from a calculation of a lifetime cost for both interventions, since the reconstruction with its own tissue is more or less quick to produce a final result and unfortunately the procedure with implants needs to be repeated after a few years. I do not think it is wise to decouple from the study of the expertise required to carry out a reconstruction with its own tissue. Since only a handful of surgeons can perform the procedure, a certain amount of knowledge and experience is required. My questions to you, Madam Secretary, are slightly different from those of my fellow Members. What is your opinion on the content of the full KCE report? Do you already have plans to start new negotiations with the professional association of plastic surgeons, whether or not in consultation with certain patient associations? Perhaps even more importantly, given that the nomenclatures are linked and that you had planned to change the nomenclature in the government agreement, I would have liked to know how far you are in the process of making a complete revision of them?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u34	Madam Secretary, the situation is well outlined. The KCE study was explained to me by the board of directors of the KCE. I understand that the information on which we base ourselves and the situation were not ideal. My questions are in line with Mrs Capoen's questions. Welke concluded trekt u uit de studie? The study also contains a number of recommendations. The KCE requests that the review of the nomenclature be reviewed in the light of the review of the nomenclature. There is also more to it than those recommendations. There should be greater transparency, for example on the distinction between intellectual and technical performance in relation to the nomenclature. In that sense, the study is a little more detailed and nuanced than was said earlier. I also experience such situations, not as a doctor, but as a director of a hospital. Patients often have to pay 3 to 4 000 euros, and in a single room even up to 6 000 euros, for supplements to recover something after a disease. Those people are in a very vulnerable situation. For some, the intervention is not financially feasible at all. I therefore believe, Madam Minister, and that is what we can also read between the lines of the KCE study, that there needs to be more transparency. There has already been a revision of the nomenclature in this area some time ago, and the law on patients' rights also applies to this situation. The patient needs to know clearly what she stands for. The funding must be clear. I understand, because that was clearly the purpose of the study, that this is not yet the case today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u35	Mrs Dedry, Mrs Capoen and Mrs Muylle, thank you for your continued interest in breast reconstruction with your own tissue, the so-called "warm breast'. I didn't invent that. That existed before I became a minister. The intention was already in 2013 to meet with plastic surgeons about the fees for breast reconstruction. The Medicomut 2013-214 agreement stated that the revaluation of the relevant nomenclature codes would result in a 50% reduction. I quote the Medicomut agreement: 'This revaluation will be carried out after consultation with a representative of the plastic surgery associations in order to ensure a proportionate reduction of the supplements used.' The measure would be implemented by adjusting the nomenclature on the basis of the results of the consultations to be launched on 1 February 2013. In the meantime, there has indeed been consultation, but no agreement has been reached. This measure announced in the Medicomut agreement has therefore remained dead letter. Now there's the KCE study you referred to. This is certainly an important new element in the further consultation, if one and the other do not dispute the content of that study, on the basis of several elements, some of which Mrs Capoen mentioned. It is, of course, annoying that this study is being challenged because of the methodology and because of the amount that could cost such a reconstruction of a warm breast. I delivered the study to the RIZIV, in particular to the Technical Medical Council, where discussions on this matter will continue and where due attention will have to be paid to the extent to which the outcome of the KCE, the recommendations and the bullets can play a role. I'll leave that to them. You know the experts should be there. It is important that the vulnerable group of patients concerned be protected against the improper requirements for reimbursement through so-called aesthetic supplements in addition to fees and other current supplements. Reference has already been made to the law on patients' rights, but it is clear that, when a room is set up, it must be known that there are financial consequences for a single or double room. It must also be said what the cost of the intervention will be. This is all part of the law on patients' rights, which continues to apply. As already mentioned, there is also a very important emotional factor. For women who need such an intervention, emotion often goes beyond reason. I can only understand that. We also need to consider whether the implementation of complex interventions should be limited from 7, 8 to 9 hours for a single breast cancer to reference centres, thus centres of expertise, so that we can not only guarantee quality better, but also optimise the efficiency of the care pathway, which could also have a beneficial effect on the cost structure. That idea still needs to be worked out. With regard to the revision of the nomenclature, I take the recommendations of the Knowledge Centre with me in the third major yard, in addition to hospital funding and the review of the Royal Decree. Some of them relate to intellectual documents, others to professionalism in the field, especially for those specialised doctors. We are indeed taking these issues into account in the great exercise of reviewing or revising the nomenclature, but that is not the end of the matter for the patient. From 2013 to now, it has proved impossible to get the care providers and the RIZIV in line; arguments are presented on both sides. We hope to get out, even if only because the vulnerable group of women with breast cancer, one in three, is faced with a full breast amputation, rather than a warm breast. I think it's necessary for them to come to that. I am just waiting for the outcome of the discussions. I have asked the Technical Medical Council to charge the data of the Knowledge Centre so that a solution can be found in consultation. I hope that people will get out because it is really not easy. I understand that, on the one hand, there must be tariff security for women who have to undergo such an intervention, because it is not an aesthetic but a reconstructive procedure. On the other hand, I also understand that plastic surgeons point out the technical skills needed for this and the fact that this is a long-term, tiring and precise operation for which they want appropriate compensation. For surgeries that last for so many hours, the bill goes up. The parties will have to reach a compromise. As far as supplements are concerned in the single rooms, I believe that once and for all it is necessary to check whether they can be removed from the hospital fund, because this really does not make it easy for the patient. I believe that we should take care of the patient first and foremost. Again, this matter is in the large yard of hospital funding. I'm sure it'll come back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u36	Madam Minister, I hear a number of positive elements in your reply. You really do advocate tariff security for patients, which is very important in this respect. I also agree with you that we need to move towards a few reference centres, which can also be an important point. Of course, it will take some time because the revision of the nomenclature is taking place within a larger yard, and I can agree with that. Between the lines, I understand that as Minister of Health, you have a warm heart for the reconstruction with your own tissue, a warm heart for a warm breast, and you want to work politically for it, regardless of whether or not an agreement is reached during the Medicomut consultation. So you think that choice is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u37	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It's a very complex problem that's been dragging on for a long time. I should like briefly to point out that mere adjustment may not be enough. In flap surgery, there are very large differences, especially where bilateral surgery is concerned. With DIEP flap surgery, the second breast is only reimbursed half, while if the same surgery is performed with another flap, it is paid back twice for one hundred percent. Idem for implants. A very wide adjustment is therefore important. I also understand that, within one specialty, some of the nomenclature's items are sometimes compensated better than others. Often this is also just for compensation, something that has arisen over the years within the same specialism. Of course, it has to be borne in mind that the nomenclature is a house of cards, in the sense that if one pulls on one, the whole structure will collapse. We do not want to get what is currently happening in the Netherlands, the country that we often see as a reference point, but not always right. In some hospitals, this procedure may only be carried out twice a year by the hospital administration, otherwise it will not be profitable at all. I hope that we do not go this way, because we have enormous expertise. We are one of the world's leaders on warm chest construction, and I hope we will not lose it. As far as reference centres are concerned, I am not always in favour of this. When it comes to surgery, the skills of the surgeon, his hands, are still important and at least as important as the fact that this happens in a reference centre.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u38	Madam Minister, we cannot solve it here, and it is unlikely that you will be able to resolve it in the short term, even though you gave all the elements to find a solution. You have outlined the problem well. On the one hand, it is a technical procedure that requires a lot of know-how and requires clear funding, and on the other hand, patients who are very emotional at the time. Madam Minister, I have met ladies who have had a very difficult time with the fact that they have to pay EUR 3 000 for what is described on the invoice as aesthetic supplements, whereas it is not an aesthetic for them, but rather the preservation of their self-esteem. Such an intervention offers these women life chances and a future. The difference between the technical affordability and the feelings of those patients makes it difficult. It is true that there is a need to clarify patients' rights, but the fees for supplements are very different in the different specialised hospitals. You put it correctly when you say that the patient must be able to have tariff security in a very vulnerable period of her life. However, it should also be affordable for patients so that they can opt for breast reconstruction. To be continued, I'd say. The Chair: Complex and to be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u39	Madam Minister, research carried out by the University of Maastricht, in cooperation with partner universities, shows that carcinogenic substances from the food of pregnant women can pass through the placenta into the fetus' umbilical cord blood. What the researchers noticed is that boys have a higher susceptibility to leukemia than girls. Madam Secretary, the number of children's cancer patients in our country is increasing a little every year. What do you think of the results of this investigation? Do you agree that substances from the food of pregnant women penetrate the placenta? If so, do you think that sufficient attention is paid in our country to the relationship between food and carcinogenic substances? If so, would it not be better to tackle the root problem and prevent these substances from being fed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u40	Between 2004 and 2012, 754 children, between 0 and 14 years of age, were affected by leukaemia in Belgium. The condition is indeed more frequent in boys. In this group are 56.1 % boys and 43.9 % girls. Leukemia also appears to be more common in boys than in girls in the Netherlands and Germany. The Foundation against Cancer has examined the Dutch study to which you refer in detail. It points out that the researchers themselves stress that this is merely a theoretical finding. Comparison of umbilical cord blood showed a higher susceptibility to potentially carcinogenic substances, which in some cases may also cause leukaemia, especially in young boys, which could explain why young girls are less often confronted with them. The researchers decide that more research is needed to formulate concrete advice for pregnant women. However, their strongest recommendation concerns a point which they believe they have been able to demonstrate with certainty, in particular the adverse impact of tobacco and alcohol on the health of both mother and child. Those aren't new conclusions. We have all agreed for years that tobacco and alcohol and pregnancy do not go hand in hand. Surely demonstrating the causes of cancer is not an easy task anyway. Human beings are exposed to a large number of substances every day, including food. However, there is also the interaction between possible substances, which makes such research very challenging. The recent EFSA opinion on acrylamide shows this. Despite the large number of human studies carried out, there is still no conclusive conclusion to be drawn. As you know, we are guided by the precautionary principle in the area of food safety. My fellow Minister for Agriculture is responsible for food safety. The relevant policies, including the regulation of food contaminants, have been harmonised at European level for years. It aims to ensure a high level of public health protection. Standards for contaminants in our diet, including for substances that may be genotoxic and carcinogenic, are established on the basis of the as-low-as-resesonably-achievable principle. This applies both to environmental contaminants, such as dioxins in the environment, meat and fish, and process contaminants, such as acrylamide and polyaromatic hydrocarbons, which are formed during food preparation, such as baking, frying, barbecuing, smoking, drying, roasting and what is still possible. These substances are not added to our diet and contamination and formation are difficult to avoid. The aim of European pollution legislation is to set maximum levels as low as possible in order to encourage good practice and to protect consumer health. In our country, the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain, the BFSA, checks the presence of these contaminants. The results of the work can be seen in the annual reports on the website of the BFSA. This is very topical considering the whole buzz about eating red meat. A healthy and varied diet is and remains important. These are the conclusions and recommendations of the researchers who carried out this study. This is even more true for pregnant women who have even more reason to eat well-balanced food and leave smoking and drinking alcohol during pregnancy. I assume that also the federated entities that have the power to do prevention and to give specific nutritional recommendations, including to pregnant women, will assume their responsibility. I believe that we will often come back to this when we see what press releases are buzzing us on all sides about that red meat. From Australia and America to the other side of the planet, that's what we're working on. So that will really follow. Of course, the WHO is also very concerned about this, although their coverage is not always very nuanced. In any case, I think we will have to come back to that on many occasions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u41	Mr. Borsus may have to change his red meat site.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u42	Madam Minister, I am glad that you clearly mentioned the precautionary principle in your reply, because that is very important in this. It always takes a number of years for certain issues to come on the agenda for society and be on the political agenda. You also say that we will hear a lot about it and that it will follow. Since I am a member of an ecological party, you will have many questions from me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u43	Madam President, Minister, the government agreement rightly paid particular attention to mental health and to the various programmes under Article 107 children and young people, the guide which was launched and which is in full effect. We had a clear ambition to eliminate both blind spots in the projects and to anchor the resources structurally. I understand that there is currently a discussion going on between the domes on the widening and deepening of the networks. That is a very positive thing. However, we are concerned about the phasing-out of operating resources: EUR 425 000 per network, the merging of networks and the redeployment of resources. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Is it true that the financing of mobile equipment will have to be reduced by EUR 425 000 in the future? What does this mean? Will the mobile teams in the future be financed through the freezing of additional hospital beds? The sector speaks of a standard of 8 FTE per 100 000 inhabitants. On which population exactly is that 100 000 calculated? Is it about adults or are young people and children included in those figures? I understand that an evaluation of the projects is under way, and there has also been a phase-out of the projects. How is this handled? Within Article 107, the function of 2 mobile teams is a federal jurisdiction. I understand you'd like to add to that. How does that relate to the other functions, such as sheltered living, which are a Community competence? Was there any consultation on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u44	Madam President, Minister, mental health is extremely important in our country and is becoming increasingly important. Among other things, the figures on depression show this. As Mr Muylle has just outlined, there is some concern in the sector about Article 107. I have a number of specific questions. The operating budget would be reduced by EUR 420 000 from 2016. That means a cut-off. By January 2017, the standard of 8 FTE per 100 000 inhabitants should be met. Where did this calculation come from? How was it objectively established? Why is there no distinction between the different regions depending on a concentration of T-beds? For example, regions with a higher concentration of T-beds can provide a little easier funding for themselves. Are there figures available from the caseload per FTE per region? Are there any obvious differences? Is there a correlation between having too many T-beds and having a lower caseload per VTE?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u45	Minister, some of my questions are similar, but the main thrust of my question is whether there is not a working method, an order of decisions and processes to be put in place that should be re-established. First, we are normally in the evaluation phase. Three universities seem to have worked on the subject. However, for having interviewed all those active in the field in the field of mental health care and reform-related platforms 107, they appear not to have been consulted. The report resulting from this academic work cannot, in my view, bear the name of evaluation. What evaluation guidelines and methodologies have been established as part of this academic work? What grids have been built, what are the authors and with whom have they collaborated? Have any conclusions or recommendations already been made? If so, what are they and how have they been developed? Is this work still to be completed? According to the field information that I also have, the SPF Santé has instructed the platforms to cover the entire territory without being included in it. The approach is logical, but no management criteria have been given as to how to cover the territory or how to ensure that the different actors organize themselves. It is therefore competition and the law of the jungle that are rigorous between the actors, which is inevitably done at the expense of meeting the needs and the population concerned. What about it? Have you identified any criteria? My colleagues have addressed the issue, the method of calculating human means also seems to have changed, as it would now be eight full-time equivalents per 100,000 people. On the basis of what criteria has this been established? With regard to beds to be condemned by hospitals, I would like to know how things will be done chronologically. Indeed, if beds are condemned, it is to develop other alternatives such as sheltered housing, nursing homes or teams working in the outpatient area. For these alternatives to develop, it is of course important that we know the views, budgets and organisations of the different regions and communities concerned. How are things organized in this area? Finally, with regard to the "freezing" of beds, hospital capacities in psychiatry are obviously not the same in all regions of the country. Thus, the province of Walloon Brabant, Luxembourg and the south of Hainaut do not have enough capacity to condemn beds and thus adapt to the reform. They therefore failed in the first phase of the process. If we don't change the situation and we don't change the criteria, they won't be able to participate in the next phase either. Should we not, too, devise another way of organising the development of ambulatory forms? On the other hand, the possibility offered by Article 51 of the institutional reform which allows the transfer of resources from the federal to the regions in the transformation "hospital to places" may also need to be used. Finally, Madam Minister, are the places and measures for children and young people included in the whole of reform 107 or is it only for adults?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u46	I would like to thank Mrs Muylle, Mrs Hufkens and Mrs Gerkens for their questions. Mobile teams will in future be fully financed through the decommissioning of additional hospital beds, which is in line with the spirit of the reform. Mobile teams shall contain a maximum of eight full-time equivalents per 100 000 inhabitants. That's calculated on the basis of the official population. Achieving the same level of full-time equivalents per mobile team is an important step to provide the same coverage for each network and each municipality. At present there are grey areas where there is no cover. It is by no means the only stage in the socialization of care, but the general coverage of our territory is a first necessary step. With regard to start-up costs, the Article 107 projects were able to incur their costs for a period of five years. An amount of EUR 425 000 was earmarked for this purpose. It is intended that, when some projects will no longer receive a start-up fee after five years, the funds released will be devoted to broadening Article 107 projects. In particular, it concerns the first 10 projects which used Article 107 at the time. We have found that there has been some concern on the ground, probably because the financing of the start-up costs was also used for other purposes. We have therefore decided, together with the administration, to provide for a transitional period so that these projects can prepare themselves for the removal of the start-up fee. The projects will have to find a solution for financing other than the start-up. In consultation with the Länder and the various mental health federations, a plan will also be drawn up for both financing and further freezing of the number of beds. Finally, it obviously does not fit in with the socialization of care to use so-called start-up costs to finance full-time equivalents for other purposes such as the mobile team. Of course, this is not an incentive for mobile teams to disable more beds, precisely by being more on site. It thus undermines the idea of more socialization and tailor-made care. In addition, the FPS Public Health pays the entire daily fee for a bed that is out of service, including the so-called hotel costs. Moreover, recovery of start-up means is not an economy. Indeed, as the government agreement requires, we only need to fill the gaps. They will also be entitled to start-ups for several years. On the question of whether there are minimum standards for networks to merge in some provinces, know that a region should have a minimum of 300,000 inhabitants in order to operate optimally. What is described is only another step in the reform that constitutes the networks (cf. Article 107). Actions to strengthen mobile teams do not include decisions on the greatest importance of any function within the network. The care chain is complete only if early detection, resocialization and alternative housing forms are firmly installed. As you have pointed out, these elements fall within the competence of the Communities. In doing so, I will continue to focus on consultation within the framework of the Interdepartmental Conference on Public Health. I come to Mrs Gerkens' question about the situation in Walloon Brabant, Luxembourg and the south of Hainaut. Madam, your question requires a very detailed answer. However, my office did not receive this question until yesterday morning at 8:11 a.m. So you will understand that I am not in a position to answer it today. That is why I propose that you ask me a written question or forward the answer to your question at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u47	Madam Minister, it is a good thing that a phaser is being built in so that the sector knows what to do. The evaluation will also be carried out in stages. There is time from 2016 to 2018 to do so. I understand your attitude to operating costs, but I have seen the start-up of various networks up close. That was often not easy. There are very few PAAZ beds in certain regions that can be exempted and there was also no cooperation with general hospitals to do so. It only had to come from beds from smaller psychiatric hospitals, which then freed up a part of the beds. You rightly say in your reply that it is more than operating equipment, rents, buildings and cars, because it has also financed staff. We will then find that a new exercise is needed, because the staff employed will now have to fall within the 8 FTE per 100 000 inhabitants. However, the history is very different between the networks. You say positive things, too. In my province, for example, there is a rumor that we are going from 4 to 2 networks. You are talking about EUR 300 000, which I think is a good estimate. It would no longer be the case for West Flanders. For 4 networks it would be EUR 250 000. There is still uncertainty as to whether we are falling back on 2 or 3 networks. May I give you another recommendation, Madam Secretary? In the coming period, it is very important to ensure that the networks are coordinated. There will now be a provincial network around children and young people, a number of new networks around Article 107 under the 8 FTE and the new funding and hospitals will also have to make an exercise around the networks. You probably know that Zorgnet-Icuro is releasing a new note this week, which talks about 14 healthcare regions. The organisation has done a first exercise on regional networks. Zorgnet-Icuro rightly says that mental health, PAAZ and psychiatric hospitals should also be looked at. In the exercise that is currently taking place, it is also necessary to work within certain regions, not only with separate regions of GGZ and separate hospitals networks. I also feel this question very clearly on the ground, because everything is so intertwined. For example, work can be carried out in parallel for a long time. The regions of GGZ and within the functions of Article 107 are partly similar to those of the hospitals. There will therefore be a need for coordination with the regions, because in the first line there is also a need to develop networks. I am not saying that people are working side by side, that is not true, but I want there to be greater coherence within the framework of the networks in the future, so that things can be better coordinated on the ground. I was gonna give you that recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u48	Mrs Muylle, it is to your credit that you stand up for West Flanders, Madam President, that you stand up for three Walloon provinces, but the point is that there is also coverage for mental health care, so that all patients, from north to south and from west to east, are given proper care wherever they are. That is why we want a broadening and general coverage. It has to be over with gaps. We must, of course, take account of what already exists on the ground, in the provinces. Which hospitals work with which networks? This must be taken into account. That is what is being done, but you must also understand that there will be a certain degree of uniformity in funding. I am referring to the number of full-time equivalents per 100 000 inhabitants for all provinces, not to mention Brussels, which is not represented here. You are, of course, represented by people from West Flanders or Wallonia, and I understand that. However, I would also ask you to understand a policy in which the patient, regardless of his place of residence, is given good care, including in the area of mental health. You know that there is a great deal of consultation, including with Zorgnet-Icuro, which still groups many hospitals. It's a good thing they've been merged. Then there is only one meeting needed instead of two, and that is certainly an added value. When we talk about the provinces, the right care must come into the right place, including in the area of mental health care. I believe that we in this country will take a long step forward, because that has always been the sick little brother. As far as operating costs are concerned, I am sorry, but if it says that there are operating costs for five years, then it is not fair or good governance to use those resources for other purposes. I am prepared to talk to them about possible transitional measures, but I cannot allow such matters to exist. A five-year start-up premium is not a structural operating cost for the following years. That's never been said. That's where I'm supposed to stand.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u49	Madam Minister, I will stand up with you for Flemish Brabant, and also for the Kempen, because that is where I come from. I think you're right about 200 %. Mental health care is far too important to look at them regionally. It is very important that we look at them in their entirety and pay more attention to them in this way. I am therefore remembering the positive news that you are providing for a transitional period, and I look forward to seeing what else will follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u50	Madam Minister, I share your concern to cover the entire territory and I think the same is true of my colleagues. It is true that it is still difficult, in the case of pilot projects organised on a voluntary basis and on a zone, to harmonise thereafter. But if I have not had contact with the platforms and actors in the Flemish Region, I have had contact with the whole of Wallonia and Brussels. According to my feelings and the information in my possession, there is no consultation to work together on the criteria and the organization. Thus, in the province of Liège, where there is a platform that covers an area and a huge number of inhabitants, the needs are not met. When, in Hainaut, you do not build with the actors about the organization, it is clear that this part wants to tie up such another piece of Hainaut and it is interests of hospital structure, interests of structure of care that pass first and not those of the cover of the territory. Also, I invite you to set up a system of consultation with actors in the field and not only with associations and federations of hospitals or some researchers in the Chamber. The same applies to personnel standards. Why 8 full-time equivalents per 100,000 population? People need to understand the relevance of this proportion. My question about the problem of bed gels when in some areas hospitals do not have sufficient hospital capacity is not a specific question. When we launched the first phase 107, regions could not develop a project 107 due to insufficient beds to freeze in order to meet the criteria. If today, in a new call for this project, we retain the same criteria, these regions (Brabant, Luxembourg and the south of Hainaut) will not be able to introduce one, simply because they do not have the capacity of hospital beds to freeze. That's what I wanted to draw your attention to. If the three universities have carried out evaluation work without consulting the actors in the field, it is necessary to organise a meeting between the actors in the field and the authors of this research, because the purpose of their evaluations is not known, their way of proceeding and the conclusions which they draw from them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u51	Mrs Gerkens, consultations are still under way. To avoid gaps and grey areas, the same criteria cannot be maintained for other projects. I'm going to check with my co-worker who's following this file closely. As you know, we must first try to have a clear vision of the organization on the ground. This is the first time that we are going to organize this throughout the territory. I have noted your concern. I think the figure of 8 full-time equivalents per 100,000 inhabitants comes from universities, but I have to check. I have noted that there is a need for more meetings with people on the ground, but there is still a need for enough discussion. I think you're going a little too fast. First, you have to have a clear vision of what's going on and then the rest will be settled. As you say, there are differences, there are regions where there are not enough beds. And as Mrs Muylle said, we must also respect everything that already exists. We are doing a huge job in a short time. Ten pilot projects have been in existence for five years. There's a lot of concern on the ground. Field workers work "functioning" and do not always want to continue. We must try to build a structural and stable network, to motivate staff a little more and offer them more opportunities because they are often young people. We will have to do a fine tuning based on what has existed for a long time or what is to be created. It's a great job. I will ask my collaborator who is really immersed in this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u52	It would be good if universities met with the project's stakeholders before concluding their studies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u53	Madam President, Madam Minister, at the hearings in our Public Health Committee on Lyme disease, I was able to talk to a number of patients who told me that chelation therapy had been recommended to them. I was a little surprised. I had the opportunity to question your predecessor in the Senate. The answer seemed very vague to me. So I wanted to come back to you with this subject, these patients spoke to me again. Chelation therapy involves the administration of a substance that combines with metallic chemicals to increase their excretion by the kidneys. The most common form is a series of intravenous injections containing a chelating agent and a variety of other substances. Physicians who recommend and practice chelation therapy – which is part of their constant medical practice – say it is effective in treating autism, heart disease and many rare diseases. The urinary test that is used suggests that the patient is poisoned by lead or mercury. The procedure is in fact a "provoked" analysis in which the chelating agent is administered before the blood sample is obtained. This increases the level of lead, mercury and/or other heavy metals in the urine. The report of the analysis, a copy of which is given to the patient, states that its "reference values" are for unprovoked samples, whereas they are caused. However, if a level of analysis exceeds the reference values, it is reported as "high" even if it should be considered non-significant. The patient is then advised to undergo detoxification with chelation therapy, other intravenous treatments and dietary supplements that the practitioner can sell. However, the Minister, by consulting some sites related to this therapy, states that no diagnosis of lead or mercury toxicity should be made unless the patient has symptoms of heavy metal poisoning or a higher level of these metals in the blood without provocation. Chelation therapy seems dangerous to me; it leads to widespread depletion of mineral salts and even serious poisoning. According to the sites I visited, several children were reportedly hospitalized. In France, this therapy was carried by an association called Breadcrumb. The principal person in charge of this association is said to have recently been removed from the Order of Physicians. The discourse of the proponents of this theory naturally revolves around the points that are commonly heard: doctors stand between them, anyone who contradicts therapy is part of the "complot" orchestrated by pharmaceutical companies, etc. Minister, what do your services know about this chelation therapy? What assessment do they make of the latter? Is there an evaluation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u54	Mr. Miller, the practice you describe suggests the illegal exercise of medicine or some other offence. Chelation may be indicated and justified provided that it is carried out by competent and responsible providers. At first glance, no complaints or reports of irresponsible or illegal practices have been received to date. You suggest that these practices exist. It is necessary to advise those who have been confronted with it to file a complaint or to the Provincial Medical Commission. Complaints are required to carry out specific checks. If you know patients who have experienced this type of practice and are dissatisfied with their treatment – which I think is also quite odd, but I am not an expert in this field – they must be encouraged to report this to the provincial medical commissions. But until now, we have no complaints. We don't know how to do much on the basis of rumors. But you substantiated your question well. I think that patients really need to be guided towards this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u55	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. There is indeed a need for complaints. That's quite normal. But I feel that following the development of some rare diseases, this type of therapy is increasingly recommended. I will share your answer with the people who told me about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u56	Question No 6507 by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux is transformed into a written question. Joined Questions No 6508, 6509, 6510 by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, No 6547 by Mrs Catherine Fonck and No 6940 by Mrs Anne Dedry are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u57	Madam President, Madam Minister, for years, the family planning centres have been delivering contraceptive pills and the following day's pills to young girls who wish to do so. These centres are important places where everyone can find help in matters of sexual and emotional life. In the Walloon Region, an estimated 30,000 birth control pills and 5,000 day-to-day pills are distributed each year in the planning process. Today, more than 80% of the family planning centres in the Walloon Region no longer allow this issue, considering it necessary to follow the legislation on the issue of medicines. The others continue to function as they have always done, even though they know themselves to be illegal. According to Royal Decree No. 78 of 1967, a medicine must, with some exceptions, be prescribed by a doctor and issued by a pharmacist. Since the pill is a medicine, it cannot be delivered without medical advice. The problem is that at present many family planning centres do not have a physician present at all times. Today, therefore, we fear a possible increase in the number of abortions due to the non-delivery of the next day's pill by these centres. It is very likely that young or less young and sometimes precarised girls who want to buy this pill will not go to a pharmacy to ask for it, where they will not benefit from the anonymity guaranteed in the family planning centres and will also have to pay if they are over 21 years of age. Madam Minister, I assume that this problem is not unknown to you. Have any contacts ever been made with your colleagues from federated entities on the subject? Are there any short-term options to enable the centres to continue to provide emergency assistance to these girls?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u58	Mr Frédéric, thank you for your question. I am aware of the problem you are raising. The problem of continuity of care in family planning centres stems from a lack of doctors willing to commit themselves to a function in these centres. To the extent possible and reasonable and in accordance with my expertise, I will work constructively to find a solution. In November 2014, the Federal Council of Midwives issued an opinion on the competence of midwife in family planning. Following the proposals made in the opinion, I asked the Conseil supérieur des médecins spéciales et des médecins généralistes to take a decision on this issue. You will understand that the competencies of care providers must match the skills required. With this in mind, I will examine very carefully what actions could be taken to answer this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u59	Minister, thank you for being aware of this. That's good already. At the beginning of your speech, you gave an update on the Interdepartmental Conference. Is it true that on this occasion the Walloon Region would have submitted the idea that the royal decree could be amended so that the nurses would be entitled to deliver these pills and that you would have shown a positive interest in this suggestion?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u60	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u61	So we are going to move forward, but what are you going to do about the planning centres, since some continue to distribute them?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u62	The aid is not interrupted but some centres do not have a doctor. A structural solution must therefore be found. It seems useful to me to go in the direction of medical supervision. However, in practice, it is not possible to have a doctor in each centre.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u63	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u64	Minister, according to a KCE report, some doctors regularly prescribe off-label drugs. When a medicinal product is used outside the authorised dosage, age group or patient, therapeutic indication and/or route of administration, use is referred to as "without marketing authorisation" or off-label use. According to this study by the Federal Centre of Expertise on Health Care, these prescriptions would be used mainly in children, pregnant women, cancer patients, HIV-AIDS patients or people in palliative care. 80% of the drugs prescribed in paediatrics would concern off-label use. If sometimes it is the only solution to treat a patient, this method does not always guarantee efficacy and is not without risk. The KCE therefore proposes that reliable scientific evidence be gathered in relation to these uses, and that, in case of negative evidence, off-label be prohibited and that, if not, different measures be put in place to ensure that the product used in off-label is safe, effective and efficient. Madam Minister, have you ever heard of this KCE report? Do you intend to take steps to meet the recommendations made by the Committee? If so, what could these measures be?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u65	Mr Frédéric, we have read the KCE report on the off-label use of medicines. Since this report is very recent, it will still need to be analysed in detail, also taking into account the results of the off-label study carried out by the European Commission and the evolution of the discussions in the European Commission's Working Group on Safe and Timely Access to Medicines for Patients. To date, various initiatives have been taken at European and national level to regulate and limit off-label use. These include the European regulations providing for measures to ensure the collection of the data necessary to define the conditions for the use of a medicinal product in children. In particular, it is foreseen that in future, any new medicinal product or indication not yet registered in the European Union will be the subject of specific paediatric practice, provided that the need for it is justified. With regard to medicinal products already on the market which are no longer protected by an additional protection certificate and which do not contain paediatric indications but which are nevertheless prescribed in the child, other legal provisions have been laid down. This is a new European marketing authorisation exclusively for paediatric patients, which is known as paediatric-use marketing authorisation (PUMA). This new authorisation is accompanied by a 10-year protection granted on a voluntary basis and on the basis of a formal plan of investigation carried out by the firm concerned. As regards the off-label use of medicinal products as part of an indication with an unmet medical need, there are compassionate use programmes which consist of making available to patients, an innovative medicine which does not yet have a marketing authorisation but for which phase 3 clinical studies are in progress or are already finalized. Another possibility is the use of the Medical Need Program, which is to make available to patients a drug that has a marketing authorisation for use for an indication that is not approved under that authorisation. National legislation on these two types of programmes was reviewed in 2014. As a result, a new process has been put in place within the Research and Development Division of the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products (AFMPS) General Directorate of Pre-Authorization in collaboration with INAMI. Further information can be found on the Agency's website. With regard to the KCE recommendations, an in-depth evaluation of the proposed measures is under way. Here, in particular, there is a question of the actions to be taken at European level and at the level of firms. This could also be the promotion of independent studies funded by the authorities in collaboration with the centres of expertise. I recall that when off-label use cannot be avoided, it must be properly framed in terms of pharmacovigilance and this use is carried out under the responsibility of the prescribing doctor who must inform his patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u66	Madam Chair, I thank the Minister for her response.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u67	Joined Questions No 6530 by Mrs Nathalie Muylle and No 6602 by Mrs Monica De Coninck are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u68	Madam President, Madam Minister, according to a survey by a mutual body, 20% of births in Belgium are currently carried out by caesarean section. However, the World Health Organization (WHO) considers that the ideal rate of Caesarean section should be between 10% and 15%. In Belgium, this rate also varies considerably depending on the hospital institution taken into account. When medically justified, Caesarean section can effectively prevent maternal and perinatal mortality and morbidity. However, as the WHO states: "Like any surgical procedure, Caesarean section is associated with short- and long-term risks that may persist several years after delivery and affect the health of the woman and her child and subsequent pregnancies." The Caesarean section is therefore far from being annoyed. Moreover, as the survey also points out, this type of childbirth has a significant financial impact on health care insurance. For example, a low birth cost on average €3,673 (including €2,695 reimbursed) compared to €4,705 (including €3,360 reimbursed) for a caesarean delivery. Minister, can you confirm the figures presented in this investigation? Do you have precise figures on the rate of Caesarean section in our country? Have any studies been conducted recently on the evolution of this rate in our country? How do you explain that this rate is so high? Do you consider it necessary to reach the WHO maximum rate on this issue? If so, what steps do you plan to take? Are consultations with healthcare professionals and stakeholders in the field envisaged in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u69	Mr. Frédéric, the costs for Caesarean section and normal delivery could not be substantially changed since this part of the nomenclature has not been changed in years. On the other hand, the percentage of cesareanians increased from 19.19 per cent in 2005 to 21.02 per cent in 2014. I have a detailed chart at your disposal. The absolute number of caesarean women has remained around 24,500 since 2011, but the number of births has decreased slightly, resulting in the increase in the percentage of caesarean women. These figures are derived from the Actuarial within INAMI and are compiled quarterly on the basis of the figures which insurers are obliged to deliver as part of the expenditure monitoring. The supposed causes of the increase in the number of caesarean section are described in an OECD 2013 report. In particular, it is indicated that the risk associated with a caesarean section has decreased. Forensic reasons and time management may possibly explain the increase. According to the WHO declaration, it is not necessary to target a specific percentage per se, but a Caesarean section should be proposed if necessary. When assessing the proportion of caesareans in an establishment, consideration should be given to the characteristics of the population. The WHO is developing the Robson indicator for this purpose. This will provide a better understanding of the differences in the percentage of cesarean section among institutions. The variation is not only found in Belgium. The average rate of Caesarean section in the Member States, as reflected in the OECD report, is 26.9%. The Belgian percentage is therefore much lower than this average. On the other hand, as you indicate, the WHO report shows that cesarean caesarean rates at the population level above 10% are no longer associated with a decrease in maternal or neonatal mortality. Epistolary contacts have already been made by my strategic cell with scientific associations as well as with a doctor's union. Several initiatives have emerged, such as the Platform for a Respected Birth in Wallonia and the "Normale Geborte" campaign in Flanders. We will discuss jointly with professional groups what actions can be taken to reduce this percentage. If a caesarean section is necessary, it goes without saying that it should not be prevented, but we will try to reduce their frequency, which is still high in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u70	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u71	Madam President, Madam Secretary, a few days after your royal decision on medicinal cannabis, some media reported on the rising number of young people and young adults seeking professional help to get rid of their cannabis problems. The Flemish Association of Treatment Centres Drug Addiction Care reports 600 aid seekers in 2013. That number is still rising. Cannabis has the image of being innocent. This perception is enhanced by the label soft drugs, which gets the drug glued on, while the effects of cannabis are getting harder and harder. The strength of cannabis is determined by the percentage of THC that it contains. Compared to the 1970s and 1980s, this percentage has often increased tenfold, with THC rates rising to 15% and more in some current cannabis variants. The purer the product and the more own cultivation, the more dangerous the impact is. It is that proportion of THC in cannabis that causes long-term mental dependence and mental problems. Some young people are, of course, more sensitive due to genetic defects. In 2007 and 2008, the renowned British medical profession The Lancet has already fought for another classification of narcotics, including cannabis. This alternative classification is proposed by the magazine on the basis of three parameters: firstly, the damage to the user's human body; secondly, the extent to which the drug is addictive; thirdly, the impact of its use on the family and society. Help centres, such as De Key, have also repeatedly argued for a review of the classification of cannabis. The Netherlands, the most famous cannabis country, has had serious debates since 2011, to catalog cannabis with a higher THC rate as a hard drug. My questions to you are the following. Firstly, how do you feel about the opinion of, among other things, The Lancet, which states that a different classification of cannabis is imposing itself? On what parameters do you think that classification should be determined? Secondly, following the announcement of the coalition agreement, it has already been indicated that a review of the existing policy of tolerance on soft drugs is desirable. What's the status of this review? What initiatives have you taken together with your fellow Members? What concrete results have they produced so far? We have just heard from the report on the Inter-Ministerial Conference that you have planned a number of initiatives. What additional initiatives can we expect in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u72	Madam President, Mrs Van Hoof, I think you were present at the coverage of the thematic meeting on Drugs. It cooperates with other departments, such as Justice and Home Affairs. Through the Inter-Ministerial Conference, cooperation can be extended, with, for example, the Land Ministers, responsible for Education. There is a need for a great deal of cooperation with other departments on the issue of drugs, and that is why this is happening within the framework of the General Policy on Drugs. In March 2015, he delivered a technical report, in which a part is also the analysis of the broad cannabis policy in our country. That report was on the agenda of the Drugs thematic meeting of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on 19 October. The intention now is, after we have taken note of that report, to examine policy implications and submit them to the Inter-Ministerial Conference. It is clear that the health risk derivatives of a psychoactive substance are one of the most important elements for a regulatory classification. However, that risk is not only determined by this, but also by the way of use, the frequency of use and the potential vulnerability of a person. The social attitude towards a psychoactive substance also plays a role. It is therefore a set of criteria, between which a proper balance must be found. This is one of the difficulties facing us and which we must, of course, continue to work on. However, the aim is to be able to take the necessary steps against the highly volatile drug market. Every day there are products on that market, unfortunately. That market works with supply and demand. Quite a few products blow over via connections with abroad. These products are also sought so that they can be analysed for their composition. That investigation is carried out on pills seized by customs. There is also cooperation with customs in order to identify changes in the market. Sometimes we have issued warnings from the Scientific Institute for Public Health. Since this summer, there have been two. After all, we found that doses at least doubled in the party drugs. Five new psychoactive substances were also found in the drugs. In cannabis there are many differences in what is offered on the market. The fact that they're addictive applies to all of them. However, it can be said that the first pill can also be the last pill. It is clear that we must be careful. We are also trying to warn if we are being alerted. Of course, it remains something that needs to be addressed. We sometimes look over the wall. The Netherlands was always the reference. It seems to me that it has now become clear that the right choices have not been made with the coffeeshops and the tolerance policy. We have chosen not to pursue a policy of tolerance. As far as medical cannabis is concerned, you know that only one medicinal form has proved its worth. This is a very well-defined group of patients. One must have multiple sclerosis in a certain degree and there must be spasms that do not respond to other medications. In that respect, no expansions have been envisaged despite the questions for cannabis oil, which flood my cabinet. As long as there is no scientific evidence that derived products have an effect, we do not intend to respond to these questions. There is still a lot of work to be done in this area. The report of the General Cell Drug Policy was quite bulky. It wasn't just about cannabis. We are continuing to work on the possible policy implications to be presented to the Inter-Ministerial Conference with feedback to the other governments in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u73	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I feel clearly that you are still exploring, but are also concerned about the impact of increasingly diverse, dangerous drugs. It does not seem to me to be sufficiently investigated how certain drugs cause certain genetic abnormalities with psychological consequences earlier than expected. Certain substances seem to be responsible for this. I am thinking, for example, of manic-depressive people, something whose chances are often also genetically determined. All this is still being investigated, but it is precisely these drugs that make it much earlier than expected. A great deal of attention and research will be needed, but hopefully some conclusions can be drawn by next year. After all, I understood earlier that this would be something for November 2016. I'll take care of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u74	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Yoleen Van Camp's 6555 and 6557 have been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Muylle's 6564 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u75	Madam President, as I have already informed the secretariat, I do not understand why my question has not been merged with the previous one. After all, they are almost identical, except that mine has a piece to it. Madam Minister, like Mr Van Hoof, I would like to ask you a question about the classification of cannabis, which has shown that there are increasing levels of THC. I won't repeat it all. That debate has just taken place. I do not think there has been an answer to the question of how you see this classification and whether you will examine whether it needs to be changed. You have indicated that this is more than just about the THC content, but the real question is, of course, whether you agree that we should consider whether we should and can change the classification. You have replied to the question of what steps are being taken to eliminate the policy of tolerance as set out in the coalition agreement. I have heard that November 2016 is a guide moment to make some conclusions for discussion. It would be nice if, at that point in time, we could discuss this subject in greater depth in committee, whether or not in cooperation with other committees. I believe that this is not an insignificant issue. I would like to ask you another question. You mentioned in your reply to Mrs Van Hoof that you have been dealing with a number of other drugs issues in recent months. You have recently rightly warned through various media channels of the dangerous variant of ecstasy that is now on the market, and which by its composition represents a direct danger to its user. The fact that you delivered that message was a very good thing. The more young people and adults you can scare off with that message, the better. I therefore think that you have done very well in this area. I do have a small thought when you broke a lance in the VTM news day after that for centers where users can test pills for their composition. I know that such centres already exist in our country today, don't get me wrong, but I can't get the impression that this has undermined your message from the day before. You're actually signaling that there would be something like a good, safe ecstasy pill. According to our group, such centres are not the way to go. The problems associated with frequent drug use have just been discussed. So I will not go into too much detail. I do ask you the additional question, regardless of my question about classification, whether you really intend to set up drug testing centres in Flanders, because they do not exist there if I have been informed correctly? Wouldn't it be better to use the resources to help or further prevent this? Prevention is no longer federal jurisdiction, of course, but okay. We have already discussed what else you want to do. Once again, I believe that this question should have been merged with the previous one. We're repeating ourselves a little bit now, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u76	I will not repeat what I said in the other question. I've always said I don't recommend the use of drugs. It's really not good for health in general. For classification we still have to consider whether we should continue to use the terms soft drugs and hard drugs. I think this is out of date, given the dangers that the so-called classified soft drugs can bring. The provisions on tolerance policy in the federal government agreement leave nothing to be desired. The Minister of Justice is, of course, responsible for prosecution policy, but in view of the global and integrated approach to our drug policy and the importance of clear regulations on possession and use, we also deal with this in the general drug policy cell and report to the Inter-Ministerial Conference. The test rooms or labs already exist in Wallonia, in Brussels, in several European countries. It doesn't exist in Flanders. I am asked whether I think this should be considered. I have said that I am already opposed at first to this being used and traded, but let us be pragmatic. We must do everything we can to discourage the use of drugs, but if there are any pills in circulation, it might be better to limit the damage as much as possible by having them investigated. If we know what is in it, we can better explain to the potential user why it can be very harmful. Another added value is that through this research we discover substances that we did not know existed. The drugs that are seized, at events in the summer but also at parties throughout the year, are probably just the tip of the iceberg. More information is therefore interesting for monitoring our unfortunately existing drug market through the early warning system of the Scientific Institute of Public Health. If we are to consider that, it must also have added value. You are right that otherwise this money will not be properly spent. Firstly, it should teach us what is in it and what the dangers are. That must be communicated to those people. Through this early warning system, the Scientific Institute for Public Health is already doing so, so the emergency services, the hospitals and anyone who can get in touch with someone who is intoxicated or makes weird go through the effects and the side effects. Then they know that they have the right information when they are called to a patient who is no longer aware in most cases while bystanders often try to hide what it is about. I therefore felt it necessary to warn against those potentially high doses and dangerous substances. I don't always think that's necessary, but we were there for a long weekend with a number of events. I believe that we should continue this debate. We must not remain silent about it because it exists in our society. It's like with weeds in the garden, when one pretends not to see it, it grows further. I therefore believe that we should continue to talk about it and that we should continue to draw attention to the dangers. Justice must also continue to act. Unfortunately, there are still people who are the victims of this. The media also play an important role in this. I remember, for example, that the message I gave was a video of an Irish teenage girl who had taken her first night out of a party drug. It was not only her first, but also her last, because when one saw what condition she was in, it was really another person. It was very dissuasive and I therefore believe that it is a good thing that the social media should also address this issue. Nevertheless, we must continue to do everything we can with all the departments and governments involved to ensure that as few people as possible turn to this filth, these drugs. You know they're forbidden, but then the hidden temptations play. We must try to make it clear that this can have very disastrous effects on health. Whether they are genetically predisposed may play a role, but we must clearly say that there are no safe or good drugs. We can advise against it, and if you can talk about it somewhere, that is another step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u77	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive reply. I understand why you are giving such an answer to the question, because there are equally good aspects of such centres that can be discussed. I hope, however, that the debate on the substance of next year will be held in the future. After all, I remain of the opinion that the danger of a double signal is very great. The interception and investigation of drugs and then, as you have done very well, sending a signal about this in the media and in cooperation with them through the clear video you referred to, is the right way to deter and warn people. I still find it difficult to draw a very clear line on drug policy on the one hand, but on the other hand we say that people can come by and have pills tested on the other hand. That debate will have to be brought to the fore. That does not alter the fact that I know and understand your argument for and against, but I do not fully follow them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u78	I do not want to put the head in the sand and think it will blow over, because that is not the case. The doses are getting higher, the cocktails are getting more aggressive. I am concerned that it is making a lot of money. We do need to explore other possibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u79	The firm always has the final say as to whether or not it is appropriate to attach the questions. In this case, the content was different.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u80	Madam Secretary, recently the media reported that 16% of the cafes still ignore the smoking ban in the catering industry. The Neutral Syndicate for the Self-employed states that it understands from an economic point of view when cafes violate the smoking ban. However, the rules are clear. No smoking is allowed in any café. The Flemish League against Cancer responds that accepting that the legislation on smoking ban in the hospitality industry is ignored is equivalent to playing with the health of the pub visitors. That is why I would have liked to ask you the following questions. Firstly, will you ask the Public Health Office to carry out more checks in cafés? Secondly, there are cafes that have already been demolished several times. Do you think the sanctions for bars that ignore the smoking ban are high enough? Are you planning heavier sanctions for cafes that ignore the smoking ban? Thirdly, do you have information about cafes where smoking bans are not respected? How many cafes were banned during the first half of 2015 for violating the smoking ban? In which provinces and center cities are they mostly marginalized? How many cafes is it not the first time they have been sanctioned for violating the smoking ban? Finally, what additional awareness-raising measures are you planning? Have you discussed this policy with your fellow Members of the European Communities? As you said earlier, you are in consultation at the Inter-Ministerial Conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u81	Mrs. Van Hoof, it's funny. We just talked about nutrition. The message of the German Minister for Food, Mr Schmidt, is: 'N'ayez pas peur de manger une saucisse'. Speaking of clear communication, also abroad. Mrs Dedry, this can be added to your question. Mrs Van Hoof, on the ban on smoking in the hospitality sector and the awareness-raising policy, the Tobacco and Alcohol Control Service of the Public Health Office, this year proposed 5 000 checks on smoking bans. In the first three quarters we already had 4 100 checks carried out. More stringent penalties have been introduced since May 2014. The fines are tripled to EUR 6 000 and there is a possibility for judges to close a case for six months. The audit figures from January to the end of September show that 15% of cafes still allow smoking. It's going down, but not enough. In 2013, the figure was 22 % and in 2014 it was 18 %. That's 3 to 4 % a year down. It'll take four more years to get there. At the beginning of this year, the FPS Public Health carried out an analysis of where these smoke bars are located. There is a strong regional difference: 5% in Leuven, 13% in Bergen, 25% in Brussels and 38% in Ostend. That's remarkable, isn't it? Since the introduction of the smoking ban on 1 July 2011, the tobacco control department of the FPS Public Health has repeatedly found smoking in around 650 cafes. During the latest state reform, the tobacco fund of the Public Health Office was transferred to the Communities. Sensitisation campaigns are therefore a competence of the Communities. Recently, a judgment was handed down against a bartender who had committed the smoking ban to her boot, for herself but also for her clients. It was sentenced to a heavy fine. That boss will continue to be checked again in the future and, if repeated, she risks having to close her case for six months, so there will be further action. Smoking is therefore decreasing, but it is too slow, because there are still some notorious repeaters among the café holders. Control also becomes more difficult in summer, for example if the windows are open. As you know, our inspectors know many difficulties on their way. For example, in youth clubs and youth parties, they must monitor the ban on alcohol. The ban on smoking also makes no sense if you know what they sometimes get thrown at their heads. Nevertheless, they continue to meet their targets and work very hard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u82	Madam Secretary, you say the fines have already been increased. I can only conclude, based on recent experience, that there is very high support for smoking bans in public places. I was recently in Sarajevo, where smoking is allowed in Parliament and in cafes. The European colleagues reacted shockedly to that. It shows that the smoking ban is being used very quickly and that people agree with actions on this issue, for example the increase in fines. It was very quickly accepted that smoking should no longer be allowed in public places and cafes. It was also about the reaction of the NSZ. From certain cafes, especially the popular cafes, people still hear this comment, but the others have already reconciled themselves with it for a long time. This shows that heavy measures are easily accepted and that many bars do comply with the smoking ban. That's a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u83	Question No 6622 by Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux is transformed into a written question, as is question No 6624 by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu. Questions Nos 6656 and 6792 by Mrs Stéphanie Thoron and Mrs Yoleen Van Camp are postponed. Mr. Jan Vercammen did not indicate anything, his question No. 6658 was deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u84	Madam President, Minister, there are now 125 district health centres and they are becoming increasingly interested abroad. I also notice that our own federal officials at international conferences often cite this example as a way of achieving interdisciplinary primary care in our neighbourhood. Together with the multidisciplinary group practices in the first line, these are good practice examples. It has been a while, but in 2008 the knowledge centre listed a number of important benefits. They are in the written record of my question and I am not going to repeat them all here given the advanced time. In any case, there are many advantages to it, which you should certainly enjoy as a general practitioner. Interdisciplinary cooperation is therefore really the key word. I have the following questions about this. Are you planning to further promote interdisciplinary partnerships, be they district health centres or maisons médicales or multidisciplinary group practices? If so, how will this happen? How will the important integration in the field of cooperation between the general practitioner and the home nurse be achieved on the first line? If first-line practices are cost-effective and therefore save on the second line, can these resources be used in the first line to strengthen them?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u85	Madam President, Mrs Dedry, as regards district health centres, on 1 October 2015, our country had 155 medical homes. The available budget for 2015 is 137 172 000 euros. The entry into the flat-rate payment system takes place in several stages, which means that the various actors in the management of compulsory health insurance have a say in the overall policy of the medical homes and in the admission of new medical homes. The agreement for the flat-rate payment, requested by the caregivers, is examined in advance by the insurance institutions. If they agree with all aspects, the agreement shall be submitted for an opinion to the Insurance Committee, where in particular the representatives of the caregivers working in the system of payment for benefits, including the general practitioners, may make their comments known. Following the opinion of the Insurance Committee, the agreements will be submitted to me for approval, both in general terms and in terms of financial resources, and individually. When new flat-rate payment agreements are concluded, account can therefore be taken of the various concerns you have expressed. The current legal framework of Article 52 of the Health Act does not currently contain any mechanisms regarding the number of medical homes eligible for an agreement. It is actually up to the caregivers themselves to make that free decision, to cooperate and apply for a flat-rate payment agreement in this respect. Of course, it is the patients themselves who decide freely whether or not to register in a medical home. So that grows bottom-up. You refer to the agreement of the Centre of Knowledge, including the provision that there may be less expenditure on the second line. We have that information. However, on the one hand, the doctor himself chooses to work in such a structure and be paid flat-rate and, on the other hand, the patient's choice to be cared for either by a general practitioner or in a medical home. In this respect, therefore, the free choice of one person and the other person has been preserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u86	Madam Minister, I would like to ask my underlying question again if it was not clear. Do you believe in that model? You are talking about a free choice, but are you going to encourage it or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u87	I believe this is growing better bottom-up. It is about free choice, and it seems that viability also depends on regional factors. I have no preference for where this is located.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u88	Question No 6708 by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux is transformed into a written question. Question No 6717 by Mrs Yoleen Van Camp is postponed. Questions Nos 6727 and 6729 by Mr Philippe Blanchart were postponed. Question No 6733 by Mrs Nahima Lanjri is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u89	Madam Secretary, you know that I am a great supporter of breast-feeding. Every year there is an international week of breastfeeding with a lot of attention in the media. I myself wrote an opinion piece on this theme, just like other years. The Federal Breast-feeding Committee, which falls within your competence, also gives a number of opinions every year on that week. It was found that breast-feeding guidance at home after the hospital stay often falls out, making mothers more likely to stop breast-feeding. In Het Nieuwsblad of 2 October, the Federal Breast-feeding Committee was rightly concerned about this. At the same time, on Twitter, the chairman of your party, Mrs Rutten, wrote a number of spicy tweets: "Anno 2015 campaigns for breastfeeding and bourkinis? Two very wrong examples of social pressure. Some more progress feminism please." Minister, do you follow the view of your Federal Breast-feeding Committee or your Chairman that this is no longer the case today? Will you pay attention to this in the announced pilot project short stay after childbirth? Will this fit in with the financial model, so that breast-feeding guidance in the first line of this project will certainly also be possible? There is an ethical code of the WHO to promote breastfeeding and, above all, to restrict unauthorised advertising of artificial nutrition. This is not applied by industry in Belgium. Are you going to do something about this? What?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u90	Mrs Dedry, the added value of breast-feeding for the health of babies and mothers has been scientifically proven. From the point of view of health, therefore, we also encourage them. That doesn't mean breast-feeding can be done anytime and anywhere. That is the message that my President has wished to give: that women who cannot breast-feed, because they cannot physically do so or because they are being treated, should not be culpabilised. I think we agree on that. It is and remains the free choice of every woman within the possibilities of breastfeeding or not. I'm assuming that every mommy wants the best for her baby and only the best. To express that, the campaign was chosen for breast-feeding, we're here for you. The campaign also aims to guide women who choose to breast-feed to caregivers who can provide adapted guidance. It is certainly not the intention to impose more social pressure. Within the classification for midwife, numbers are provided that can be specifically charged for breast-feeding. According to the audit data of the RIZIV, the number of postnatal breastfeeding guidance provided by midwifes increased by 25% in 2014 in one year. So we are seeing another trend towards more breast-feeding, whether or not through the campaigns. I hope so, but there will also be other factors. Breast-feeding has also been taken into account in pilot projects on the shorter post-birth hospital stay. The call says that the continuity of guidance for breastfeeding, such as the learning of some breastfeeding skills, should be guaranteed. Specific indicators on breast-feeding are also included in the quality indicators. You also have a question about advertising baby milk, that is, artificial food. This is regulated by the European Directive on first-age milk and follow-on formulae which is converted into the Royal Decree of 18 February 1991 on foods intended for particular nutritional uses. All comparisons between breast-feeding and so-called infant milk are prohibited. The legislation requires the indication that breastfeeding is preferred. As from July 2016, a new Regulation on first-age milk and follow-on formulae will also enter into force, which provides that labelling and presentation for infant formulae and follow-on formulae should be adapted so that confusion between the two is excluded and the consumer is able to make a clear distinction. As far as first-age milk is concerned, I think it was up to three months, at least when I was a general practitioner, because there are more restrictions on labelling and marketing. However, the distinction between the two was not always clear in practice. So we're going to tighten up for the first-age milk. In preparing this new regulation, Belgium, together with two other European Member States, has called for the restriction of the advertising of follow-on formulae similar to that for first-age milk. However, we were fairly isolated in that respect, as there were two of us. If you find any breaches of the regulations, you can report them to the Public Health Office, so that we can take appropriate action in this respect. Breast-feeding is on the rise again. You know that the number of women who opt for breast-feeding is fluctuating. Again, it's not always your choice. We must do everything we can to ensure that women who opt for breast-feeding are properly accompanied and supported and to make it as pleasant a period as possible. They choose how long they breast-feed. There's also a big difference. Some give it three weeks, others three months and others up to one and a half years. This also varies according to how fast it goes, whether there are complications and how the baby reacts to them. We have a whole arsenal of milk products - concentrated milk, anti-reflux milk, etc. - but only one kind of milk comes from a mother's breast, the breast milk. For other criteria, such as immunity and nutritional value, breast milk is still the reference and the best milk.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u91	Madam Minister, breast milk has always been adapted, packaged and always at temperature. I did not understand one date correctly, in particular the date on labelling and its tightening. What did you say? Were you talking about 2016? [[Permission granted.]] The only thing I would like to add is that in practice it is said that industry does not always apply this correctly. Perhaps there should be more assertiveness in the sector to identify problems. After all, the cabinets and waiting rooms of pediaters are still full of all kinds of things that do not have to be there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-27-54-commissie-ic254x.u92	Colleagues, this is where our work ends. Questions No 6757 by Mrs Ine Somers, No 6835 by Mrs Nathalie Muylle, No 6849 by Mrs Catherine Fonck and No 6877 by Mrs Yoleen Van Camp are transformed into written questions. The remaining questions are postponed to a later date.
