ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u1	Minister, what is the status of the draft social agreement that was under discussion? As a minister, you do not have a front-line role to play in this context. Nevertheless, it is up to you to determine the broad guidelines to be given to the Belgian rail and its staff. That is precisely the question of personnel that I would like to raise with you today. It seems that this social pre-agreement would put on the table the question of the minimum average workforce within the group. Today, it is already not respected, with fewer than 35,000 employees, while the previous social agreement provided for 37,000 full-time equivalents. The social pre-agreement 2015-2017 refers to a workforce adapted to the needs of the group's three companies. Similarly, there is an assessment of the number of recruitments required each year to perform the operational functions within the group. The current estimate is 1,200 staff per year by 2025. At present, however, the group is losing 200 railway workers per month due to staff ageing and retirements. Another point relating to the Staff Regulations, a new provision would allow for the pre-pension of staff members who are either incapacitated or whose position is abolished. There is still a question of abolishing a holiday and compensatory leave and of increasing the maximum working time for specific groups from 9 to 10 hours. Minister, the status of the railway is now under attack on all sides. Do you have any information on the ongoing negotiations? Do you intend to make a priority of defending the status of railway workers? Is your modernization plan planning to enforce the previous agreements that have allowed railway operators to gradually change their status to the current situation? Do you intend to be part of a systematic deconstruction of all these achievements?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u2	In preparation for a social agreement, seven meetings of the working group were held between HR Rail management and representatives of trade union organisations. These meetings took place calmly. A summary document includes the following points: employment, qualitative aspects, social aspects, well-being at work. This document is currently the subject of discussions between national delegates, trade union organisations and their activists. In the next few days, union organizations will communicate their comments to HR Rail. This draft memorandum of understanding does not affect the status of railway workers at all. Management does not anticipate any changes to this status. As you rightly point out, it is not my role to interfere in these negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u3	Thank you, minister, for that brief answer. I understand that it is not up to you to play a front-line role in these negotiations and that there is no desire to touch on the status of railway workers. However, I am concerned about everything I hear. I hope that the facts will confirm your comments. Even if you do not have a front-line role in these negotiations, as a minister you have a say in the definition of the framework, particularly in the modernization plan you will be presenting to us. I hope that we will find the necessary means to preserve the status of railway workers and prevent the reduction of the number of staff we know at the moment. Otherwise, I fear that they will no longer be able to provide an efficient and high-quality public service.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u4	Madam Minister, we have known for years that combining windmills and air traffic control is not always easy because windmills can disrupt the operation of Belgocontrol's radar system. That problem arises in many countries. Fortunately, there are solutions to this. We know that space is scarce and we need to find solutions to combine certain functions. In this problem there is a solution with limited impact to intervene on the soft and hardware of the radar installation. We questioned Mr Decuyper in the Belgocontrol hearing and he was certainly open to solutions. The committee's report states that mitigation measures in relation to windmills are certainly possible and that there are agreements with some suppliers of windmills. At the same time, I hear from the sector that there are no real breakthroughs to effective solutions on the ground, while there are agreements with the Defence Department on the adaptation of their systems, particularly around the air traffic control centre in Semmer. It is useful to clarify a number of issues further. Has Belgocontrol already made any concrete agreements with the wind sector on these adjustments? What is the conclusion? Have agreements been made on investment, cost-sharing and the route to be followed? Have discussions been started with the suppliers of the systems, e.g. Thales who supplied the CANAC 2 system, or possibly other interested parties? Was an estimate made of the costs to be incurred and the time limit for their roll-out? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u5	The problem of the impact of windmills on the operation of the radars is complex. There is no unique and proven solution so far that interference problems with windmills could be avoided for all radar types. Belgocontrol has radars of different types and air traffic control models for the control of calculations at airports and for aviation meteorology. The solutions should therefore be considered on a case-by-case basis. Belgocontrol follows the technological developments and solutions offered by the various suppliers. Belgocontrol has already concluded specific agreements with certain installers of windmills for the modifications to be made to certain radar types as a result of the installation of new windmills. These agreements also cover the financial aspects. However, until today there is no generic agreement or framework agreement with the sector. I have asked Belgocontrol to continue the talks with the windmill sector and with the Defense Department so that the sector could develop further while ensuring the safety of air traffic.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u6	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I do believe that solutions are possible, but that there is a catch all, which solves everything, is not the case. In any case, I am pleased that you have given the order to continue these talks. Certainly the wind energy producers are asking to sit at the table with Belgocontrol to find out what possibilities there are and what solutions might arise from it. So far they have felt that they are not always being heard. I now understand that after your instruction those steps can be taken and that hopefully results can be achieved in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u7	Madam Minister, subsidies to airlines and airports are always sensitive. We notice that in our country, but also outside. The Dutch Secretary of State Wilma Mansveld, responsible for Infrastructure and Environment, has decided to freeze certain flights from Emirates, Etihad Airways and Qatar Airways. In recent months, we have adopted similar actions in France and Germany, including the demand for the European Commission to cooperate with the governments of those countries to ensure that all airlines can compete on a level playing field. Therefore, this currently hampers the development of the market share of those airlines which are currently unable to obtain additional landing rights. At the same time, the European Union and the Gulf States are negotiating an aviation agreement. This would include agreements on state aid. Opinions on the efficiency of this measure are divided, but we must at least ask ourselves what effects we can expect from decisions in our neighbouring countries. I have the following questions. What is your view on this issue? Are you inclined to take similar steps with us? In what sense are you preparing initiatives? What impact does intervention or not intervention have on our own national airport? Do you expect any consequences for our own carriers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u8	Mr Wollants, the issue of fair competition between airlines is indeed essential for maintaining the sustainability of the sector and ensuring optimal connectivity between countries. With regard to the Gulf States, it should be noted that different positions exist within the European Union. At the moment, the European Commission is holding preparatory talks with the Member States with the Gulf States. A third round of meetings in the framework of this dialogue continued in Doha, Qatar, on 18 and 19 May last. I would like to inform you that the Commission has not at present been given a mandate by the Member States to start negotiations for a multilateral aviation agreement with the Gulf States, nor has a common European position been reached in this context because the positions of the various Member States are still far apart. Belgium is in favour of a wide opening up of the market, but it will be all the more efficient if there is sufficient regulation, in particular as regards fair competition between airlines. As far as Belgium is concerned, there are currently three carriers from the Gulf States operating at our airport, both in passenger traffic and in full-freight traffic. The number of passenger flights carried out over the last few years has evolved from 15 weekly flights in 2013 to 22 weekly flights today. At the same time, the number of full-freight flights has increased from 7 to 14 weekly flights. The capacity is regularly reviewed by my services in order to ensure a balance between the needs of the market and the interests of operators, both airports and airlines. Our aim is to ensure the attractiveness of our airports in such a way that new foreign airlines can be attracted and the already active airlines can be retained. This concerns both Gulf States and other airlines, specifically from Asia, which, of course, always take account of the interests of our Belgian airlines. In this way, in the interests of all users, maximum connectivity can be offered with both direct and indirect flights.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u9	Madam Minister, I think it is particularly important that we follow up closely on what is happening. Additional flights are of course not a problem in themselves, unless it concerns the cannibalisation of flights from other carriers which cannot operate in the same way due to the absence of State aid or other rules. This, of course, exposes us, and with it our carriers, including our home carrier, to a form of competition that may not be quite what it should be. I understand that there are different views within Europe. From our country, I think it is important today that we monitor this closely, that we take a good look at what is actually happening on the market and that we dare to receive the necessary signals from European carriers in good time so that, if necessary, we can intervene or, at the same time, press within Europe for a negotiating mandate that is broad enough to deal with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u10	Madam President, I am surprised to see that my questions on the same subject are scattered in different places on the agenda. It wouldn't have been any worse to bring them together. Indeed, the question I now ask, if it is dated, is very similar to question No 5370, which is more current.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u11	(...) or, then, they are gathered together!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u12	Whatever you say! These are very, very close questions!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u13	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u14	Madam President, this weekend in late May we learned of the launch of a major citizen campaign to ban night flying from Brussels National Airport between 22:00 and 07:00. A new benchmarking study, available on the IBGE website, carried out by the independent A-Tech and Anotec offices, finds that Brussels-National Airport has one of the shortest nights compared to the ten compared airports. The conclusions of this study are without appeal: Brussels-National Airport is undoubtedly the worst student in the class. The extension of the night from 10 p.m. to 7 a.m. would undoubtedly be a quick win to relieve all the residents of the airport. Another quick win in this case would undoubtedly be the creation of an independent supervisory authority, to put order in the Belgian sky and objectiveize this case. Such an independent supervisory authority is sorely lacking and will very soon be made compulsory by Europe under European Regulation No 598/2014. According to this benchmarking study too, it is imperative that consultation with all parties to the cause be carried out in order to move together towards a structural and balanced solution for noise management. So my questions are as follows. Why didn't you lie down the night from 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., when it would be a quick win that would relieve all the residents of the airport? Do you intend to instruct Belgocontrol to lengthen the night in those hours? If not, why? If so, when? When will the independent supervisory authority be established and be able to function? When are you going to convene the first working groups – in the meantime, you have gathered some of them – to finally make progress in setting up a structural solution on this issue? Is a work schedule finally agreed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u15	Madam President, Madam Minister, my question relates to this historic agreement between all the associations representing the residents of the Brussels-National airport who request that the environmental night be applied between 10 p.m. and 7 a.m. When I talk about all the associations, it brings together not only all the associations in Brussels but also those in Noordrand, Oostrand and Walloon Brabant. While waiting for a definitive solution, it will do at least good to all residents. This is the first time that unanimity has appeared in this dossier! I therefore feel it is more necessary than ever to apply this measure as quickly as possible, as a quick win, pending the structural solutions you announced eight months ago. If there is a consensus measure, that is the one and the agreement between these associations is the witness. This proposal is to be compared with the benchmarking study published by the Brussels Region recently on noise pollution management at Brussels Airport. This study shows once again that Brussels Airport is the champion of all categories in terms of impact on the populations overflying! Thus, the number of people exposed to noise is higher in the case of Zaventem than elsewhere. Logique, says the study, of which I quote a passage: "Compared to other airports for which it is found that the noise map is limited to the maximum on densely populated areas, it is evident, for the map of the airport of Zaventem, that it strongly encroaches on the Brussels Region, which is yet the most densely populated. At other airports such as Schiphol or Liège, this map is optimized to minimise their impact on urbanised areas." The study calls for a more efficient use of the tracks and a concentration of nuisances on these roads, making it easier and less costly for a policy of soundproofing or buying land. In this context, the application of the environmental night from 10 p.m. to 7 p.m. appears to be a complementary and rather simple solution to be put in place. Minister, will you instruct Belgocontrol to apply the environmental night from 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.? If it's not, why? As part of the structural solutions that you are considering, do you also study the introduction of a policy of planning, land management and soundproofing, as all other European airports do, as advocated by the Brussels study?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u16	Colleagues, in accordance with the government agreement, the night activities from and towards Brussels-National will be analysed. I do not wish to give instruction without having studied in depth all the aspects of the environmental night term and certainly not without consultation with all the actors. Your second question calls for closer cooperation with the regions because it involves, among other things, spatial planning, which is the responsibility of the regions. Another example that you mentioned comes to my mind: aviation easements would harmonize aeronautical decisions in building permit or environmental procedures, activities that, in the vicinity of airports, may pose risks to aviation safety. I wish to find a solution in the interests of all Brusselsers, but also of the other residents concerned. It is only by dispassionating the debate and working in serenity that I will be able to achieve this objective. Mr Dallemagne, the independent supervisory authority that has been in every government agreement for more than ten years is being finalized.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u17	Minister, this answer is also in all the answers to parliamentary questions on this subject for the last ten years. I really count on you to ensure that our successors do not have to come back with this issue and that this independent supervisory authority is soon a reality. This would also allow for more serenity in this case, because at last we would have an objectivation of the components of the wind, of the flights, of the reasons why the planes take a particular road and of the control of the legality of the use of these roads. I'm counting on you to move on quickly. We know that time is running out. For the first time, all associations work together. It's really a plus. There is a momentum, in any case on the side of the residents, whether they are from the north or the south, Brussels, Flemish or Walloons, all want us to move forward on certain points. The issue of night, for example, is really crucial. If we can move forward on this issue, we will have taken a huge step towards the quality of life of the residents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u18	Minister, in turn, I welcome this announcement. The establishment of an independent authority is excellent news. We look forward to reading the texts in this regard. Then you have an opportunity to seize. So far, no Minister of Mobility has had in front of him any united associations – since they were pulling themselves in the hands – in presenting a notebook of grievances. With regard to structural solutions, I would remind you of the entry into force of a European regulation, which will unfortunately complicate your life from mid-2016. Therefore, it would be interesting for you to come and explain to us your structural measures, armed with the support you will receive from associations - if you abound in their direction. I therefore advise you to act before mid-2016, otherwise you may face the difficulties that this new European regulation will impose on you. Finally, the environmental night and, consequently, the reduction of night-to-hour flights can be implemented, with economic activity at the airport being adjusted. We need to know what we want. But the general interest demands this environmental night and this development.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u19	Madam Minister, a number of years ago we discussed a great deal in this committee about punctuality and the effect of the departure procedure on this punctuality. Now we have seen that our Dutch neighbours have an experiment with a countdown clock. According to them, passengers become more aware of the time when the train leaves, so that they do not get on the train quickly, one of the elements of safety. According to their calculations this would also be good for punctuality, namely 17 seconds per train. From the point of view of safety for the departing passengers, it seems interesting to us to see whether this can also be implemented in Belgium. Madam Secretary, do you know this procedure? Has SNCB thought about this, because I did not find this in documents? A new departure procedure has been under discussion for years. Has it entered into force yet? If not, when will that happen? What is the impact on punctuality?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u20	Neither Infrabel nor SNCB intends to implement the system of the countdown clock. SNCB is currently working on a new departure procedure, whereby the train supervisor on the Itris device will be informed when the signal can be passed and whether the departure procedure can be continued. SNCB plans to roll out the new departure procedure from the second quarter of 2017. According to SNCB, the roll-out throughout Belgium will take about six months. SNCB must adapt all its rolling stock and platforms. Infrabel in turn has to adjust the signal houses. SNCB provides for a pilot project to be tested at Dendermonde station as of spring 2016. The results of that pilot project will be used for the safety record. SNCB informs me that the new departure procedure will not affect punctuality.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u21	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u22	Madam Minister, we will, of course, continue to monitor the matter. I'm glad the pilot project is taking place in Dendermonde. We look forward to the results.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, this committee is flexible. We can get in and out as we want. However, we have 80 questions on the agenda. I would therefore ask you, from the moment you enter the committee, to stay there and ask your question in order to avoid going back and forth that are not very friendly to the colleagues present. The plenary session is not far away and we are the only committee that warns everyone. Mr. Vanden Burre was there. He's gone. Too bad for him. Otherwise, we will not get away with it, especially since we are at the end of the parliamentary year and there will be no more question-and-answer sessions. So we'll be a little tighter this time! Question No 4765 by Mrs Inez De Coninck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u24	Mr President, Minister, when we talk about the guaranteed services, we automatically think of SNCB and the guaranteed services for rail transport. However, the coalition agreement also provides for a guaranteed service at Belgocontrol in the event of strikes. In doing so, as in the case of SNCB, priority is given to social dialogue and we hope that this will be accompanied by a proposal from the workers. The recent power failure at Belgocontrol has shown how crucial air traffic control is. That's why I have the following questions. When were or are the social negotiations on a guaranteed service launched at Belgocontrol? What is the state of these negotiations? When do you expect a solution from the social partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u25	Mr President, Minister, my question was already raised during the question on the platform of 12 associations on the future of Zaventem airport. That platform is proposed as a consensus between all the Brussels, Oostrand and Noordrand action groups. However, that is not a consensus platform, because a number of associations, including the Eastrand, are absolutely not in agreement with it. It also states that the activities of Zaventem airport must be relocated elsewhere. You rightly said a few weeks ago that it is not an option to cut down Zaventem airport, but that we need to look for a distribution plan. I'm addressing my question to you. I have followed this dossier for many years in the Flemish Parliament. I've been through the periods Durant, Landuyt and Anciaux. I've been through all the agony of that file. First of all, what is the timing of that distribution plan? Secondly, I would also advise you to stay as close as possible to the Schouppe plan. If you deviate from that, you will be in discussions like at the time of the Wathelet plan a few months ago. I personally went to the Council of State for this, but in the end that was lost in the maze of the elections and the consultation. If one really thinks that a new distribution plan can open all the routes to find a balance, then one goes against the historical routes and then this will cause a lot of problems. Madam Secretary, my question is this. I will follow this committee regularly because I have the impression that the Brussels people are trying to get as few flights as possible over their heads. I read today that Mrs Fonck feels that the channel route should no longer be used. This means that we want to send the planes to the other side of Brussels, towards Leuven, Sterrebeek, Tervuren and so on. You will find us on your way because we already have about 40% of all night flights. During the weekends up to 70 % of the day flights have. In recent weeks, with the work that is going on, people realize that this will be a real nightmare for the Oostrand if this becomes the future take-off routes. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the platform is absolutely not representative, including the Oostrand in Brussels. In addition, there can be no question of relocating the airport's activities. I hope that the distribution plan will differ as little as possible from the Schouppe plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u26	Madam President, guaranteeing a minimum service requires a social dialogue at Belgocontrol level, within the framework of the Law of 21 March 1991 on the reform of certain autonomous public enterprises. After a period of preparation, the social dialogue was launched on 11 May 2015 and the issue was then discussed in one of the working groups that depend on the Joint Committee of Belgocontrol. Belgocontrol strives to finish by the end of September. On Mr Van Rompuy's question. I have already made it clear that there is no question of relocation of the airport. It's a crazy idea. The issue of night flights deserves a more in-depth analysis. I am working on a balanced solution between the well-being of local residents and the development of an important player in our economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u27	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I'm glad to hear that Belgocontrol's calls have started. Even though they were only started a month ago, in May, there is already a timing in which they want to finish in September. We look forward to the outcome of the working group on guaranteed services at Belgocontrol.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u28	I would like to thank the Minister for her reply and for guaranteeing that we do not operate according to the assumption that Zaventem airport should be closed down. You are facing an extremely difficult task, Madam Secretary. Several of your predecessors have been working on that dispersal plan. I can only advise you not to spread everyone in the same way everywhere. This leads to the fight against the historical routes and to the resistance of increasingly new people who feel more or less disturbed. This reminds me of what was experienced in the period Anciaux-Landuyt. I don't wish that on you. I am confident that you will look at this in an objective and serene manner, taking into account Belgocontrol and the traffic controllers. I've been following the file for 15 years. In time one must already take a course in Traffic Management in order to understand the discussions. That can't be the intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u29	Madam Minister, like many colleagues, on Thursday, May 28, I asked you about the electricity breakdown at Belgocontrol, which resulted in the closure of our airspace for more than five hours. Hundreds of flights were cancelled or delayed. Tens of thousands of passengers have remained in the dock. Above all, major security risks have been taken. We were lucky that nothing serious had happened. It must be noted that your first answers to the House on this serious incident have been particularly vague. You told us that you asked for a report, without even specifying that it is prescribed. Belgocontrol is required to report to the BSA (Belgium Supervisory Authority) within 72 hours of any security incident. It appears that an independent expert, called upon by Belgocontrol, concluded as early as the day after the incident: "Belgocontrol's equipment is recent and well maintained, and its concept cannot be called into question at this stage". The company further states that the electrical installation, which is about 10 years old, was certified by an approved body in June 2014. This certification is carried out every five years. Anyway, everything would be fine in the best of the worlds - and it's the fault of "no luck". Madam Minister, who is this expert commissioned by Belgocontrol? On what basis has this expertise been carried out? What is the approved organization that certified the Belgocontrol facilities in June 2014? Can we have the documents submitted by both the expert and the certification body? What are the conclusions of Belgocontrol's 72-hour report to the BSA? Can you make this report available to the House? Have you asked for an independent investigation of Belgocontrol and your administration – as I recall that the BSA is part of it – which must deal not only with Belgocontrol but also with the way in which the BSA certifies and validates security systems and procedures? If so, do you have the findings of this investigation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u30	Madam President, Minister, I will not repeat the introduction. We had a debate on this in plenary on 28 May, when you replied to the pressing questions which were topical at the time. In the meantime, you announced an investigation. You also said in that plenary that the electrical installation was the subject of certification by a recognised body and that this certification was valid for five years. The Royal Decree of 2 December 2011 on critical infrastructures in the sub-sector of air transport provides a framework for safeguarding vital functions and preventing incidents. The critical infrastructures are identified by you and Belgocontrol is not considered critical infrastructure. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions about this incident. Firstly, what is the estimated economic impact? What is the impact in terms of passengers and tonnage? What is the estimated cost of accommodating stranded travellers? I think it is very important in this story to consider the suffering of passengers in Zaventem or passengers on their way to Brussels. What is the estimated extent of the airlines' claims for damages? Secondly, is the lack of grounding due to a design error or to an error during the installation of the system? Was the award in accordance with the specifications? Thirdly, what acceptance tests were carried out on the emergency generators at the time of delivery? Was the resistance of the earth measured then? Fourthly, have problems with emergency generators been identified and detected in the past? That was the case. Is the validation and testing of the earthing part of the five-year certifications carried out by an inspection body? Fifth, do emergency exercises always happen at busy times during the day? Sixthly, what criteria are used to determine critical infrastructures in the field of aviation? Finally, how can we avoid such matters in the future? When will the plan of action be ready? Can you give us the broad lines of this plan of action today? My second question concerns in particular the claims for damages and the handling of that case. In the event of a significant delay in a flight, the disabled traveller shall have the right to information and assistance, the right to choose between a return flight to the original departure point or the refund of the ticket. If the air carrier is able to prove that the delay is due to exceptional circumstances, such delay obviously does not entitle it to compensation. Hence the following questions. Madam Secretary, what attitude do you take with regard to these claims? A number of airlines have announced this. Are there any precedents at home or abroad of compensation paid by air traffic controllers? Secondly, which parties already submitted claims to Belgocontrol and for what total amount? Thirdly, were passengers correctly informed and accompanied during and after the power surge by the airlines concerned? Fourthly, how many complaints did the Directorate-General for Aviation receive from the FPS Mobility and Transport in this respect? Finally, how many complaints did the Directorate-General receive regarding respectively flight delay, loss or damage of baggage, denied boarding, transfer, cancellation of a flight and persons with reduced mobility in 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u31	Madam President, Madam Minister, on May 28, I was asking you in plenary about the Belgocontrol power failure that took place the previous day. As a few questions have remained unanswered, I would like to return to you today. Minister, what was the total cost of the failure of Belgocontrol on May 27, 2015, both in terms of the economic impact and the compensation claimed, in particular that of the OTO grouping the various travel agencies? You announced an action plan in the aftermath of Belgocontrol's breakdown. What are the objectives? Can you share with us the various points that are part of this action plan and the corresponding timing? Finally, it was relayed in the press that all the aircraft were out of service at the time of the breakdown. How did the teams then find the planes still in the sky, guide them and do their work? With what means were they able to respond to this need at that time?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u32	Madam President, Minister, I believe that the subject has already been outlined in detail. It's about security and economic damage. I note, however, that the economic damage caused by this incident is raised slightly more than in the case of trade-union actions, but this is entirely on the side. It is a dangerous precedent that such things occur in one of Europe's most complex airspaces. We must therefore go to the essence. I have some very specific questions. Can you give us a detailed account of the facts? Has there been an evacuation of airspace? How was this organised? Can you give us a look at the number of planes that could be evacuated? In the meantime, it has been confirmed in the press that there were reports of so-called blank screens in the air traffic controllers during the weeks and months prior to the incident. The light goes out for a few seconds. This problem was addressed. How was this resolved in concrete terms? The cause of the breakdown was an overload via a non-earthed emergency generator. Are there any inspection reports of that? Have any comments been made on this? Your predecessor replied to me in the previous legislature that a safety case was prepared for the CANAC 2 system and that audits were carried out by the Belgian Supervisory Authority. In what way have the principles of this safety case been violated in the context of this problem? This would mean that we would have to look again at a number of issues. Is there permanent damage to the system? How should we deal with this in the following days, weeks and months? Is it true that Belgocontrol did not allow telephone communication, with the exception of a supervisor phone? How were the other towers and ANSPs notified? Will there again be mobile phones available with paper phone lists for emergencies in the future? After all, I understand that was also a problem. Finally, it is true that Dutch air traffic controllers, for example, have reserve systems in the field of radio communications. These may be systems with an old technology, but they will continue to work if things really go wrong. In this way one can communicate with the aircraft in the air. Will these systems also be reinstalled with us? I look forward to your comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u33	Mr Yüksel, my questions are always very short. Minister, can you explain to us the specific causes of the breakdowns? Have any responsibilities been identified? Are measures taken to ensure that the emergency system is available in the future? What process are you putting in place to ensure that the necessary is accomplished? As the appropriate minister, are you going to ask for the verification of all electrical backup systems in public undertakings such as those of the SNCB Group?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u34	Chers collégues, the electricity supply of the Belgocontrol control centre was interrupted on Wednesday 27 May at 09:15 during the monthly review of the emergency power supply. The control towers operated on another system and weren't hit. The procedure foreseen in such circumstances was initiated immediately. The approaching aircraft were thus able to land and aircraft in the airspace managed by Belgocontrol could be quickly diverted to the neighbouring countries, in full safety. The safety distances of nine kilometres horizontally and three hundred metres vertically have always been respected during the diversion of flights to empty airspace. The BSA was formally notified of the incident within 72 hours, in accordance with the regulations. The purpose of this notification is to describe the incident and to present the first corrective actions. The Supervisory Authority then kept constantly informed of developments. A preliminary report on the causes of the incident was finalized by an external expert. The final version is still expected. A second external expert has also been appointed. Secondly, with regard to the re-establishment of operations. Belgocontrol immediately made every effort to identify the causes of the problem, to find a solution to it and to restart the affected systems as soon as the situation allowed it. From 14:00 onwards, operational systems could be gradually put into service. Wednesday night, the center turned at 75% of its capacity. The control centre operated 100 per cent of its capacity again on Sunday, 21 May, at 10 p.m. As far as emergency exercises are concerned. The monthly reviews of the emergency power groups were planned during the day, among other things because there is less activity at night and therefore less electricity is needed. By performing the tests during the day, Belgocontrol simulates the most demanding conditions. This is not unusual in the sector; other air traffic control centres also test during the day. After the incident, Belgocontrol commissioned Laborelec as an external expert to support it with the technical analysis of the problem encountered. This technical analysis quickly identified the causes of the incident, a combination of three factors: the monthly verification of emergency generators, an electrical failure of the cooling system and the absence of grounding of the emergency generator neutral. This emergency generator connection problem was likely to have existed since the electrical installation about ten years ago. It only occurred when these three factors combined. The electrical installation has been verified and certified several times since its installation. The ongoing technical analysis will have to provide more clarity on the responsibilities of the various actors involved. The screen problems to which Mr Wollants refers concern defective graphics cards of a few control screens of the Brussels control tower. These problems have absolutely nothing to do with the incident and have since been resolved. A second counter-expert has been appointed with regard to the independent investigation. In addition to the analysis of technical causes by an external expert, the Independent Aviation Accident and Incident Investigation Unit (AAII) was tasked with investigating the Belgocontrol incident. This unit is functionally independent of the Directorate-General for Air Transport and Belgocontrol, and in general of any other party whose interests may conflict with the mission entrusted to it. The exclusive objective of this cell is to prevent future accidents or incidents in air navigation by identifying the causes. Design schemes for electrical installations, certification reports and the external expert's report will be made available to Belgocontrol's aviation accident and incident investigation body. The IIAA report will be made public, but no deadline is confirmed. As far as the damage is concerned, the electrical problem at the Belgocontrol air traffic control centre has led to very important economic consequences for the whole sector in addition to inconvenience for passengers. I regret it bitterly. Various amounts are put forward in the press but I am not in a position to confirm or invalidate them. Disruptions in air navigation and airport services have already occurred in neighbouring countries, but I am not aware of a precedent for payment of compensation by the air navigation service provider. As regards the compensation provided for in the European rules for delays or cancellations of flights, the obligations of air carriers should be limited as these delays and cancellations are due to extraordinary circumstances which could not have been avoided, even if all reasonable measures had been taken by carriers. With regard to the action plan, I asked Belgocontrol to draw up an action plan to learn from the crisis, an extraordinary board of directors had an opportunity to discuss it. In the short term, Belgocontrol is reviewing its entire electrical installation to ensure that no further damage is caused. Belgocontrol will then conduct an external audit of all its critical systems in order to assess the risks and take the necessary action. Now, Madam President, in relation to your questions about the SNCB group, Infrabel has a leading-edge expertise that has been universally recognized in the field of electricity, an essential component of the Belgian rail network for decades. Moreover, security is the first priority of Infrabel, a priority declined at all levels of enterprise and in all of its activities, so in particular for the management of the components of the Belgian infrastructure linked to electricity supply. Finally, the recent problem of unloading leads Infrabel to strengthen its analysis of the impacts of this type of incident on the railway network, which further strengthens its expertise in this field. Infrabel also participates in various exchanges with the Belgian authorities on this subject and wishes to continue to be involved at all levels in the decision-making process on the subject. Infrabel makes every effort to ensure the absolute safety of all Belgian railway infrastructure, including the parameters related to electricity supply and management.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It's still a rather surreal story both about how it happened and of course about the consequences that are known, I'm not going to repeat. The fact is, and you confirm, that the lack of grounding obviously dates from the start of the installation, I repeat, which calls into question the way in which Belgocontrol's equipment has been certified from the beginning, but also throughout the course, since it is a continuous certification process. Yet you did not speak about it once, you absolutely did not answer this question. You're focusing on an investigation and an analysis of Belgocontrol, of course, but for me it's not enough. It is also necessary to analyse and clearly investigate the way in which certifications and controls via the BSA are carried out, to ensure that all measures are taken successively and that all safety conditions are absolutely respected. I have already told you, but I am insisting once again on this point, because clearly there are shortcomings which are not acceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u36	I thank the Minister for her comprehensive and very detailed reply. Of course, a lot of things still have to be cleared up. On behalf of my group, I would like to clarify once again that this is really unacceptable, Madam Minister. It is really bad for the image of Brussels as a European capital, of this country and of the aviation sector. We must do everything we can to avoid such situations in the future. It's up to you to accompany that, too. I have two specific questions. When are we gonna get that final report? You cannot say anything about this at the moment, but it is necessary that you can give a timing for that. Secondly, you did not say anything about the action plan. I would like you to increase the pressure at Belgocontrol so that it comes out with an action plan. It is high season at the moment, and we have every interest in putting it right. Mr Wollants spoke just now about the economic damage. This is a very important aspect, including for travellers. The high season started yesterday and today 40,000 people left on vacation. We must treat the aviation sector in Brussels and Zaventem as an economic priority. You said in your reply that there are figures circulating about the damage. When you're done with the full report, it's important to get a look at the economic damage. There has been a great deal of damage for airlines and also for customers. You say this was inevitable, it is an extraordinary circumstance. Air carriers and passengers cannot claim compensation. Let me get this straight. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u37	Minister, thank you for your response and for the details of the economic cost and the action plan. I have the same request as my colleague regarding the timing of the availability of the analysis report. I would also like to know whether the action plan discussed in the Management Board will be available to the members of the Commission or published through other channels. Ideally, this would be the case by the time of the 8 July visit. It would be very useful if we could have the action plan and report before making this visit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u38	I will read the answer in detail, because a lot of questions have been asked. This must never happen again. The fact that it has never happened on that scale makes it the first and last time. Everyone's convinced of that, I think. I am very aware of the economic damage. I invite everyone to read our vision document on aviation. I have just made an appeal to all my fellow Members. It was intended to make it clear that, if it is not a technical failure, but an action with the same result, the same costs and the same consequences for travellers and businesses, we must condemn them at least as strongly. With this clarification, everyone knows the direction in which that statement should be put. Madam Secretary, we're gonna follow it up anyhow. From this incident, which is still weakly expressed, we need to learn every lesson we can pull out. At the same time, we need to look for all possible problems that would still be in the system. Zaventem is the seat of Fabec, the seat of what is happening in the heart of Europe around aviation. We need to set an example. We have the know-how, we have a technical school that may one day be profitable. Let us not throw our name through these kinds of incidents. We have to do everything we can to get everything back on track, as it should be.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u39	Minister, as my colleagues have said, we know the damage to the airlines, the reputation and the customers of the airlines. Colleagues, as requested, hearings in this regard will be held in this committee when the audits are completed. We will ask for the action plan and all the new processes. Indeed, minister, I believe that new processes must be put in place to ensure that this does not happen again, whether in this way or in another way. The month of September will already be very busy for our committee. We will also program Belgocontrol because we imagine that the audits will be back. As President, Mr Vanden Burre, I can tell you that Belgocontrol's visit is completely dissociated from this problem. The questions that will then be asked during our visit on 8 July 2015 will concern the operation of Belgocontrol in a global way and not this problem. I will be present during the visit and will not fail to remind all the members, since in September we will have a meeting with the managing director of Belgocontrol, with the minister, according to what will be organized and, if necessary, with the chairman of the board of directors of Belgocontrol. I would like to see respect for what has been said in Belgocontrol and in this committee in relation to the order of business. Indeed, for those who do not take part in this visit, this debate must be public and open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u40	Madam Secretary, do you have any insight into the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u41	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u42	Does this mean that we have to wait for the report before the action plan can be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u43	I can tell you I'm putting pressure on Belgocontrol. After the SNCB group, Belgocontrol will also have to be reorganised. Indeed, there have been many errors in management. Today, we realize that the system has failed since it was installed. If there are real responsibilities involved, you should know that decisions will be taken. As far as the action plan is concerned, Belgocontrol must have access to all expert reports, all audits in order to be able to work calmly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u44	I understand that this is not the purpose of the visit, but we cannot dissociate the overall operation of a company from an incident such as the one in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u45	Mr Vanden Burre, there is no question of having a debate on the subject. The committee unanimously decided to dissociate the two subjects. There is therefore no question of having a debate on this incident because this debate will not be public when it must be public. In addition, we do not have the necessary documents. Am I clear?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u46	That's very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u47	I would like to draw attention here to the fact that it is not the majority who is speaking here but the committee that I like to see respected what the Commission has decided, particularly with regard to our public enterprises. Otherwise a visit would not be reprogrammed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u48	I just wanted to point out that we must not be blind and take into account what happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u49	We'll see how things are going!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u50	Question No 4696 by Mr Burton, which does not happen, is transformed into a written question. Question No 4721 by Mrs Matz was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u51	Madam President, Minister, this question concerns the monitoring of uninsured vehicles. The annual report of the group of approved vehicles and driving licences shows that there is a decrease in the number of uninsured vehicles, and that is good. In 2013, 8 345 vehicles were found without a valid insurance certificate on board and in 2014 this number fell to just five thousand. This reduction is, of course, positive, while we have to recognise that 2% of drivers are driving without adequate insurance. However, in the annual report we also note that the list of vehicles that drive uninsured is transferred to the FPS Mobility and Transport and to the Belgian Joint Guarantee Fund for the necessary follow-up. We wonder how this succession happens. It is important to encourage offenders to put their insurance in order and to ensure that we live in an ideal world in which everyone is insured. Madam Secretary, what exactly does this follow-up system mean? The lists will be delivered to you on a regular basis. How are we supposed to interpret that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u52	Madam President, Minister, I naturally agree with Mr Dumery's questions. I would also refer to the figures recently given in reply to a written question from Mr Yüksel, which shows that the number of uninsured vehicles that were driven at the time of the inspection would have fallen from 8 345 vehicles to 5 000 vehicles in November 2014 in one year. However, the annual report of the Belgian Joint Guarantee Fund shows that 13 Belgians face a collision with an uninsured vehicle every day. It is therefore possible, or perhaps even possible, that these vehicles are not in order with the inspection. According to the employees of the Belgian Common Guarantee Fund, the number of uninsured cars does not decrease, as opposed to the figures that seem to indicate a decrease. Madam Minister, there are still some problems and there is still work to be done to deal with the problem and I have the following questions. How do you estimate the problem of uninsured driving? Is there an improvement or not? How do you evaluate the action plan, as has just been mentioned? I am referring to the verification of the proof of insurance of the inspection, a measure introduced a few years ago. Do you think there are a lot of uninsured cars driving around that don't go to the inspection? Are these data linked to each other by linking up certain databases? What is your vision of the future in relation to uninsured driving? Are additional measures needed and, if so, what? Finally, what do you think of the idea of having convicted offenders make a contribution to the Belgian Common Guarantee Fund rather than to the Fund to help victims of intentional acts of violence and to occasional rescuers, to the FPS Justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u53	Madam President, Minister, I agree with what has already been said and would like to add the following. On 1 November 2013, almost two years ago, the measure was introduced to verify the validity of a vehicle insurance during the technical inspection. In a written reply from you to a written question at the beginning of December 2014, you indicated that no valid green insurance card could be submitted 81 498 times in the period from November 2013 to September 2014. A few weeks ago, a more recent figure appeared in the media, in particular 92 553 infringements in the period from November 2013 to November 2014. What happens if a valid green card is not identified at the time of the inspection? This is then stated on the certificate of inspection and the Belgian Common Guarantee Fund is informed. Of course, it is always possible that you are insured, but that due to an error or negligence on the part of the driver or the insurance broker the proof cannot be presented immediately. You said that in order to assess the effectiveness of the measure that entered into force on 1 November 2013, an administrative working group would follow this measure and that, depending on its results, it would be decided whether or not to adjust it. In December 2014, you said that this evaluation would be carried out on the basis of the statistics, one year after the entry into force of this measure. For example, you would receive an opinion on whether or not to retain or modify this measure. Madam Secretary, I have the following specific questions. Firstly, are all the categories included in the figures I have quoted? Could you possibly provide us with a breakdown by category? Secondly, is a database being developed so that one can verify in real time whether a vehicle is indeed insured? Thirdly, is the evaluation of the measure now complete? If so, what is the outcome?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u54	Madam President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, the results of the action plan for compliance with the insurance and inspection obligation should not be considered on the basis of the number of uninsured vehicles. As I will explain further, on the one hand, time is needed to implement all the measures. On the other hand, the effect of such measures will only become apparent in the statistics in the long term. The Action Plan is a very useful policy document because it has collected all the actors involved. This will continue, so that there will be a common and coherent fight. In addition to the measures agreed in the Action Plan, several actors have also taken additional measures internally. As a result, for example, the quality of data in the insurance sector and the increased efficiency of control have increased significantly. The Action Plan contains several effective measures. For example, important improvements have been made in the exchange of data between the different services. Controls have been extended to automatic devices whose roll-out is still ongoing. Since November 2013, the technical inspection stations have been checking the valid insurance certificate. I will give you a copy of the total number of vehicles for which there is no valid green insurance card. Through this inspection in the inspection stations, the Belgian Joint Guarantee Fund has an additional channel to track uninsured vehicles. This means that the database transmitted to the police services will be expanded. Persons who are unable to submit a valid contract in the inspection are likely to settle themselves immediately afterwards in order to avoid entering the database. Moreover, the measure has a deterrent effect because drivers experience control. This control demonstrates the great importance of compulsory insurance to the public. On the basis of the infringements detected by the police, we can conclude that about 36% of vehicles without a valid insurance certificate also have no certificate of approval. The ways in which insurance contracts are created do not allow such a real-time data file. The procedure cannot be amended as such. In this sense, it is the responsibility of the Minister for Economic Affairs. Indeed, the action plan has not yet been fully developed. I have therefore instructed my administration to continue the work. This will further improve the quality of data. In addition, a large-scale information campaign is planned by the BIVV. I am pleased that the regions are cooperating so that compliance with the inspection obligation is further monitored and integrated into the same information campaign. I would also point out that the extension of the registration requirement to mopeds will allow better controls for that category of vehicle. Finally, it appears that the insurance obligation is not always properly respected by the professional transport sector. That is why the Road Transport Control Service of my administration will carry out more checks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u55	Madam Secretary, thank you for your very full reply. I am particularly surprised to hear that you will continue not only the action plan but also the accompanying measures and that you will be driving an information campaign, involving the Regions in the allocation of competences in this area. I think they will certainly be prepared to support you in continuing this campaign.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u56	Madam Minister, I too would like to thank you for your reply. We will certainly follow up on this, because we must try to eradicate uninsured driving. If there is a good link between the vehicles and the insurance databases and the inspections, this must be feasible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u57	Madam Minister, thank you for the detailed figures that we have received. I noticed that the number of trucks and tractors for which a valid card could not be presented has increased compared to 2013-2014. Then there were about 2 700, now there are already 3 200. It is incredible that for such heavy vehicles the insurance certificate is not always in order. So the work isn't finished yet, but we'll get there step by step.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u58	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs De Coninck converted 4765 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u59	Madam President, Madam Minister, I would like to address a very topical issue. I've taken note of what's in Le Soir today. Mrs Fonck called for the canal route to be cleared for night flights. I have the impression that certain people are chasing others and that political competitors are trying to keep each other in a stranglehold. Madam Secretary, the fact is that there is work going on on the runway and that this has an effect on the way aircraft land and take off. Aircraft are more distracted to the North and the East Edge. This old, difficult file is re-emerging and it has never led to the unisono suing of an excessive concentration of aircraft noise, at night and during the day, by the municipalities of the Noordrand.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u60	The same applies to the Oostrand.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u61	In this respect, we are in the same boat this time. I have a few clear questions, Madam Secretary. Do you intend to respond to the sighs of the various mayors of all political tendencies for a fair distribution during the works? What measures do you wish to take in this regard? Do you think it is possible to re-use the channel route and turn to the left of the former Wathelet plan during the work? Can you give an update on your efforts to arrive at a definitive and structural solution? I believe that other parties have made a wise proposal for a flight law. I hope you can announce that that law is coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u62	Madam President, Mr Bonte, the work on runway 25L/07R of the Brussels national airport, which is necessary for security reasons, takes place at different stages. During the first phase, which is in progress, runway 19 is more used for take-off and runway 25R for landing compared to the normal condition. During the second and third stages, runway 25R will be more used both to take off and to charge. Those changes relative to the normal flight schedule will have an impact on variable zones, depending on the different phases. There can therefore be no reference to a concentration in a single zone. During the work, the flight routes will not be changed. However, as a result of the moratorium, the channel route to the southeast and the route with wide bend to the left of the Wathelet plan no longer exists. With regard to the structural solution, I can tell you that I am working on it, including through the initiation of various studies, in order to have all the objective elements available.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u63	Madam Minister, should I have the time to do so, I could respond extensively to what you are replying to. Disappointment prevails, especially on my last demand for a structural solution and structural adjustment. Moreover, it is a majority party which strongly urges a rapid legislative initiative to lay down the principles of the distribution plan, and in my opinion that is a sensible suggestion to which we would also like to contribute from the opposition. You say in your reply that the channel route and the turn to the left as a route no longer exist, so they are no longer used. My question was precisely to re-use those routes as a result of the works. Actually, you're saying they don't want to use those routes. That will undoubtedly not calm the moods in the East Rand, nor in the North Rand, I suppose. My political analysis is that you would like to respond to Mrs Fonck's criticism, which seems to once again engages in the fight for voters in the Brussels-Capital Region, albeit with regard to the viability of a region which must ensure a balance between the economic strength of the airport and the environmental problems, in order not to strengthen the pleas to relocate the airport. Madam Secretary, I will certainly return to the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u64	Madam President, Madam Minister, I asked you a question a few weeks ago about whether or not to use the high-speed line to connect Tournai with Brussels by train. Following your answer, I would like to make some clarifications and corrections. First of all, let me tell you that the study by a working group on the use of the high-speed line (LGV) for the Tournai-Brussels routes did not "finish a negative conclusion". Indeed, some elements are to be nuanced. First, the issue of capacity on LGV1 is not a major problem. Indeed, the insertion of an IC furrow on this line would require the use of 1.5 to 2 high-speed train furrows. Apart from the price of this trail, SNCB indicated that the insertion of such a trail on the LGV was not particularly problematic given the current traffic. Moreover, the number of high-speed relationships on the line will not be able to increase drastically in the medium to long term given the saturation of the North-Midi junction. Existing capacity reserves will therefore persist. Secondly, SNCB currently has rolling stock capable of rolling at 200 km/h: this is type 18 rolling stock. This material is currently used for relations between Eupen and Ostend and Welkenraedt to Kortrijk, which use the high-speed line between Liège and Brussels. It can therefore be assumed that in terms of speed, this equipment would also be able to ride on our line. On the other hand, these trains are not equipped with adequate signalling. After what I have just put forward as arguments, I am surprised that the study on the high-speed line project between Tournai and Brussels has led to a "negative conclusion". I think this is a real opportunity to improve the lives of many users who see their journey times to go to work increase from year to year. Minister, what are you responding to the statements I have just made? Is it really not possible to consider using a high-speed line to connect Tournai to Brussels?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u65	Dear colleague, I can only confirm the answer I gave you on 6 May. Driving a train here at 200 km/h on the high-speed line occupies more capacity than a high-speed train at 300 km/h. This undermines the ability for any additional high-speed trains. In addition, SNCB does not have sufficient I11 cars to be assigned to a larger number of trains. Given the negative conclusion of the study, SNCB does not wish to establish IC relations between Tournai and Brussels via the high-speed line.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u66	Minister, I take note of your answer even though I am not necessarily happy with it. I would also like to thank you for the concrete work you have done in the field of the station in terms of cleanliness. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u67	Madam President, I would ask you to answer my question. This is a very technical question and Mr Cassart is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u68	Minister, a few weeks ago, we learned through the free media in our country that your proposal to amend the train delay compensation system was under discussion. The announced system seemed to provide for the elimination of compensation for passengers whose train was between 15 minutes and 30 minutes late. With the application of the new compensation system, the number of trains that could open up a right to compensation was drastically reduced. Under the guise of simplification, it was an infringement of travellers' rights. Madam Minister, we learn again through the press that you would have returned to this decision to re-establish the 15 minute threshold. If that is the case, it is good news, but you will understand that I am not content with what I am reading, I would like to know what is really happening. In the face of this contradictory information about the threshold for compensation, what really has the Council of Ministers been discussing today? In concrete terms, what are the approaches currently being studied by SNCB to optimise and facilitate the award of compensation to which the injured traveller is legitimately entitled, as well as to reduce the administrative cost of awarding compensation? This is an element of the debate which is often repeated by Mr Cornu. What are the ways to limit the use of fraud? Another news article reported that it had become a form of national sport to use this system for unspeakable purposes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u69	A working group is currently evaluating possible alternatives and their possible impact.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u70	Thank you for that clarification, minister. I will return to the burden, perhaps on the occasion of the preparation of the management contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u71	Madam President, Minister, today only folding bicycles often used by commuters to get to their workplaces are allowed free of charge on trains. We can only rejoice. However, this is not the case for traditional bicycles used for example by hikers. Indeed, as reflected in SNCB's tariff policy, they are asked to pay a specific ticket, the price of which, especially if you wish to travel as a group or as a family, rather pushes you to use the car. However, I think an attractive offer could encourage amateur cyclists to use the train to travel to rural areas to indulge in the joys of the race. This would also make it possible to attract more travellers on low-speed routes, especially on weekends and during school holidays. Madam Minister, would it not be appropriate, in order for more amateur cyclists to decide to opt for the train, to propose a more attractive formula accompanied by a framework to limit the possible negative effects in the head of the SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, the SNCB is offering various advantageous arrangements for the boarding of bicycles on board the train: free of charge for folding bicycles, 5 euros for the boarding of an ordinary bicycle on a single journey with a bicycle card and 8 euros for the boarding of an ordinary bicycle all day long, i.e. the free journey for a day. SNCB does not consider it appropriate to further reduce the boarding rate of a regular bicycle or to make it free, for the following reasons. The introduction of new equipment and the renovation of existing equipment systematically allow space for bicycles on board trains. Nevertheless, capacity still varies from line to line and depending on the period. As a result, a general promotion for the boarding of bicycles on the train does not seem desirable. One of SNCB's top priorities is to improve punctuality. The loading of bicycles on the train results, by definition, in additional operations. The more additional operations, the greater the risk of damaging punctuality. Various attractive alternatives for boarding bicycles on board the train are also offered. SNCB offers shared bicycles in stations in collaboration with Blue-mobility. The product B-excursion train + bike rental allows the SNCB to offer a combined formula including the travel by return train and the rental of a tourist bike at one of the bike rental points, concept in collaboration with different bike points and two private renters of mountain bikes. All these rental points are located in or near our stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u73	Madam Minister, I thank you and will certainly come back with different assumptions to show SNCB that it is possible to encourage this type of formula on certain lines. I have no doubt that for those heading for the North Sea, such operations are impossible as they lengthen the time for embarkation and disembarkation. In any case, such possibilities can be combined on rural lines, for example with the Ravel network that runs along the railway lines in Wallonia. So I'll come back to you to help you convince SNCB to find the winning formulas.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u74	Minister, in response to the benchmarking study by the Director General of SNCB, Jo Cornu, the CGSP Chemots expressed its concerns about maintaining employment in this public company. According to the union, the findings of the last similar analysis conducted in 2003 had led to a massive reduction in the number of workers to 32,000. With this new study, the CGSP is concerned about the loss of an additional 2,700 jobs. At the same time, and surprisingly enough, the SNCB reminds its recently retired train attendants to offer them to work for an additional three months half-time. According to the railway undertaking, this exceptional measure would aim to deal with a lack of support staff. Is there a massive risk of job loss within the SNCB? Do you confirm the figures put forward by CGSP regarding the loss of 2,700 jobs? According to the draft social agreement, the minimum number of SNCB staff is set at 37,000 full-time equivalents. What about today? According to trade unions, the company has already increased to a lower figure of 34,700. Do you confirm these figures? What about a possible removal of the minimum ceiling? Would SNCB intend to redundancies, even though it recalls its young pensioners to compensate for a shortage of staff, particularly for accompanying staff? Minister, what is your position on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u75	Madam Minister, many articles on the benchmark have recently been published. According to what I read, there might be 100 million euros in efficiency gains. The figures on the excess numbers of railmen have already been quoted. Can you explain the benchmark in Parliament? We have already read a part of it in the press, but of course we do not know whether it is correct. What measures will be implemented in the short term? Among other things, there was talk of an increase in the ticket price and a reduction in the lane fee, as well as an increase in subscription formulas. What are the consequences for staff and passengers? What is the budgetary impact of measures that can be taken in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u76	Much introduction has already been given. There is a movement at SNCB, at Infrabel, and you, as Minister, are working hard on a modernisation plan. The question is how can we all reconcile that? After all, measures are already being put forward today, without them being part of a larger plan, and that is something that must be borne in mind. The presentation of the benchmark study cycled through the presentation of the audits of the subsidiaries. Madam Minister, can you explain the purpose and design of the benchmark study? Do you use the benchmark study yourself for the design of the modernisation plan? What will SNCB effectively do with the results? What is the added value of the study compared to a previous study carried out in 2003, at the time at the initiative of Mr Vinck? The results are very similar. We have already discussed the modernisation plan this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u77	Madam Minister, about a month ago Mr Cornu announced the results of a comparative benchmark study by McKinsey between SNCB and other comparable European train operators. Some notable figures were discussed in the media. For each kilometre travelled, an additional cost of 8 % would be incurred by SNCB. Ticket sales revenues are on average 52% lower. The same kilometres are driven by 21 % more drivers and 24 % more escorts. There are also 13 % fewer passengers per station. The trains would also be slower than abroad. Madam Secretary, could you explain the benchmark study? What lessons can be learnt from the study in the short term? How will you incorporate this into your plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u78	Madam President, SNCB has indeed made an international comparison with similar operators in order to identify its structure of charges and revenues. The aim of this study is to enable SNCB to have a repository before embarking on a large-scale operation to improve its financial performance. According to SNCB, the McKinsey consultant conducted this benchmarking study. The choice of a third party was, according to SNCB, indispensable, since the confidentiality and anonymity of the data communicated by operators who might become competitors in the context of liberalisation had to be guaranteed. The study is based on the open book principle and analyses confidential data. In order to maintain the confidentiality of such data under competition law, the identity of the operators is not communicated and the data are processed anonymously. At a press conference on 28 May and in a press release, SNCB reported the main results. The synthesis report containing the main results of this study will not be published. The measures that SNCB will effectively implement are being developed. It is more than likely that this will be a broad set of measures on which it is premature to extend today, particularly in the area of personnel. In any event, SNCB does not intend to proceed with redundancies. When Mr Geerts refers to EUR 100 million in efficiency gains, it does not just mean that SNCB costs higher than the average of our neighbouring countries. It is also the amount to be taken out of the costs of barely reaching the average of, moreover, similar rail operators in the benchmark. Indeed, the results of the benchmark carried out are in line with previously implemented benchmarks. Since 2003, SNCB and the other railway operators have evolved. It is therefore useful to check regularly for 12 years that the company is in the area of income and cost structure compared to other railway operators around us. I can confirm that HR Rail faces the same difficulties as other employers in filling jobs that are in short supply, especially in technical occupations. HR Rail's problem with filling vacancies for train attendants is new. The decrease in the percentage of success can be explained by various reasons: candidates for this profession must have sufficient knowledge of the second national language and a strong motivation. They will have to make the necessary efforts for more than four months to complete the success of the training, as well as to cope with the sometimes heavy journeys to the work place and irregular working hours. In some young people, however, there is often a lack of maturity which they must have in order to exercise their profession properly and safely, from the first day. Thus, short-term measures have been taken to meet the needs. These include intervention, the supervision of train attendants in the train service, the adaptation of certain existing services and the distribution of continuing training over time. The offer of contractual contracts to retired train attendants is also part of these measures. These attendants will work for a specified period of time, a few days a week.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u79	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. So you say there will be no massive dismissal. I was referring to the figure of 2,700 layoffs. If we are not in this range, can you tell me beyond what figure mass dismissal is possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u80	There won't be any!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u81	Very clearly, there will be none! As for the minimum number of SNCB staff, which is set at 37,000 full-time equivalents, do you have any updated information in this regard? No? I shall therefore come back to this matter at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u82	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. We can only try to get the documents, so that we can debate better rather than rely solely on newspaper articles. If EUR 100 million in efficiency gains can be made, the question arises as to where the other EUR millions will be found in the entire savings plan. There is talk of EUR 100 million and you say there will be no naked redundancies. I can only conclude from this that any additional effort has an impact on staff, on quality, supply and services to travellers. That is why that amount is an important number for me. It is good that benchmarking is used at regular intervals. I fear that the additional savings you announced in the coalition agreement will cause a catastrophe.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u83	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. What Mr Geerts is referring to is a debate that we will have to hold when everything is on the table. We are, of course, looking forward to the time when things will be on the table and we will be able to have that debate. It is indeed a good thing that a benchmark is made on a regular basis. I did not submit this question in writing, but does Infrabel have such benchmarks? After all, it would be interesting to know from Infrabel the amount of efficiency gains that the company can achieve.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u84	Minister, as part of the implementation of the moratorium, you have, at Belgocontrol's request, carried out a review of the list of aircraft with a count quota of less than or equal to 4, allowing night flights to be distributed during the week on the Chièvres beacon between the ring roads and the canal roads. You acted as required by the government agreement and as required by the July 31 order. While we were waiting for you to come and offer us a structural solution to the problem of airport-related noise nuisances as provided for in the government agreement, what was not our surprise when we learned that you were revising this famous list a few months after changing it. Obviously, you are redrafting this famous list because according to the residents of the Noordrand and according to the Flemish parties of your coalition, the result of the application of this list does not correspond to their conception of the moratorium, that is, a return to the situation which prevailed on 5 February 2014 and which was more favourable to them. In the meantime, a NOTAM has been published and entered into force on 19 June 2014 and it must be noted that, on the basis of the records of aircraft registrations, prior to the publication of this NOTAM, for night-to-week flights on the Chièvres beacon, nine out of ten aircraft were on the ring and one in ten aircraft were on the canal. Conversely, after the NOTAM of June 19, 2014, nine out of ten aircraft were sent to the canal while one in ten aircraft were sent to the ring. They are night planes flying between three and five o'clock in the morning, either from DHL or from DHL subcontractors. What you are doing is meeting the unilateral demands of Flanders. You are changing the moratorium in a way that is favourable to less densely populated areas, such as the Noordrand, and unfavourable to the most densely populated area of the canal. So you are doing exactly the opposite of what is provided for in the government agreement, which calls for the overflight of less densely populated areas. In my view, it is even more serious that you further remove the structural solution that you are responsible for proposing. By giving Noordrand satisfaction outside the structural solution, even before the start of the negotiation, you are depriving yourself of an essential lever. If the Flemish parties were satisfied with their demands before any negotiations, do you think for a moment that we will still be able to negotiate a structural agreement and that everyone will be able to make concessions? For my part, I have no doubt! You thus move the nuisances of the Noordrand towards the canal, and therefore the structural solution to which we must arrive, however, becomes improbable and unrealistic. The question of revising the list is therefore not a technical issue of minor importance, it is of paramount importance. If this list is now revised in the direction of a transfer of nuisances from the ring to the canal, you are undermining the capacity of a structural solution for the benefit of the Brussels people and the moratorium, which by definition was to be temporary, will become definitive, which is totally unacceptable. Minister, I have been waiting since my question was tabled and I await your explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u85	Madam Chair, Minister, on May 6, we debated the amendment to the list of authorized aircraft on the canal. In the wake of the moratorium on the Wathelet Plan, this list has been updated to effectively apply the limit of the maximum count quota of 4, which had been decided since the creation of the Onkelinx Road in 2003, but not properly applied by all your predecessors, including Ms. Fonck and Mr. Wathelet. This decision, which was positive for Brussels, had caused the residents and political representatives of the Noordrand to react, including in this committee, which is quite understandable. They were flown over 80 additional aircraft at night, previously flying over the canal. You replied to me in committee on 6 May that you had instructed Belgocontrol and the Directorate-General for Air Transport (DGTA) "to update this list, first taking into account compliance with the quota count and then including all types of compliant aircraft operating in Brussels-National". The L'Echo newspaper announced the day I wrote the question, that this change requested from Belgocontrol and DGTA will again increase the number of aircraft flying over the canal at night. I live in the city centre, but I'm in solidarity with the Noordrand. I think their reaction was legitimate, but the return of the big carriers on the channel is not a solution! Nor is it a solution to send them back to the Noordrand. This is an aberration, both in environmental terms and in terms of safety. What would be the consequences in the event of an accident on the canal road, where are Seveso companies? You are told by the former President of the Port of Brussels. Let me remind you that the area of the canal is heavily populated. According to the ULB's study, this road overflew 392,344 people within a radius of 20km! It makes sense to find the most densely populated areas of the capital and the country. It's time to stop sending planes back from one area to another. The only solution is therefore the application of the environmental night, from 10 p.m. to 7 a.m., which was the subject of another question. Do you confirm the information published by L'Echo at the time and Le Soir today? Can you assure me that the quota limit count 4 will be respected on the channel in the future? How many more aircraft will now be allowed to fly over the canal at night? Can you specify their category (small, medium and large carriers)?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u86	Madam President, Minister, on 6 May we had a debate on the correct application of the nighttime use of the channel route for aircraft with a QC smaller or equal to 4. Contrary to what I have just heard, it is not about an incorrect application in the past. We have, however, found that the changes to the Aeronautical Information Publication (AIP) of 2 April have resulted in a shift of devices that have gone from the channel to the ring route without effectively meeting the conditions. That is to say, they had a QC that was effectively lower than 4 and unduly shifted to the Ring Route. You replied that Belgocontrol and DGLV did indeed use the implementation of the moratorium to update the list. This resulted in the use of purely theoretical criteria and not the practice of the aircraft as they are. It was about the maximum possible QC that they could emit per model regardless of the engine that was on the aircraft in question. This leads to few results. In this sense, the 2010 Airport Agreement was correctly implemented. This was approved by many people present and questioners through their party, being in the Flemish Government as an opinion on the preliminary draft law or the airport agreement in the federal government. It is important that we take a close look at what is in that agreement and that we follow it as much as possible. We have that stability today. In that sense, I agree with Mr Van Rompuy. I would like to ask a number of questions about exactly what is in the article by Mr Echo. I have the impression that you are calling in particular for the agreement to be followed and implemented as far as possible because there was a majority in favour of that agreement across all parties. Can you confirm that changes have been made to the quoted list of devices allowed to follow the channel route at night? Can you indicate how the adjustments have been implemented in practice and what the consequences are on the ground?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u87	I'm going to close this set of questions, minister. It is clear that L'Echo and Le Soir have awakened questions. It's not just because I live there, but I'm just on the canal road, and so I speak on behalf of many Laekenois. Even if they do not meet in very noisy committees, they are still subject to aircraft. As you know, this area is densely populated. They say the canal area, but it's for fun! The channel is not very wide. The houses are very numerous along the canal. It is one of the most densely populated areas in Brussels. Do you confirm the information of the Evening and the Echo? Have you sent a request to Belgocontrol and DGTA to review this list for aircraft on this canal route? What final decisions have been taken on this issue? What are the expected consequences in terms of the number of flights, the quota count of aircraft, the timetables for the passage of aircraft and the number of persons flying in the canal area and, on the other hand, along the ring road? On Friday, you indicated that there was no question of imposing a higher sound load on Brusselsers. Can you explain to us what this commitment covers on your part? Have you conducted a consultation with the Brussels Region and the associations of local residents?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, I absolutely do not confirm the information that has been published in the press. The regulation states that the channel route is used at night by aircraft with a quota count of value lower or equal to 4 in accordance with the Ministerial Decision of 3 May 2004. To this end, a list of aircraft types published in the Aeronautical Information Publication (AIP) has always been used. However, since the first publication of the Wathelet Plan, this list has been subject to a number of changes, which have not always led to the right results. For example, the noisy aircraft could have been sent off on the channel route because the quota count value of a specific aeroplane type depending on the engine drive could be below 4 or above. With the introduction of the moratorium on 2 April, a list was updated and published. This list was too restrictive and meant that the conditions of use of the ring road and the canal were no longer respected. I have therefore decided to look strictly at how to apply the rules in force as well as the law. The solution that has been adopted is as follows. In order to determine the quota count, the aircraft type is no longer used, but the aircraft's registration, which is an objective data. This makes it possible to bind to each device a very special noise certificate and therefore, a correct count quota. This solution was taken to be implemented by the coordination work between Belgocontrol, LAC and DGTA and the modifications of Belgocontrol's automatic road allocation systems. The NOTAM published on 19 June allows for the approval of this new way of objectively applying the existing rules. Publication at the IPA will follow, as IPA publications are on fixed dates. It is therefore important to point out that it is only a matter of applying even more precisely the regulations in force (the Ministerial Order of 3 May 2004) and not of redistribution of the aircraft on the different night roads towards Chièvres, as Mrs Fonck mistakenly claimed this morning. It used to be anarchy. For years, large unauthorized aircraft have passed through this canal road. We've never had a reaction. Today, we strictly enforce the law. We are only applying legislation that is in force. So we don't change the system. We avoid anarchy and I'm accused of respecting the law. I can give you figures. The night of June 20, there was a plane. The night of June 22nd, no plane. On the night of June 23, five planes. I can give you the numbers for every night. I have the list drawn up by Belgocontrol. As far as night activities in Brussels-National are concerned, the government agreement provides for their analysis. I do not wish to give instructions without having analysed everything that covers the problem and certainly not without consultation with all the actors. Finally, you are right: consultation is essential. I have been visiting the communes of Brussels regularly for a good month in order to meet the mayors of the communes and to give maximum priority to listening and consulting with the local authorities with a view to relieving the residents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u89	Minister, thank you for your answers. The application of the quota count, which, it seems, was particularly strict, was, in any case before the changes you have just mentioned, an undeniable step forward for the city centre of Brussels. It makes me think about two things. First, the solution is clearly structural, we talked about it, it's at night. But because of the drastic effect on the night of the strict application of the quota count 4, it would be worth considering whether, in the end, we should not simply allow the overflight of all areas (Noordrand, Oostrand, city centre, Leuven, Brabant Wallon) as well as planes with the quota count 4, at least at night, since it seems to have a concrete effect. I would point out that this principle of quota count 4, in any case for the canal area, because there is no point in returning aircraft from one area to another, is a decision that had never been applied since 2003. I find it particularly inflated on the part of Mrs Fonck today to come and blame Mrs Galant for applying a rule that she and her predecessor could have applied before her. On the bottom, I can hear you. I'd love to have the list you presented, like my colleagues, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u90	We asked for it. The secretariat will transfer it to the members who have asked a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u91	Thank you, Madam Minister. This rule that you have recalled is obviously an extremely important one. The reality is that, of course, today, in relation to the decisions you have made, Madam Minister, you are twisting the rule to justify your decision. When you say that you do not confirm the information of the newspaper Le Soir, who made a publication of NOTAM that in practice brings much more aircraft on the channel? It's obviously you. Who gave Belgocontrol a free hand because today the list is not fully established? It's you. And what does that lead to? It is obvious that this list is problematic. When you say that there were no planes, I can give you every night that took place the week towards the Chièvres beacons, with, as I said earlier, all those planes between 3:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m., even though during all those nights, I have here the last ten days, there have been, in all and for all, only a few rarissime planes that have been sent to the ring. All the others were sent to the canal. You have therefore taken a decision which, in practice, penalizes the entire canal region in Brussels, whereas these are the most densely populated areas, as all colleagues have said. More serious for me: you are depriving yourself of a lever to negotiate a structural agreement. The latter is the most important and should cover nights and the maximum number of movements per year. You're talking about Brussels concertation. I was able to obtain the information that you wrote to the Brussels Regional Environment Minister in May. In this letter, you announced that you wanted to review the aircraft list. Would I dare tell you that the minister responded so quickly that, if you planned to unilaterally increase the sound load on the canal road, she was firmly opposed to it? The reality of the facts today is that you unilaterally increased the sound load, the night on Chièvres, and the weekdays on the channel. This is obviously unacceptable. I think you need to urgently review your position, go back to the list that allowed the canal area to suffer clearly from aircraft, and above all, you should finally negotiate a structural agreement with all the stakeholders.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u92	Madam Secretary, if I understand you correctly, then what you are doing is exactly what is stated in the 2010 airport agreement. If we look at that text, it is the nighttime use of the channel route for aircraft with a QC smaller or equal to 4. I think that's exactly what you're doing. I'm glad. In my view, there was indeed a structural agreement in 2010 with all possible elements in it. I understand that in recent years people have suddenly witnessed a bad memory in that area. I admit that Mr Wathelet has carried out certain things in a very strange way, but the basis was in the 2010 airport agreement. I am pleased that you are holding on to this, because I believe that this is the only agreement that remains to a large extent in existence today and should be the basis of the structural dialogue on what needs to be done in the future. I congratulate you for doing it completely as you should. I do not have any personal interests. The people will be able to classify me in the broad sense at the North Rand, if they add 30 to 40 kilometres, but I feel that in this dossier we must strive for a fair solution, which is good for everyone and ensures that we have the necessary stability, so that we can build our flight laws on it. I therefore hope that this momentum can be continued so that we can achieve results in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u93	Madam Minister, as everyone is saying, the important thing is to find a structural solution. It is clear that environmental night is a necessity for the entire population, no matter where they live. A law will have to be adopted in order to implement it. In addition, the quota count below four is important for the canal area. However, I would like to point out that the density of the population must be taken into account. There is a fundamental difference between the overflight of tens of thousands of people and that of a thousand people! It is known that the canal road is one of the most densely populated roads compared to the ring road, for example. There's no picture! It is essential to find structural solutions that take into account population density.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u94	Madam Minister, along the railway line between the West Station and the Ossegem metro station in Brussels there is a 5-hectare long-stretched area that is largely owned by SNCB. The remaining part is in the hands of Infrabel. The Brussels Region regards the area as a priority area to be developed, but negotiations with SNCB seem to be tough. SNCB would not be prepared to sell the land at this time. Hire would be a possibility. The Brussels Region is aiming for concrete changes in the field by 2020. In the meantime, the opportunities for temporary development are considered by the Territorial Development Agency. This could create a temporary green zone, where schools, youth activities and unorganised young people in the neighbourhood are hungry for it. For the development of the district, it is therefore important for SNCB to be sufficiently flexible in this respect. SNCB has always refused to develop the site, because there is no legal certainty as long as the Brussels government's guidelines have not been ratified. It is understandable that SNCB does not want to allow functions that can hypothesize later development, but this does not have to be the case in the case of well-organised temporary use. I have the following specific questions, Madam Secretary. In addition to the absence of an endorsed guide scheme, are there any other obstacles for SNCB and Infrabel to making the land available for further development? Do SNCB and Infrabel support the idea of a temporary use of the site in anticipation of a permanent implementation? If so, what are they thinking about? If not, what objections do they have to them? What is the reason why the site Park Spoor Oost in Antwerp can be developed, but not this site?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u95	Mr Van Hecke, a target scheme has no regulatory value in itself, but it is a privileged tool for the development of a leverage area, as described in the regional development plan. In addition, the fragmentation of ownership between Infrabel and SNCB, possible soil contamination in view of past use and ongoing legal proceedings concerning the release of the site are seen as additional barriers. Infrabel and SNCB are open to temporary use of the site. They are open to various initiatives insofar as they do not hypothesize long-term plans. Infrabel, for example, has an increase in the capacity of line 28, possibly through the construction of a third track near the West Station. These are completely different projects, even if it was only a trace that was no longer in use in Antwerp and that the implementation is in line with the longer-term plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u96	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I note that Infrabel and SNCB are open for temporary use. I think this is a positive story. I hope that concrete discussions can take place and that this area can be given a useful interpretation, without, of course, hypothecing the future. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u97	Madam President, Minister, in 2014, SNCB would have a net loss of €512.3 million. On the other hand, the gross operating surplus (EBITDA) has a deficit of EUR 8.7 million, while the managers of the public company had a positive EBITDA of 5.7 million last March. In a press release, SNCB responded by explaining that the figures had been misinterpreted and that they were therefore distorted information. SNCB also states that it publishes its results transparently. Minister, SNCB denied a loss of $512.3 million in 2014. Can you tell me what is actually happening? What is the Group's actual financial position? What are its financial forecasts for 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u98	Before doing so, I would like to point out that the subject of national and international accounting standards is complex and can therefore easily lead to confusion. In general, SNCB reports in international accounting standards: IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards). This is extremely logical as credit rating agencies and international lenders rely on these rules. The article to which the honourable member refers mentions SNCB's 2014 accounting loss of EUR 512.3 million in Belgian accounting standards (BGAAP). The bulk of this accounting loss is due to the railway reform and relates to the period prior to 2014. The accounting impact of the railway reform on the 2014 result of the new SNCB is negative at the level of €383.2 million according to the Belgian accounting framework. This is mainly due to the following: (a) a surplus of the accumulated losses of the former SNCB over the period 2005-2013 in relation to the value of SNCB Holding's participation and a subordinated loan granted by SNCB Holding (negative impact of EUR 510.2 million); (b) a transfer of net assets to Infrabel (positive impact of EUR 126.9 million). In short, the recurring EBITDA cash of 2014 is well + €5.7 million in IFRS, as reported by SNCB, while the total EBITDA cash, i.e. more non-recurring recurring, is €34.5 million in the same standards, while the total EBITDA cash in BGAAP standards is less than €3.7 million. The difference between EBITDA according to BGAAP and EBITDA according to IFRS derives mainly from the disposals of fixed assets and the Fyra compensation in IFRS under EBITDA and BGAAP under exceptional financial results. I give you a small numerical summary, which was prepared by SNCB and which details the thing. The SNCB does not report budget forecasts, which change, by definition, during the year, but rather on its results once they have been finally approved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u99	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. History has taught us that we need to be careful with the numbers. Thank you for this information about Fyra, ABX, IFRS, EBITDA Cash.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u100	Madam President, SNCB recently announced the extensive renovation of some MR75 motors. This is a real renaissance for these trains from 1975. The aim of this modernization would be to allow these vehicles to operate for an additional 15 to 20 years. During this renovation, vehicles will receive a larger livery as well as a new cable network, new windows, a new door system and new asbestos-free insulation. The interior would also be completely restored to the taste of the day. Minister, can you tell us how many trainsets will be renovated during this renovation project? In addition to the few elements mentioned above, can you give us details of the other types of renovations planned? Can you estimate the cost of such renovations and compare it to the purchase of new trainsets? Will this renovation be carried out within the SNCB's internal workshops or will it be an external supplier to carry out the work? Do you know when these renovated trainsets will be used? On which lines can they be expected to be put into service?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u101	In addition to the renovations referred to by the honourable Member in his question (new paint, new wiring, new insulation, new interior, new windows, etc.), some important changes are also foreseen:- renewal of the heating and ventilation system (application of forced extraction, i.e. that the "vicie/hot" air is evacuated by fans). Compared to an unmodernized quadruple automotor, this change will ensure lower temperatures in summer and better ventilation/circulation of air. - addition of a Travel Information System (SIV/RIS); - new toilet modules with closed system, including a toilet suitable for people with reduced mobility; - 220 volts; - addition of a multifunctional space with automatic interior door (for persons with reduced mobility, the carriage of bicycles,...). The cost of renovating a quadruple type 75 car (including four single-level cars with a total of 348 seats) amounts to €3.34 million. For comparison with new equipment, the acquisition of Desiro-type equipment can be taken as the basis. However, it must be taken into account that this is a triple automotor with 280 seats and that the size of the order lot is 305 automotors. For the modernization of AM75, there is indeed a quadruple automotor and the size of the lot is 44 automotors. The cost of acquiring a Desiro is €5 million, with the size of the lot playing a major role in it. It is therefore necessary to exercise the necessary caution in order to be able to make a comparison. The modernization work (disassembly and assembly, large-scale work, painting, etc.) within the framework of this project will be carried out by three different central workshops of the SNCB, namely the AC Malines, AC Salzinnes and AC Gentbrugge. Only asbestos removal activities will be carried out by a certified external firm. The first of the 44 motors has already been upgraded and, after certification, will be available for operation, with the 2nd motor of the series, from the end of 2015. These cars will be used mainly on the Antwerp-Turnhout and Turnhout-Brussels-Binche lines.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u102	Minister, thank you for the answer that I understand. You're saying it's not a fact on purpose. I also thank you for the good news. I think you are very much in demand on the state of this line, in any case on the lines of the Central Region to Brussels. We were hoping for Louvain-la-Neuve, but today we're being taken to Turnhout. I will not fail to come back with requests from the mayors. Unfortunately, you were unable to honour our invitation for a very good reason (you were in the Council of Ministers). You were remarkably well represented at the time. We shall return to that point. I am pleased that investments are being made. Our lines need it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u103	Minister, you have repeatedly announced the creation of a task force as early as mid-2015. It is intended to assess the structural problems arising from the implementation of the new transport plan and to prepare the 2017 transport plan well upstream. This task force should bring together all regions and consultation bodies. I asked you about this on April 1st. You told me that it was too early to give a precise answer to my questions and that I had to wait until mid-2015. Here we go. What about it? Minister, where are you in the process of setting up this task force? How will it be composed? Will representatives of civil society be invited? How will it work? To whom should the opinions given by the Commission be forwarded? Will the task force to be set up replace the User Advisory Committee, which is currently in stand by and whose members need to be renewed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u104	Mrs Poncelet, this task force must address various cross-cutting issues with the Regions, including the next transport plan in the light of the assessment of the advantages and limitations of the current one. Meetings with representatives of the Regions, SNCB and Infrabel have already taken place, as announced since mid-May, in particular in the context of the development of suburban supply and following the decisions of the Concertation Committee. The aim is to work on the definition of a comprehensive strategy for different files and to present the status of some projects. This remains at a political level, accompanied by several experts from autonomous public enterprises and, possibly, from administrations. It is clear that, in parallel, I will continue to meet with all actors in civil society. In addition, at the operational level, SNCB has already scheduled four meetings with each Region and the transport companies concerned, as well as another with the Mobility & Transport FPS and the CCVF storeholders, trains, trams, buses, commuters.be, etc. Finally, I have already had the opportunity to explain the extent to which the CCVF should be strengthened and made autonomous. It is a clear political ambition. Moreover, this morning I presented the draft which was voted unanimously by this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u105	Minister, the questions are asked in advance and the projects are coming. As I understand it, the Advisory Committee replaces the task force.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u106	He must be consulted!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u107	I don't want to piss you off, minister. I just wanted to have that precision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u108	This is actually a follow-up question in the context of the accessibility of ticket machines. In my written submission, I have already stated that these machines sometimes pose a problem for persons with physical or mental disabilities. We have already discussed this in our committee. You replied that SNCB was willing, in consultation with the FPS Mobility, to consider allowing an exception to the application of the on-board fare for those who have a specific card from the FPS Social Security Office or issued for that purpose. To date, SNCB has been committed to the current possibilities of its management contract. Only blind cards and cards for a guide are currently included. This morning, when I was taking action against the closing of checkpoints, I noticed that some travellers had problems using ticket machines. Hence my plea once again that the rate of EUR 7 should not apply to persons with disabilities. What's the status? Has SNCB contacted the FPS Mobility? Is there an exception? Should we wait for a new management agreement? Has there been any consultation between the FPS Mobility and the FPS Social Security to develop another map? Since the introduction of the on-board fare in February 2015, how many times has a derogation been granted for persons who are physically or mentally unable to buy a ticket via a vending machine?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u109	Madam President, to my question No. I have already received a written reply to 5051 on the on-board rate in the case of defective machines. I shall simply put my question to the Commissioner. 5041 couples. Madam Minister, persons with permanent visual impairment of at least 90% travel free of charge by train. A companion can also come free of charge. For persons who are moderately visually impaired, between 70% and 90% of invalidity, SNCB does not make any additional effort. However, it is sometimes very difficult or impossible for them and for other groups with other restrictions to buy a train ticket via the vending machines. In that case, those travellers depend on the purchase of a ticket on the train, which automatically costs them an additional seven euros. There are therefore insufficient opportunities to purchase a ticket without having to face that surcharge. It has already been argued that this practice is contrary to both the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the European Regulation on the Rights and Obligations of Train Passengers. The latter states that disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility should be able to buy their ticket on the train at no extra cost. Madam Secretary, first of all, do you recognise the problem for visually impaired people with regard to the purchase of a ticket to the vending machine? Secondly, is the new on-board tariff regime in line with the European Regulation and the UN Convention on the Rights and Obligations of Train Passengers? Thirdly, do you intend to ask SNCB to make an exception to the on-board rate for persons with limited vision? Fourthly, what other possibilities do you see to obtain that exception if SNCB does not answer your question?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u110	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no problem for the blind and the visually impaired, because on presentation of the national discount card for the blind and visually impaired, they travel free of charge in second class on the SNCB network. The card is considered a ticket and an additional transaction is not necessary. There is a problem for other people with disabilities, including those with moderate visual impairment and those with reduced mobility. I asked SNCB that train escorts should show some flexibility in charging the surcharge on board. However, they consider that train drivers cannot assess the extent to which a person has a disability or not and that they should not judge it during their audit round. SNCB has systematically applied the surcharge on board since 1 February and does not allow any derogation for people who are physically or mentally unable to buy a ticket from a vending machine. An identification card for people with disabilities as a replacement or supplement to today's recognised cards for the blind and partially sighted and for their companions could provide a solution. I have asked Mr Sleurs to take this dossier to heart. Both Cabinets have set up a working group, which meets regularly with the National High Council for Persons with Disability. My cabinet has also appointed a reference person Handicap. Meetings with the FPS Mobility and Transport will be scheduled shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u111	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. There is nothing you can do about it, because you yourself asked SNCB to find a solution. I regret, however, that no flexibility has been found in this regard. A resolution from this committee on access to public transport for people with disabilities will be discussed in plenary this day. If there is one concrete case that could be solved today with some flexibility and empathy, it is this. The bureaucratic umbrella that is now being opened does not seem to me to be a good idea for an inclusive policy in which people with physical or mental constraints should be allowed to take the train autonomously. I therefore regret the position of SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u112	Madam Secretary, you acknowledge the problem. It is a pity, however, that today we have to call on the flexibility and flexibility of train drivers. In fact, it is difficult what we are doing, saying that they can handle it smoothly. I also know that some train escorts are flexible, especially if they know the travellers and know that these people have problems. However, it is not always easy. They may have doubts, too. If there is no objective data, such as a specific map, it is very difficult. In the end, we must not place that responsibility on the train escorts either. I think that SNCB should seek a structural solution to this. It's a good thing you're setting up a working group with Secretary of State Sleurs. However, I believe that we must be able to find a solution in the very short term. It is sometimes very painful to see people suck at a ticket machine because they cannot read the text, so that they can be confronted with a surcharge of seven euros. This must be possible in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u113	Madam President, in order to speed up the pace, I would like to put my question to the President-in-Office. 5043 to be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u114	We now come to Question No 5, by Mr Beazley, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 5048 by Mr Van
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u115	Madam Minister, this is a somewhat technical question which I had originally tabled as a written question, but which I had to translate into an oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u116	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u117	Shall I turn that question back into a written question? Strictly speaking, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, that is not allowed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u118	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u119	Okay, I'll put that question back in a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u120	Mr Van Hecke, we now come to your question 5050 under item 36.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u121	Madam President, when the answer to that question is prepared, I will also turn it into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u122	Mrs. Temmerman's coming, Mr. Maingain's not here. Mrs De Coninck, I give you the floor for your question. 5242 under item 48.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u123	Madam President, for me too, a written answer to that question is sufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u124	Madam Minister, a new yard phase in the construction of the third and fourth track between Ghent and Bruges was recently announced. Four will consider being replaced this summer. Infrabel chooses to start these works to reduce the number of accidents to unsecured consideration. The preparatory work has already started. The construction works run from summer 2015 to 2017. A crossing is not replaced by a bridge or a tunnel but is connected to a nearby tunnel. The new road will be part of the long-distance cycle path along the railway line in the future. However, the situation for the cyclists will only really improve when the complete cycle path is constructed. It is unclear when this complete cycling route will be realized next to the Bruges-Gent railway line. The situation in the station environment of Aalter is poignant. As a result of the new transport regime, more passengers are moving into the centre of Aalter. However, parking in the station environment is too limited, both for bicycles and for passenger cars. In addition, the station and platforms are not fully accessible. On average, almost 2 000 passengers leave the station every day. The time horizon of the works on the third and fourth tracks has shifted from 2016 to 2025. The information meeting showed that it is not even certain that everything would be ready by 2025. The timing of the redesign of the station environment is already quite unclear. I come to my questions. Firstly, on the basis of what arguments were the current priorities for the work on the third and fourth tracks in Aalter laid down? Secondly, the decision to postpone a number of works is a result of the announced savings, or what other reason does Infrabel give for this. Thirdly, is the impact on all modes of transport also being considered for these priorities? For example, the work on considering in Aalter does not lead to better road safety. On the contrary, they are bad for cyclists because they do not complete the entire journey. Fourthly, why are the urgent adjustments to the station building, to the platform and to the surrounding area not made for the adjustments to the road? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u125	Mr Van Hecke, the works concerned are planned in the ongoing multiannual investment plan 2013-2025. The impact on all modes of transport will be considered in the preparation of the projects. For the project concerned, the future situation will be identical to the current one. Safety will even increase as the rail line will be crossed by uneven ground crossings. This also applies to the slow road users. In addition, a new slow connection between Beernem and Maria-Aalter will be created to avoid the use of the Saint-Joristraat. Between Maria-Aalter and Aalter cyclists can still use the existing slow connections. Moreover, the current phase of the works is compatible with the mobility plan of the municipality of Aalter. The crossing in Beernem will be replaced by a bicycle tunnel and will be set up together with a new service for the public.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u126	Madam Minister, thank you for the answer that seems to me to be quite complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u127	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u128	Madam Minister, for a long time there has been a discussion on the rail link between De Panne and Dunkirk, better known as Railway 73. It has not been used for more than 10 years and SNCB and Infrabel do not intend to use it again in the coming years. From your answers to previous questions, I can conclude that you agree with this and minimise the demand for this connection, for passenger and freight transport. However, other Members of Parliament, from majority parties, claim the opposite. Last year SNCB promised to cooperate in a study for the reopening of the route between Adinkerke and Dunkirk. You stated at the beginning of this year that you had no knowledge of this. A study on the possible reopening of this route would also have been ordered in France. In addition, the Province of West Flanders and the Département du Nord state in their cross-border cooperation strategy that "the areas have extensive multimodal transport infrastructure, which, however, needs modernisation, especially rail'. Promoting cross-border mobility is also put forward as an operational objective. Finally, you stated that you would terminate the historic agreements of the 19th century that exist on this line, without consulting Parliament. Members from other political groups have already complained about this. These agreements will come to an end soon, hence the following questions. Firstly, on what data do you, SNCB and Infrabel base themselves to say that there is no market demand for a train connection between Dunkirk and De Panne? Does this apply to both goods and persons? Secondly, what about the feasibility study for the line? Is that gonna happen? If so, where is it? If not, what did SNCB mean in its communication in June 2014? Thirdly, what is the position of the French national transport company on this? When was the last time you spoke to them about this? Have they already had a study carried out on the feasibility of the reopening? If so, what has been shown? Fourthly, as regards the termination of the historical agreements, when will they be effectively terminated? Why didn't you consult Parliament before that? In the end, it is the parliaments which are responsible for concluding the agreements, of course not for the cancellation, but for the sake of courtesy it would be good if they were also communicated to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u129	As you know, the trail between De Panne and Dunkirk has been out of service for a long time. The last passenger train drove in 1958. Later there was another sporadic tourist train. Since then there has been no passenger transport. SNCB lets me know that the current bus connection with DK.Bus line 2 Dunekerke...Adinkerke...The Panne Station, in connection with the high-frequency Coastal tram and the buses of De Lijn as well as the SNCB trains De Panne...Gent...Brussels meets the local demand for cross-border public passenger transport. Long-term railway infrastructure initiatives should be examined jointly by public authorities and the various public transport providers. I would also refer the honourable Member to the factual information referred to in my reply to Question No 5, by Mr De Clercq, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. If there is a feasibility study around this line, SNCB and Infrabel will participate, but at the moment I have no knowledge of such a study. As far as the views of the French national transport company are concerned, SNCB has not had any specific consultations with SNCF in this respect. With regard to the termination of the historical agreements, I can inform you that the termination of these agreements has been effective since 1 April 2015. Parliament was not consulted because, according to Article 167 of the Constitution, the conclusion and termination of international agreements fall within the competence of the executives.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u130	Madam Minister, it remains surprising that you have no knowledge of a study that would be carried out, although SNCB communicated on this at the time. So it was either a fault of SNCB or somewhere there is a problem of internal communication between SNCB and yourself. I also note that there is no consultation with the French railway company, which is strange because it concerns cross-border transport. I note that the historic agreements were finally terminated on 1 April 2015. I know that Parliament should not be informed of this strictly legally. However, we usually ratify the agreements. Communication would therefore have been appropriate. I regret the way things are going on in the file. I hope that in future there will be some possibility of re-investing in cross-border traffic in the region concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u131	The ANPR cameras that are used in the Flemish Region for speed control have a problem with the recognition of the personalised number plates. The 33 cameras on the motorways record them but do not recognize them, so a very time-consuming manual handling is required afterwards. The 250 camera plates neither record nor recognize the personalised number plates, which de facto renders the owners of such plates unpunished. On 11 June 2015, the Flemish Minister of Mobility stated in the Public Works Committee of the Flemish Parliament that, among other things, the Roads and Traffic Agency, the police and Centrex had already warned against the introduction of the personalised number plates for a problem with the recognition by the ANPR cameras. Despite this, it has continued to be introduced. Everyone agrees that this is unacceptable. This would mean that the owners could escape a number of things. I do not have to tell you that road safety is not really served by the fact that these people cannot be prosecuted. The Minister also asked you to implement the suspension of personalised number plates pending a solution. Apparently, there were warnings in advance. However, your predecessor did not go into this. Can you explain why? Will you answer the question of temporarily suspending the personalised number plates? Are there any solutions to allow the cameras to recognize the personalised number plates? Should the rules be reviewed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u132	Mr Temmerman has rightly explained the harrowing situation. Meanwhile, the DIV says that she announced in advance that there would be problems. It is clear that your intervention is necessary to find a solution. Have you already consulted with DIV on this issue? If so, what are the conclusions? What is the state of play in your search for a solution for the recognition of personalised number plates by ANPR cameras? Will the distribution of these plates be suspended pending a structural solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to make it clear that it is not true that cameras with automatic number plate recognition do not recognize personalised number plates. With some cameras there is a problem, but the vast majority of personalised number plates are recognized. There is therefore no general impunity. The practical experience has shown that some cameras cannot read number plates of less than four characters. This was not yet known when the new system was introduced. In the meantime, 1 760 such plates were awarded. This is 0.023 % of all license plates in our country. Even they do not escape all unmanned controls. The scale of the problem must therefore be differentiated. However, I fully agree with you that even partial impunity is unacceptable. On the basis of an initial analysis, it turns out that in other countries it is perfectly possible for unmanned camera dynamometers to recognize number plates with a different combination. The most obvious final solution is therefore to adjust the software of the camera dynamometers. It still seems useful and necessary to repeat that, as political leaders, we must first of all convey the message that compliance with the traffic rules, in particular the rules on speed limits, is mandatory.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u134	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. I totally agree with you. Compliance with rules, we all have to vouch for that. However, you also know that in the end, and certainly in the area of traffic offences, enforcement is almost absolutely necessary. We are still the worst student of the class in terms of road safety. Compliance with the rules will continue to require monitoring. It's true it's only a small percentage. You are talking about 0.023 %. It could encourage a lot of people to have a personalised number plate as they know that a number of cameras do not recognize them. I've got the numbers here: 33 cameras register them, but they can't link them. That means there's a lot of research work to be done. Furthermore, 250 camera plates do not register the number plates and cannot recognize them either. That's not negative. You say you have to look for an adjustment of the software. I fully agree with that. The Flemish minister's question was to put the personalised number plates on hold. I don't think you answered that unless I didn't hear it. Are you going to put it on hold or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u135	The problem is not at the federal level. It is the problem of the Flemish Region and it must find a solution. It is not the federal government that has to adapt.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u136	You're saying it's not true, but before the personalized license plates were introduced, AWV, the police and Centrex warned that these license plates wouldn't be recognized. You're saying this isn't true. In that case, the Flemish minister is lying. Again, he stated that the Flemish Agency Roads and Traffic, the police and Centrex warned that these personalised number plates would not be recognized.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u137	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. You have reassured me somewhat, because apparently it is not a problem for all cameras. Some cameras would flash, others wouldn't. It's enough to update the software. Those who claim that car owners would buy a personalised license plate in order not to be flashed, are going to go wild. From the types of personalized number plates one can deduce that one buys them to emphasize his identity. In any case, the problem must be addressed quickly and you must consult with the regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u138	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Camp's 5087 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van den Bergh's 5155 question was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Maingain has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u139	Madam Minister, I do not know if you were born under a good star, or under a good wing of airplanes, but you are lucky to have the help, perhaps unexpected, of a federation of associations that presented on June 12 a platform of common demands. It is all the more interesting that these associations do not come only from one Region or the other. They are representative of the 19 municipalities but also, and this is probably the major fact, of the eastern periphery and the northern periphery. For the first time in the history of conflicts over the air routes and the overflight of Brussels and its periphery, we are witnessing the agreement of the associations which, until now, have been fighting each other. These associations have established a common platform of claims. The main points have been brought to your attention, in particular by the press, and I have no doubt that they have also been communicated to you by the associations themselves. Doing this work together, they facilitate the search for a structural and lasting solution. Today, you no longer have the argument to say that some do not want what others are asking for. It has been done: they have agreed on a common statement of claims. This booklet pays particular attention to the prohibition of night flights. This claim is shared. This prohibition would not prejudice any neighbourhood or commune, since those who would benefit from it are as much north as east, central or south of the Brussels agglomeration. Of course, they also request that there be an environmental impact assessment and prior public consultation prior to the definition of new air routes, that operations be prohibited at Zaventem airport for the loudest aircraft, and so on. I'm not going to take over their entire claim book. This is, in any case, a major fact, a first, and we can only rejoice at it. That's exactly the subject I want to ask you about. How do you receive this claim book? Did you do the analysis? Can you say today that you adhere to it or not, and for what reason? It is all the more important – and I am unveiling here talks that I have had with you in the context of my role as mayor – that I know that you have the will to move towards structural solutions, if not in a short time, at least not so far away. We can expect major progress by the end of the year. You are right to want to move towards major and definitive progress on this issue before the end of the year, as long as you meet the expectations of the populations concerned represented by these associations. We know that on 13 June 2016 European Regulation 598/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on the establishment of rules and procedures for the introduction of noise-related operating restrictions at European Union airports will enter into force as part of a balanced approach. This regulation repeals an old directive. This is an important legal dimension, which will link the federal and regional governments. They will be bound by this directly applicable regulation and will no longer be able to unilaterally restrict the operation of airports. If you want to give satisfaction to these federated associations, then the fateful date is known. You have a little year to move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u140	Let me sum up my questions. How do you welcome the creation of the platform of these twelve associations? Can you join it? Secondly, I have no doubt that your services have already carried out a legal analysis of the consequences of the entry into force of the European regulation I was quoting. Therefore, as these consequences are assessed, how do you see your work for the coming months?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u141	Mr Maingain, in reply to the first question, I made it clear that a relocation from the airport was not on the agenda. As far as night flights are concerned, I will be working, in accordance with the government agreement, on the analysis of night activities from and to Brussels-National. I do not wish to give instruction without having an overview of all the night activities at the airport and certainly not without consultation with all the actors. The number of movements must respect a logic of balance between the economic development of Brussels Airport Company (LAC) and the reduction of noise pollution to the inhabitants of Brussels. I hope that the number of movements reflects this balance. With regard to your second question, I do not agree with you when you say that the government agreement makes no mention of Regulation 598/2014, since it contains a law on flight procedures, an impact assessment and public consultation, and the creation of an independent authority which, as I have already told one of your colleagues earlier, is almost finalized. There is even a record of compliance with the preferential use of runways and wind standards. I therefore regret these judicial actions which only cause a little more instability in this matter, which, you will recognise, is extremely complex. I know what nuisances people are going through, but unfortunately I can't solve all the problems in a few months. I'm working on all the points and the residents know that because, for example, in the case of Runway 01, my firm explained all the work being done at the association. Like you, I am glad that all these associations have come together. Indeed, I am an ardent defender of the concertation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u142	Minister, thank you for taking stock of the consequences of the regulation. I won't argue any more. You know what we are defending with these associations. The wait is huge. You only have a few months to respond positively and definitively. Either you will put your name in the history of this country's airport policy and you may even have the advantage of having a plane dedicated to your name, or you will announce the less pleasant disasters for the inhabitants of the regions concerned. To help the majority move in the right direction, I move a reasoned motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u143	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Olivier Maingain and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Olivier Maingain and the response of the Minister for Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the Belgian National Railway Company, - Whereas Regulation (EU) No 598/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on the establishment of rules and procedures for the introduction of noise-related operating restrictions at Union airports, as part of a balanced approach, and repealing Directive 2002/30/EC, which will enter into force on 13 June 2016; - Whereas from that date the restrictions on exploitation will not be applied as a first intention, but only after consideration of the other measures of the balanced approach; - Considering the difficulties, summarized in the ULB report (ULB & IGEAT, Ex-post analysis of the new air procedures put into operation on 6 February 2014 in the Brussels metropolitan area, Etude pour le SPF Mobility et Transports, final report, Brussels, 7 May 2014, p. 9), making the implementation of the measures previously recommended by the balanced approach as defined in Regulation No 598/2014 thorny; - Whereas the noise-related operating restrictions put in place before 13 June 2016 will remain in force until the competent authorities decide to revise them in accordance with Regulation No 598/2014; Whereas the right to health and a healthy environment for residents constitutes an inalienable right, as prescribed by Article 23 of the Constitution, which does not prejudice the economic development of Brussels-National Airport; - Whereas the Decree of the Government of the Brussels-Capital Region of 27 May 1999 on the control of noise generated by air traffic; - Whereas the Brussels Court of Appeal in its judgment of 9 June 2005 in response to an appeal brought by the Brussels Region against the Belgian State had made it clear that the Brussels Government Order of 27 May 1999 was perfectly legal and that compliance with environmental legislation did not result in the cessation of airport activity; Whereas the enforcement of this judicial decision, which has enabled the Brussels Region to require the Belgian State to pay periodic penalty payments for each infringement found in the anti-noise order since 15 October 2005, could never be applied; - Whereas the correct execution of court decisions is merely a legalistic objective to respect the decisions of the judiciary, which is inspired by the principle of federal loyalty, with a view to ensuring legal certainty; - Considering the Federal Government's declaration of 9 October 2014, which announces the development of a structural solution (...), in particular in areas with a high population density, (Federal Government Agreement, 10 October 2014, p. 219) and the anchoring of airport agreements in a law on flight procedures, (Idem); - taking into account the successive plans aimed at curbing noise pollution in the short and medium term, the first of which dates from September 1988; - having regard to the order of the Court of First Instance of Brussels of 31 July 2014 on the illegality of the amendments drawn up in the framework of the Wathelet Plan; - considering the application of this judicial decision, in respect of which the Federal Government introduced a moratorium on changes to the air routes on 6 February 2014, resulting in several weeks of noise nuisances for several thousand residents and an abusive aerial overflight on Brussels and its immediate periphery, Requests the federal government that: (1) any air route shall be subject to an environmental impact study and prior public consultation; 2. any night flight from and upon arrival from Brussels-National Airport shall be prohibited between 22:00 and 07:00; 3. operations are prohibited at Zaventem Airport for all the loudest aircraft according to the standards of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO); 4. Overflight of densely populated areas is prohibited; 5. the route of the canal, which has a particular impact on densely populated areas, either as part of structural measures to reduce noise pollution caused by Brussels-National Airport; 6. an airport strategy is put in place at country level, exploiting the specificities of each airport, Liège being recognised and adapted for freight; (7) aviation procedures shall be monitored by an independent authority, including regional representatives; (8) Belgocontrol applies wind standards and procedures transparently; (9) Belgocontrol enforces the instruction to avoid the Brussels Region (Avoid EBP-01) by diverting landing flows; (10) Noise abatment procedure (NA) is reintroduced with rapid climb for all take-offs and continuous descent for all landings; 11) the limit speed of the noise reduction procedure is determined on the basis of a study of the consequences and is valid for any aircraft operating at the national airport; 12) in the event of an infringement of the aeronautical procedures published in the A.I.P., administrative penalties shall be laid down by the DGTA (In accordance with Art. 21, chapter II, criminal provisions, and art. 46, chapter III, Administrative amendments, of the Act of 27 June 1937 amending the Act of 16 November 1919 on the regulation of air navigation; 13. Land planning and management are optimized to reduce impacts on people; 14) noise management requires effective soundproofing at other airports (e.g. Liège). A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Olivier Maingain, which reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Olivier Maingain and the reply of the Minister for Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the National Society of Belgian Railways, Energy, Environment and Sustainable Development, - having regard to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council 598/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on the establishment of rules and procedures for the introduction of noise-related operating restrictions at Union airports within the framework of a balanced approach and repealing Directive 2002/30/EC, which will enter into force on 13 June 2016; - whereas from that date the operating restrictions will not be applied initially but only after the other measures of the balanced approach have been considered; - having regard to the report of the ULB ( ULB & IGEAT, Ex post analysis of the new air procedures put into operation on 6 February 2014 in the Brussels metropolitan area, Study for the Mobility and Transport FPS, Final Report, Brussel, 7 mei 2014, blz. 9 (ii) problems summarized by the implementation of the measures to be taken in advance in accordance with the recommendation on the balanced approach as defined in Regulation No. 598/2014, difficulty; - whereas noise-related operating restrictions introduced before 13 June 2016 remain valid until the competent authorities decide on them pursuant to Regulation No. to be revised by 598/2014; - whereas the right to health and a healthy environment for local residents is an inalienable right, under Article 23 of the Constitution, which in no way jeopardises the economic development of Brussels Airport; - having regard to the decision of the Government of the Brussels-Capital Region of 27 May 1999 on the control of noise emitted by air traffic, - whereas the Brussels Appeal Court, in its judgment of 9 June 2005, which was delivered as a result of the action brought by the Brussels Region against the Belgian State, effectively stated that the Brussels Government's decision of 27 May 1999 was fully legal and that compliance with environmental legislation did not result in the cessation of airport activity; - whereas that judgment, which enabled the Brussels Region to claim payment of periodic penalty payments from the Belgian State since 15 October 2005 for any infringement of the decision on the fight against noise, could never be enforced; - whereas the proper implementation of judicial decisions is part of the legalistic objective of respecting the decisions of the judicial authority, which is based on the principle of federal loyalty, with a view to ensuring legal certainty; - having regard to the Federal Policy Declaration of 9 October 2014 which "a structural, (...) solution to reduce noise pollution, in particular in densely populated areas, ' ( Policy Statement, 10 October 2014, p. 219 ) with the prospect of the airport agreements being anchored "in a law on flight procedures " (Idem); - having regard to successive plans to reduce noise pollution in the short and medium term, the first of which dates from September 1988; - having regard to the decision of the Court of First Instance in Brussels of 31 July 2014, which ruled on the illegality of the amendments made under the Wathelet Plan; - having regard to the application of that judgment, as a result of which the Federal Government has imposed a moratorium on the amendments made to the flight routes on 6 February 2014, resulting in noise pollution for thousands of residents and aircraft over Brussels and the near border for several weeks, Asks the Government: 1) an environmental impact study is carried out for each flight route and prior public consultation is carried out; 2) any night flight with departure from or arrival at Brussels Airport between 22h 00 and 7h 00 is prohibited; 3) prohibit the operations of the most noisy aircraft, in accordance with the standards of the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) at Brussels Airport; (4) prohibit the overflying of densely populated areas; 5) to avoid the channel route, which in particular causes noise pollution in densely populated areas, as part of structural measures to reduce noise pollution caused by Brussels Airport; 6) an airport strategy is drawn up for the whole country, using the specific characteristics of each airport and the Liège airport is recognised and adapted for freight transport; (7) the aviation procedures are controlled by an independent authority, in which the Regions are represented; 8) Belgocontrol applies the wind standards and procedures in a transparent manner; 9) Belgocontrol the training to avoid the Brussels Region (Avoid EBP-01), by shifting the landing routes; 10) the noise abatment procedure (NA) would be re-established, with the aircraft taking off quickly and making a continuous drop in landing; (11) the speed limit under that procedure is determined on the basis of an impact study and applies to any aircraft using the national airport; 12) in the event of infringement of the aviation procedures published in the AIP, administrative sanctions are imposed by DGLV (in accordance with Art. 21, Chapter II................................................................................................................................................................ 46 Chapter III "Administrative fines' of the Law of 27 June 1937 revising the Law of 16 November 1919 on the Air Transport Scheme); 13) optimize planning and land management to reduce nuisances for residents; 14) efficient noise abatement devices are used to manage noise at other airports (e.g. in Liège) which have proved their worth." A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Inez De Coninck, Ms. Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and Mr. Emmanuel Burton and Gilles Foret. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Inez De Coninck and Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and by Mr Emmanuel Burton and Mr Gilles Foret. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u144	Minister, in ten years, ten railway stations have been abolished in the province of Namur. Five additional windows will be closed by the end of 2015, beginning of 2016. After the ticket counters of Couvin, Auvelais, Godinne, Moustier-sur-Sambre, Namèche, Assesse, Houyet, Naninne, Philippeville and Gedinne, it is the turn of the ticket counters of the stations of Walcourt, Beauraing, Jemeppe-sur-Sambre, Yvoir and Mariembourg to go to the trap. Again, those who live near small railway stations will be harmed. This situation is also criticized by the General Student Assembly of Leuven (AGL), which recalls that the train remains the first means of transport for students. Minister, I would have liked to hear from you about what you can say to users who pass through these stations on a daily basis as to their fear that they will no longer have staff to contact for information or in the event of disruption. What do you say to the thousands of students for whom the train remains the first means of transportation? Can you assure us that closing the windows is not a first step to justify the definitive closure of these stations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u145	Madam Minister, on 28 May last, there was a press release by SNCB announcing the gradual closure of 33 unvisited points of contact on 1 July, today. My province, West Flanders, was hit hard by this. The Koksijde and Wervik counters were supposed to close today. Poperinge, where you have been visiting at the beginning of May, would close in the course of 2016, if the necessary safety tasks to be carried out by SNCB personnel would be removed as a result of technical evolution. We discussed this at length at the committee meeting on 10 June. As a minister, you said that in the future, SNCB could no longer distribute such news via a press release without prior consultation or communication with local authorities. You then also promised to ask SNCB for the figures of the rate of inactivity per closed window. Last week the press reported that one of those 33 counters, that of Poperinge in particular, would still be open for three years. In one version of the story, SNCB changes its decision for Poperinge, in another it says that there has been a wrong communication. The press release would have mistakenly stated that this was for the course of 2016, but as long as no new equipment is deployed on the railway line, the safety tasks should be carried out by the staff who are also deployed at the counters. New equipment for which staff is no longer required would not be possible in the coming years. In the meantime, Koksijde would have been granted a delay of closure until after the tourist season. Madam Minister, first of all, have you been given the figures by closing or closing windows? If so, can you give it to me? Secondly, before Poperinge's window, has a decision been amended or not? Will it remain as originally planned? Thirdly, the Wervik station building is owned by SNCB. Will this be sold? What are the plans with that? Fourthly, how long will Cooksijde stay open? The station building there is owned by the municipality of Koksijde. What strategy will SNCB use in the negotiations with Koksijde? Finally, opportunities are being sought in the affected municipalities to replace services. By analogy with bpost, SNCB points may be used. For example, could it be a piste to spend the sale of tickets to the self-employed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u146	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, over the years, the SNCB has seen a decrease in the sale of tickets to ticket offices in favour of other distribution channels, such as automatons, home printing and mobile applications. Indeed, as I have already explained, according to SNCB, the share of automatons in the various sales channels has quadrupled in less than two years to reach 35%. During the same period, the share of windows in sales decreased from 72% to 57%. Also, investments have been made in these new sales channels and benefit both urban and rural customers. This change in customer habits in the mode of purchasing transport tickets leads to an increase in the average time of inactivity of the agents at the counter, sometimes up to more than 80%. Therefore, in the interests of efficiency, the SNCB has chosen to allocate human resources where they are most useful, and has decided, through its board of directors, where most of the political parties are represented, to proceed with the gradual closure of 33 small shops. As part of its 2011 savings plan, the Board of Directors of SNCB, meeting on 15 July 2011, had already decided to close 38 windows. The closure of these windows will in no way affect the rail offer. Indeed, the abolition of the sale at the counter does not imply the abolition of trains. It's an important element. The new automatons are equipped with a support service and are easily usable, especially by the elderly. The customer may, in case of a problem, be guided in the purchase of his ticket until the time of payment. This additional service can be used as many times as necessary. In addition, the automatons are accessible 24 hours a day at all stations, especially in those affected by the closure of their windows. Students, much more than other segments of the population, are familiar with modern digital applications such as SNCB. As for staff directly involved in the closing of the counters, they will be assigned to similar functions in a nearby station to advise customers where the need is greater. There will therefore be no question of dismissal. With regard to the possibility of obtaining information in the event of train delays or cancellations, it should be noted that more and more stations are equipped with the EMMA automatic announcement system. This intelligent information management system, which adapts itself in real time to the situation of rail traffic, will be progressively implemented at all stations and stop points in the Belgian railway network. It will also make it possible to inform the traveller as best possible, even in the event of a disturbance of traffic. In terms of security, window staff are not intended to protect buildings. For this security mission, SNCB has other means. Thus the stations of Lessines, Peruwelz, Leuze and Enghien are equipped with intrusion detection systems as well as surveillance cameras. These stations are also included in the Securail patrol scheme. A cooperation agreement with the authorities already exists for Leuze station. A discussion is under way for the stations of Lessines, Péruwelz and Enghien. In addition, a free phone number to the monitoring centre 0800 30 230 is available. I am aware that a human presence at the station ensures a social control function. SNCB has also contacted the municipalities concerned with a view to concluding, as a matter of priority, a partnership agreement with each of them aimed at maintaining a form of social life and reception at these stations. Ms Lahaye-Battheu, for any dossier to be approved by the SNCB Board of Directors, SNCB is obliged to await this decision before communicating it. In this case, the Governing Board has given its agreement, subject to a number of amendments to be made. According to SNCB, these were applied in the following hours and the municipalities concerned were informed of the decision taken the following day. In the meantime, a dozen meetings have already been held and others have been planned. I have a list of the activity rates per window that I will deliver to you in writing. The departure of IC train AM96 and a few P trains at Poperinge requires the presence of station staff, partly used at the counter. The deployment of new equipment on these trains is not on the agenda in the short term. Only when this happens and as a result of this would the station staff be assigned other tasks will SNCB at that time analyse whether it is justified to continue this service with specific point of contact and this according to the standards applied in the recent analysis. SNCB will no longer maintain Wervik's station building. There have already been fruitful contacts with the municipality to find a new destination for this building. It is true that Koksijde will be kept open until at least 1 October 2015. The station building of Koksijde is owned by the municipality of Koksijde. SNCB will negotiate with the municipality about the end of the agreement and will find a solution in this context to provide maximum service to passengers within the means available to it. Customers can use alternative sales channels such as local ticket machines or online sales via the site or mobile app.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u147	Madam Minister, thank you for your complete answer this time and for the elements that will reassure us of the non-closure of these stations despite the closure of the windows.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u148	Madam Minister, thank you for the detailed answer and for the figures on the level of activity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u149	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u150	As far as Poperinge is concerned, I note that there was actually wrong communication that the station could be closed in 2016. You say that it can only be closed if new equipment can be installed for which the staff is no longer required.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u151	Madam President, Madam Minister, on April 22, I asked you about the publication in the press which announced that two measures were being taken to reduce noise pollution during the overflight of the Walloon Brabant. As a reminder, these are the following two measures: the end of the step descents and the implementation of the NADP procedure1. In your response, you told me that these two measures should have come into effect on June 25. Minister, I would like to come back to you and ask you whether these two measures were actually implemented on the scheduled date. I would also like to know whether you have already received a return from Belgocontrol on the correct application by air traffic controllers and pilots of the aforementioned improvements?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u152	Minister, a forward-looking question in connection with the announcement by the federal government of its willingness to find a structural solution to the problem of the overflight of Brussels, the Flemish Region and the Walloon Region. What consultations have you conducted in order to identify the structural solutions that will reduce noise pollution to the benefit of all the populations that have been overrun? Have you listed and assessed these potential measures in order to prepare the federal government's future decisions on this issue? Have you proposed measures to your federal government partners? Have any intercabinets ever taken place? Are you in favour of a partial modification of the air routes in order to avoid the most densely populated areas? If so, what are your proposals? Are you in favour of the introduction of the environmental night, i.e. an extension of the night between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.? The government agreement announces the creation of an independent noise control authority around Brussels-National Airport. What is the state of consultation with the Regions on this project?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u153	Madam President, with regard to Mr Crusnière's question, the CDO (Continuous Descent Operations) procedure was amended to the AIP (Aeronautical Information Publication) of 25 June 2015 and now applies to all tracks. Yesterday, I went to the mayor of Wezembeek-Oppem, where we were able to check that the new procedures were being applied. NADP procedures were added to the PIA of 25 June 2015 and correspond to those in force until 19 September 2013, with the difference that airlines may, in the future, propose specific procedures subject to approval by DGTA. With regard to the correct application by air traffic controllers and pilots of the improvements mentioned above, it is still too early to have a return, but I can tell you that I maintain constant contact with Belgocontrol and the airlines so that these rules, but also all the others, are properly applied. I asked for a report on the application of these two measures. As far as Mrs Lalieux's question is concerned, after having received all the associations several times, I have, for a good month, begun regular visits to all the municipalities in Brussels in order to meet the mayors of the communes overflew and to give maximum priority to listening and consultation with the local authorities with a view to relieving the residents. These meetings are very enriching and allow me to list their requests. Meanwhile, the Vliegwet is being prepared in accordance with the government agreement and will ensure the necessary legal stability in this matter. I wish to establish in a legal way a procedural framework and rules for the adoption of flight procedures and operating restrictions at Brussels-National airport, in a transparent manner. Future structural measures will then take place within a legal, precise, undisputed and well-known framework for better legal certainty. The Government will ensure the creation of an independent noise control authority in order to fight in a transparent and coordinated manner against the nuisances generated by air transport around Brussels-National airport. I can assure you, Ms.Lalieux, that everything is going well with the government's partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u154	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u155	Minister, thank you also for your answers. To avoid all these round trips and discussions on the tracks, the change of list, overflights, etc. It is time to have a bill that stabilizes this matter and, I hope (for you have not answered me on this point), which will relieve the densely populated areas of citizens, be they Brussels, Flemish or Walloon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u156	Madam Secretary, this question is about the alcohol lock. Given the advanced hour, I'll cut my question short. Since 1 October 2010, our judges have been able to impose an alcohol lock on drivers who indicate a minimum alcohol concentration of 0.5 grams and a maximum of 0.8 grams per litre in their blood. However, so far little use has been made of this alcohol lock. In February, you replied to me in this committee that only 21 people have applied to the BIVV to follow a framework programme. Two of these were then completed, 14 programmes were still running and four would start in the short term. Several reasons for this lack of application are possible. Judges would prefer to impose a driving ban, there would be practical problems, there would be high costs and so on. In your reply in February, you referred, among other things, to the Netherlands where there is an administrative system that automatically imposes an alcohol lock on the offender for two years from 1.3 permille onwards. You said that you were thinking about going to an automatic decline of the right to direct in our country too. You referred to the preventive effects of an alcohol lock. In France, school buses would have an alcohol lock. Your own municipality would be the only Belgian municipality with an alcohol lock on the buses for passenger transport in general. I have some follow-up questions. Firstly, how many people have decided since 1 October 2010 not to drive during the period of limited validity of the licence so that the framework programme should not be followed? Secondly, what is the state of play of the study to possibly introduce the Dutch system here? Thirdly, what initiatives are you considering using the alcohol lock more preventively?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u157	Madam President, the best prevention for driving alcohol is that when you drive, you don't drink! Despite the regionalisation of the campaigns, I still believe that Bob's concept, coupled with regular controls and a credible sanctions policy, will still play an important role in prevention. With regard to the alcohol lock, it should be repeated that the lock is not installed until the person concerned has already been convicted. It is essential that the offender actively and voluntarily participates in the framework programme. Otherwise, the use of such equipment would not have its effect. In addition to the high cost of more than EUR 3 000 per year for the installation and rental of an alcohol lock and for the framework programme, the explanation for the non-automatic imposition of the sanction by the court is therefore that the offender must agree to the installation of such a system. The offender may also choose not to drive during the hours of his conviction. In the Netherlands, an administrative system of 1.3 to 1.8/1,000 has been adopted. This system automatically imposes on the offender an anti-start ethylotest for a period of two years, to which must be added the criminal conviction and the fine. The only alternative to anti-start ethylotest is a five-year demise declaration. The effect of this regulation is that in the Netherlands approximately 4,000 anti-start ethylotests are installed. Approximately as many people are deprived of the right to drive for a period of five years, mainly because they cannot afford an anti-start ethylotest. On 4 March 2015, the Dutch counterpart of the Council of State annulled the legal provision relating to the alcohol lock for conflicting with the principle of proportionality, inter alia because of the lack of an individual assessment possibility. In addition, the Dutch Supreme Court points out the non-compliance with the principle of nona in idem, in that, in addition to the administrative penalty, a criminal penalty is imposed for the same infringement. The result of these recent developments is that at present in the Netherlands no new anti-start ethylotest can be installed until a new regulation is drawn up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u158	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for her reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u159	Madam Chair, Minister, a lot of water has been flowing under bridges since my first question was tabled on June 19. The Board of Directors, which had dealt with serious management deficiencies in two subsidiaries of the SCNB, Eurostation and Euro Immo Star, decided to forward the results of the audits to the Public Prosecutor's Office. However, after this first stage, it is essential to know whether the Chairman of the Board of Directors is still in a position to assume his or her role, given the elements involved and the potential follow-up to the events. His Chairmanship of the Board of Directors could be called into question, as the audit reports revealed that he was directly involved in the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u160	I'll be brief. Mr Fonck has already framed the situation, and my question is what is out of date since the Management Board has already taken a decision. Many malpractices have emerged from the audits. On Friday 19 June 2015, the Board of Directors of SNCB discussed this. It has decided to transfer the Eurostation and Euro Immo Star files to the court. In the Committee of 10 June 2015, you said that for any use that differs from the use set out in the basic contract, the consent of Ernst & Young is required. What is the legal advice of the law firm DLA Piper? Have any legally enforceable facts been discovered? Is there any more news? What impact does SNCB have on the audit? Is she waiting for the parole board's decision? What persons have committed persecutable acts? Can you explain this? Is Ernst & Young's approval necessary to hand over the audit to the court? If so, was that approval requested?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u161	I will not repeat the questions put by my fellow Members. We have always said that morally reprehensible things are happening and that there would be legal consequences. That's a matter for the court. I am interested to look at the branch itself; the financial result and the financial impact on SNCB. So we know what amounts we're talking about. A hotel stay of so many thousands of euros is a beautiful headline. Secretary of State has already quit for less. What was the financial impact of Eurostation on SNCB in 2012, 2013 and 2014? What was the net result? I asked this last time, but I didn't get an answer. I believe that my two questions are very clear and that they can be answered this time. My fellow Members have already asked about the outcome of the Management Board.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u162	Madam President, the Board of Directors of SNCB continued its analysis of the external audits of its three subsidiaries, Eurogare, Eurostation and Euro Immo Star, on Friday 19 June 2015. I recall that it was at my request that these audits were carried out and that my predecessors could have requested them. The various reports of Ernst & Young contain mainly recommendations for improvement of internal governance. At its meeting on 28 May 2015, the Board of Directors had already taken steps to strengthen the governance rules of its subsidiaries. The Management Board shall closely and regularly monitor the implementation of these measures and shall adapt them where necessary. At the end of the analysis and on the basis of the conclusions of external legal opinions, the Management Board considers that the report which specifically concerns the two subsidiaries, Eurostation and Euro Immo Star, contains elements for which the Board cannot assess the judicial qualification. The Council considers it useful to bring the report to the attention of the public prosecutor. On the other hand, the Board considers that the Eurogare report does not contain any elements requiring further action. As the case is brought to justice, we will let her do her job. We will therefore not communicate any other information. In reply to Mr Geerts' question, a summary of the net results of Eurostation for 2012, 2013 and 2014 can be found in the annexed table. The cumulative amount of dividends received by SNCB for the financial years 2012, 2013 and 2014 shall be EUR 14 995 000.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u163	Madam Minister, thank you, but you did not answer the question I asked you. Frankly, what has happened and what is happening is totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u164	It's not from today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u165	This is not today, but the audits are on the table today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u166	They're here because I asked for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u167	It's your responsibility. Since you've been here, should we recall that a few months ago, it was in March, I think, the CEO of SNCB pointed out the president of SNCB by accusing him of magoyles in the attribution of studies and possible corruption in a real estate transaction in India. In April, he was again pointed in the press as the president's special office was targeted at a million euros. Today, we have audits where the same president of SNCB is directly involved in relation to practices which, in any case, I say, seem totally unacceptable, and in cases which are now referred to the prosecutor's office. The question is whether with this succession of facts, since you have been a minister – I am not going back to old elements, but to those that occurred under your mandate – he is still able to assume his functions as chairman of the board of directors. For me, SNCB deserves better than repeated titles in this direction and, above all, commuters deserve better and expect more from SNCB than that. I believe that this requires decisions in terms of both management and practices within SNCB. I hope that you will take your responsibilities in relation to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u168	Madam President, I would like to repeat what Mr Fonck says. According to her, the minister is waiting too long to do something about it. Everyone falls right out of the sky here. An audit was carried out by the Court of Auditors in 2012. I was not here at the time, but other colleagues were already here. The audit contained similar conclusions to those found in Ernst & Young's reports. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u169	It is also a question for me why it takes so long for something to be done about it. The N-VA is therefore pleased that it is finally being continued, because such things cannot be done. A hotel stay of EUR 2 000 may not be punishable, but it is certainly not acceptable in public opinion for a railway company where many workers probably have to work a whole month for perhaps less than EUR 2 000 net. What I believe should be properly examined is whether contracts have been awarded without complying with public procurement legislation. That's what I want to know. Which companies were then awarded the contracts and why the procedures were not applied. I hope that these things will finally emerge and that we can take the appropriate measures to make SNCB a healthy business, which focuses on its core tasks, namely safe and timely rail transport for passengers. Megalomaniac prestige projects at home or abroad do not benefit the traveller much.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u170	Madam Minister, if I had known what I know today in 2012, 2013 or 2014, I would have gone into this more seriously. I would like to admit that those who have followed the matter closely should have carried out our monitoring task better. That hotel night of EUR 2 000 is absolutely morally reprehensible to me. However, I specifically asked for the financial results and the impact on dividends, because we must be careful not to focus solely on the headline on the EUR 2 000 per night. The accumulated dividends amounted to 15 million euros for SNCB and the net result of 8.5 million euros was net positive by 2.4 million. So we must not throw the child away with the bath water. We need to look at what has actually happened. Foreign companies may now be doing what has been done in Belgium, apart from the fact that there have been malpractices that cannot be tolerated. However, the government must consider carefully whether, in whatever form, certain activities carried out by the companies cannot provide financial added value. If we want to delete it simply because of the malpractices, then we will have to look elsewhere for the 15 million. That's what I'm afraid of. That is why I hope that an analysis will be carried out, otherwise the traveller or the taxpayer will suffer twice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-01-54-commissie-ic210x.u171	Colleagues, we are coming to the end of our afternoon. Questions that have not been dealt with are transformed into written questions. All questions that you are submitting from now on must be written questions, as there will be no more question-and-answer by July 21.
