ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-30-54-commissie-ic131x.u1	I think this is a matter which unfortunately remains relevant. Minister, almost three months ago, on 9 January, Saudi blogger Raif Badawi received 50 lashes, which are part of a larger sentence of a thousand lashes spread over twenty weeks and ten years in prison. The subsequent sessions were repeatedly postponed because of Mr. Badawi's dramatic state of health, which would no longer allow him to endure further whipping sessions. Imprisoned in 2012, Raif Badawi was sentenced in November for insulting Islam. Badawi was the host of the website 'Liberal Saudi Network' and the blog 'Free Saudi Liberals'. He was the 2014 winner of the Reporters Without Borders Award. He was a fierce defender of freedom of expression. He called for an end to religious influence in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, equality between religious beliefs, the right to freely choose one's religion and other such measures. Minister, what have you done in practice and what are you going to do to try to get this brutal and inhuman punishment overturned? What steps, what convictions are possible to have this punishment reviewed or possibly convince the new King of Saudi Arabia to grant his pardon to Mr. Badawi? Could the multiple contacts at the highest level and the good relations between our two countries highlighted during the March 2014 economic mission not be put to use today in this matter? I have heard that on 2 March last, during your speech at the 28th session of the Human Rights Council, you said that "it is difficult to imagine that an individual writing on an isolated blog will be sentenced to imprisonment and, worse still, corporal punishment". Beyond this cautious remark, what concrete actions have you already taken against this country already regarded as an ally? Other countries dare to act with much more force and determination. I am thinking in particular of Sweden, which recently announced that it was cancelling a military cooperation agreement with Saudi Arabia, which has recently led that country to remind its ambassador in Stockholm. I am also thinking of Canadian Foreign Minister John Baird, who publicly denounced this corporal punishment as a violation of human dignity and freedom of expression, and who called on Saudi authorities to show mercy. For its part, the United Nations denounced a cruel and inhuman sentence, and on 9 February last, the Minister-President of the Wallonia-Brussels federation, Rudy Demotte, denounced the extreme moral seriousness of the acts committed in Saudi Arabia after this sentence of another age, stating that he was going to write to you asking you to act in this matter. I thank you for the clarifications you can give to my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-30-54-commissie-ic131x.u2	Minister, on the same subject, a woman who had been subjected to violent group rape in Saudi Arabia was sentenced to 200 lashes and 6 months in prison. Initially, the woman was sentenced to 90 lashes after being imprisoned following rape in 2006 for violating the Kingdom's religious dictum on gender segregation. However, his lawyer had appealed to the Saudi General Court, resulting in the decision to double the sentence. He then contacted the media. The Court immediately prohibited the lawyer from defending the young woman at a later date, confiscating her as a lawyer and ordering her to attend a disciplinary hearing during this month. Saudi Arabia defended its controversial decision to punish the victim by claiming that she was in a criminal situation for leaving her home without a male member of her family.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-30-54-commissie-ic131x.u3	This judgment rightly causes indignation in the international media. This situation runs counter to fundamental rights, including the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. It also illustrates the current position of women in Saudi society. So, Minister, how do Belgium and the European Union stand towards this kind of obvious human rights violations, especially with regard to women in this country? Do you intend to address the subject of human rights, and therefore women's rights, in your bilateral talks with Saudi Arabia?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-30-54-commissie-ic131x.u4	Madam President, Minister, my question dates from 15 January 2015. Unfortunately, however, it is still topical. In Saudi Arabia, the blogger Raif Badawi was imprisoned and sentenced to a thousand lashes for setting up an online forum and sending critical tweets. Mr Minister, although the Netherlands, Germany and Denmark have already responded, I have not yet heard a public response from you until the time of my question, which was therefore 15 January 2015. I regret to note that the European Union's response was limited to a weak statement by High Representative Mogherini. Badawi was denied recognition as a human rights defender. There was also no call for release and no reference to the cruel punishment. There was also no plea for the right to freedom of expression. I would like to receive an answer from you to the following questions. Firstly, Minister, when will there be a public response from you with a strong condemnation of the restriction of freedom of expression? Secondly, will you raise the matter at a forthcoming Council meeting and call for a firmer EU response?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-30-54-commissie-ic131x.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I share your concern about the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia and about the fate of the blogger Raif Badawi and other people in Saudi Arabia. This is a cruel punishment, prohibited by the Convention against Torture and other cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment, of which Saudi Arabia is a party. In its statement, the European Union immediately reiterated its strong opposition to this type of treatment or punishment. It called on the Saudi authorities to suspend any form of corporal punishment against Mr Badawi and to consider putting an end to the practice of caning. Moreover, the issue was raised by Belgium and the European Union during recent bilateral contacts. We will continue our efforts. As I have already done in interviews, I further confirm that we particularly condemn such practices, contrary to the conventions ratified by Saudi Arabia in respect of torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. I have already asked on several occasions for an end to these treatments. Moreover, this issue has given rise to a number of bilateral discussions conducted by Belgium. Mr. Dallemagne referred to letters that I received from regional ministers-presidents on the subject. I confirm that I hope that the Regions will also be able to use their influence in this area, since sometimes, including through companies wholly owned by a Region, very important businesses are organised with Saudi Arabia. I therefore assume that, in the course of the discussions on these contracts, public representatives in these companies are very much involved on the subject of human rights. During all my contacts with representatives of Saudi Arabia, I confirm that I have the opportunity to intervene in this way. Mr Blanchart, this is not the first time that we have the opportunity to refer to such situations, and, of course, whatever the persons concerned, the attitude is the same, even if a certain situation has been particularly followed. You have also noted other situations in which the European Union, such as Belgium, has already had the opportunity on several occasions to express their opposition to the types of treatment or punishment inflicted. As with all other countries, human rights are an integral part of our bilateral relations with Saudi Arabia and I can assure you that Belgium deals with this issue very regularly. When I speak of human rights, I am of course thinking in particular of women's rights in a country like Saudi Arabia. This is part of a regular dialogue within the framework of the European Union's relations with that country. I am also of the view that Mr Badawi's case must be seen in a broader context, by banning all forms of corporal punishment, from stoning to flogging because, like stoning, flogging is prohibited by the Convention and therefore has to be postponed, which I shall continue to use. In the context of human rights and on the occasion of the last universal periodic review of Saudi Arabia in October 2013, Belgium made recommendations to the Saudi government with regard to freedom of expression and association. Mr Dallemagne, I can reassure you that the terms used during the speeches in Geneva are very clear and well understood by all participants. I hope that they are used by all the other speakers. In any case, I wanted to focus more specifically on Mr Badawi's case in my speech. Madam President, we will therefore continue our actions in this area and I hope that we will be able to reach a solution not only in one particular case but also in a wider way on the whole situation in Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-30-54-commissie-ic131x.u6	Minister, the terms are clear and I welcome them. You're going to ask for things to stop. You recalled Saudi Arabia's violation of the international human rights instruments it has signed. Finally, these condemnations do not change the behaviour of Saudi Arabia, which persists in its totally degrading, inhuman and barbaric behaviour. There are no other terms. Recently, on social media, we saw the public beheading of a woman by the police of this regime. It's absolutely amazing. It should also be recalled that this regime exports Salafism and has played an extremely important role in destabilising the whole region. Yet, it remains an important ally. Half-worded, you recalled that we export a lot of weapons to this country. I think everyone has a responsibility, not just the Regions, but the federal state too. It is time to have a thorough reflection on our relations with this type of country. It is intolerable to see that words are being paid in relation to a situation that is equally serious for Saudis, for foreigners living in Saudi Arabia and also for the countries of the region. Moreover, it is even more worrying to see how all the analysts we are asking about what is happening to us today in terms of security, terrorism and radicalism clearly point to the role that Saudi Arabia has played and continues to play. It is really time for a major political review on the type of relations to be maintained with these countries. Mr Miller, the federal state is responsible for the code of conduct on arms exports. It's too easy to go and reject the fault. Tell it to your friends at the MR in Liège! Let them express themselves clearly about this! I, for my part, express myself clearly on this subject. The vote is taken fully at all levels. We are here at the federal level and it is still the federal state that is responsible for implementing the code of conduct on arms exports.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-30-54-commissie-ic131x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Blanchart has the floor!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-30-54-commissie-ic131x.u8	Madam President, thank you. I almost blame myself for interrupting such an interesting conversation between my two colleagues. These are the fun sides of politics, but things have to be said! Mr Minister, I am obviously not surprised at your positions, which are those of a democrat as well as ours. So I agree. That said, what Mr Dallemagne was talking about is correct. Although there are indications and demands for respect for democracy, it must be noted that this country is not only committing barbaric acts, but is also highly suspected of financing criminal operations. We must therefore continue to put pressure, while remaining aware that we do not weigh heavy next to Saudi Arabia. I am thinking in particular of the economic contracts we have with this country. This may be the theory of the striped disc, but I hope it will bear fruit one day. Indeed, according to this model of society, human rights go to the background in the name of the predominance of revealed truths, as is all too often the case these days.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-30-54-commissie-ic131x.u9	I call on the federal and Flemish governments to keep the pressure on the regime high so that Mr Badawi is released in the short term, according to the latest information, he loses his health and so that the ugly sides of that regime are filed off. Not so long ago, I saw in a newspaper a comparison between the views of Daesh and Saudi Arabia on certain offences. In case of theft, both hands can be cut off. In an insult to Islam, the punishments go to decapitation. There's no big difference between the two. Since Saudi Arabia is still in the western camp, we have plenty of opportunities to urge them to change, both in terms of freedom of opinion and political freedoms and in terms of justice. The kind of punishment that is being carried out there is no longer of this time.
