ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u1	Mr Minister, my question concerns the response of the OCMWFs. The employment is described in Article 60 as a form of social services in which the OMCW provides a job to a person who has left the labour market or has fallen, with the aim of bringing it back into the social security system and into the labour market. In that case, the OCMW is always the legal employer. The Centre may employ the person in his own services or make him available to a third employer. It receives a grant from the federal government for the duration of the employment and benefits as an employer from an exemption from employers' contributions. Today, however, OCMW's that make extra use of social employment can be billed unintentionally for this. I can talk to you about that from my own experience. Last year, my own annual accounts at the OCMW gave me quite a shock over the negative consequences of this. After all, getting clients to work with a living wage in the private sector often remains very difficult, so social employment usually takes place within the OCMW's own management. In this case, the costs associated with this employment for the OCMW are often a lot higher than the costs borne by the OCMW for clients with a living wage who are not employed socially, especially when it is assumed that not all social employment can be achieved. That is regrettable, but it is the reality. Work is still the best guarantee against poverty. It would therefore be more logical for OMCWs to be better encouraged and supported to focus on activation of persons on a living wage and thus not suffer any disadvantages. That's what we all want, I think. I know that the competence for Article 60 has been transferred to the Regions with the sixth state reform, but funding is still carried out through the National Employment Service. The coalition agreement also contains a clear passage on the responsiveness of OCMWs: "The government is investigating how it can better encourage the OCMWs through positive incentives in order to increase efforts and thereby increase the flow of wage-earners to sustainable work and social inclusion." Mr Minister, have you already started an investigation into exactly how you intend to deal with this? If so, what is the state of play? If not, when do you intend to start doing so? What criteria will you use? What support do the OCMWs get for extra activation? What actions could possibly be taken for OMCWs that are not or limited to activation? How are we going to reactivate them? How will a proportionate and fair distribution of subsidies be developed in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know and say, since the sixth state reform, the Regions have been responsible for socio-professional activation. As regards Article 60 (7), it is true that jurisdiction was transferred to the Regions. My administration only serves as a unique point of payment, and the Regions will now determine the substantive direction of this measure. I hope to be able to discuss with the Regions about activation at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Labour Market Policy, which was extended to include socio-professional and social issues in my request. As Minister for Social Integration, I am responsible for social activation, a subject to which I attach great importance. Social activation is very valuable to lead people for whom the step to work is too big, to self-reliance and can be an important step towards socio-professional activation. With the socio-professional exemption and the individualised project for social integration (GPMI), I have two tools at my disposal that I wish to improve, as stipulated in the government agreement, in order to use them to help people move to sustainable work. I also support the OCMWFs on social activation, through clustering for the smaller OCMWFs and through the increased state grant for the large OCMWFs. Research missions have been launched for the reform of both the socio-professional exemption and the GPMI. The aim of both studies is to gather policy recommendations that allow these tools to be more and better focused on activation. It is my intention to improve these instruments and see to what extent I can adjust the social activation subsidy policy in order to join this reform. As provided for in the coalition agreement, I would like to develop a subsidy system with longer-term objectives that is responsive and result-oriented. I expect the results of these studies at the end of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The end of your answer was particularly important. How this needs to be properly completed in order to improve flow is absolutely a first step. I also know that this is a matter for the Regions. However, as you say, the point of payment is currently the problem here and there. There is the adverse effect that OCMW debt holders who are very hard on activation pay the bill. I can hear you say at the end of your reply that in your social activation subsidy policy you will nevertheless take into account the sentence in the government agreement that really refers to the OMFFs' response. I'll wait for the results at the end of the year and I'll definitely come back to them. Take what I give you again, because this is an unintentional effect that creates a counterproductive situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u4	Madam President, Minister, anyone who is not legally resident in our country is entitled to urgent medical assistance. This applies to preventive and curative care, after-care, outpatient care and care in a nursing establishment. However, the government has not specified to which medical care people without a legal right of residence are entitled or not. It is up to the doctor to decide whether medical care is necessary to protect the physical and mental integrity of the person. In order to clarify this, the government agreement states that the principle of urgent medical assistance to persons without legal residence is maintained. The notion of urgency is clarified, in consultation with the medical experts, without leading to a list of conditions that may or may not be considered to be borne by the federal state. In that context, Minister, I would like to ask you whether this consultation with the medical experts has already started and what is the state of play? Do you have any idea how the doctors themselves interpret the concept of "urgent character"? How diverse is that filled out? In order to demonstrate that a person who is not legally resident in the territory needs urgent medical attention, a certificate must be drawn up by an approved doctor. Should that urgency attestation be drawn up at the start of the social examination by the OCMW and therefore before the start of the treatment, or is that attestation only required when the file for reimbursement is submitted? That is why there is some discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u5	Madam President, Mrs Van Peel, in order to start consultations with medical experts, I asked the Order of Medicine at the beginning of this year to draw up proposals and recommendations and to consult with my administration on them. In the absence of an answer, I have recently sent a reminder and, if necessary, I will examine other slopes in order to be able to hold that consultation. To your second question, I can answer that doctors do indeed judge whether or not medical care is urgent, as they are best placed to carry out that evaluation. However, the invoices and the certificate for urgent medical care will then be checked by an Auxiliary Cash Advisory Officer for Sickness and Invalidity Insurance. These controls show that there are few anomalies, but that does not mean that we would benefit from a better definition of the aspect of urgency, as provided for in the coalition agreement. Finally, I come to your final question. The doctor shall draw up the emergency medical certificate at the beginning of the treatment. That certificate is only required for reimbursement of medical costs. An OCMW can therefore start and conduct a social investigation before the treatment begins. Since it is often about medical urgency, it will not always be possible. For medical costs already incurred with the new reimbursement procedure through MediPRIMA, the certificate is kept by the healthcare provider. In other cases, the certificate and the invoice shall be kept by the OMCW.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u6	Madam President, Minister, this question too, if I understand correctly, is a question to which we will have to come back at a later date. I will.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u7	Mr Minister, I have an extensive question for you about the BFSA's control of bisphenol A. I have to give a little introduction to that. The European Food Agency has recently made the TDI-Iimite less stringent for bisphenol A. Products may therefore contain more bisphenol A than was originally determined as a precautionary measure. This is particularly dramatic and incomprehensible for food packaging. In 2011, EFSA itself stated that bisphenol A should only be used if the migration limit of the packaging remained below 0.6 mg/kg of food. So we are exposed to far too much bisphenol A. This is certainly the case for young people. Minister, the BFSA has been conducting analyses on bisphenol A for years. The newsletter shows that in 2010 18 analyses were carried out on cups in polycarbonate and 40 on suction lessons. The results were reassuring then, but is that still the case today? Can you give me an overview of the BFSA's analyses on bisphenol A in recent years? After all, that is just an element. What's the results of these analyses? Is there a difference in exposure by age? An important question is whether you agree with me that hormone disruptors, such as bisphenol A, should be banned from food packaging and not just for children under the age of three. Can you give me details of the quantities of bisphenol A in the Belgian production of polycarbonate? Do you agree with me that our chemical industry should innovate towards a greener chemistry with non-harmful alternatives to the very dangerous product bisphenol A?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u8	Mrs Dedry, the European Food Authority has published a recent opinion on bisphenol A. The opinion concludes that the current exposure does not pose a risk to the health of consumers of any age group, including unborn children, infants and adolescents, because the exposure is too low. However, some uncertainties remain regarding the toxic effects of BPA, which were taken into account by EFSA in its evaluation. In view of those uncertainties, the Authority temporarily reduced the authorised daily intake of BPA. The European Commission is currently working on a document to be discussed at the next meeting of experts on materials in contact with food. The purpose of that document is to establish new measures at European level in order to ensure that the current legislation comes in accordance with the opinion of the Authority. I can assure you that my administration and myself are following the dossier very closely and that I will support any European measure that goes towards more precautionary measures on the basis of that EFSA opinion. As regards the controls, the BFSA has been carrying out analyses of the migration of bisphenol A for more than ten years. Samples were taken of utensils specifically intended for small children, such as suction bottles, plates or cutlery, as well as other objects such as cups. The vast majority of the analyses were carried out on polycarbonate, of which bisphenol A is a building block. However, in a limited number of cases, other substances were also investigated, in order to obtain a precise idea of the degree of contamination with bisphenol A. Between 2005 and 2014, a total of 630 samples were taken, of which only one was not in conformity with the category of other objects. In the samples examined by the BFSA, therefore, the legal standard was almost always respected. Controls have shown that bisphenol A is in particular less used in recent years, especially for children's utensils. You also asked about the quantities of bisphenol A in the Belgian production of polycarbonate. We do not have such figures. Nevertheless, the nature of the measures in this respect would not be affected by the production of polycarbonate in Belgium. As far as alternatives to bisphenol A are concerned, the industry has been researching replacements for use in the food industry for several years. However, these studies take a long time and the industry must show us that the replacement products do not pose a risk to consumers. I'd say that's for sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u9	Thank you, Minister. The most important thing in the dossier is, for me, respect for the precautionary principle. So I am disappointed when you answer that you want to wait for a document from the European Commission. According to our intelligence, that advice would not be delivered until the end of 2016. Then we'll be more than a year and a half. What also strikes me in your reply is that you continue to talk about our legislation on children under three years of age. You did not answer my question as to whether you would like to extend the ban to children over three years old, say to everyone. The substance is also harmful for adults. We are talking about bisphenol A all the time and that is what my question was about. Meanwhile, however, there is already bisphenol S, which is equally harmful. Therefore, from the point of view of the precautionary principle, I am not entirely satisfied with your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u10	Madam Chair, Minister, I will merge my two questions to simplify our exchange. As the President has just pointed out, measures had been taken by the previous government to limit integration allowances. In early March, the Walloon CPAS had to process more than 5,900 cases of people arriving at the end of their rights. Initially, we expected 12,000 people to be affected. However, only 27.8% of them came into the CPAS. Of these 27,8 per cent, about 70 per cent met the eligibility criteria for integration income. In short, 72% of individuals have unfortunately disappeared from radars. We don't know where they are or what they're doing. This figure is of concern to the CPAS. Secondly, the end of the integration allowance and entry into the CPAS lead to an increase in the financial and administrative burden for social action actors such as CPAS. However, as you know, full-time equivalent personnel in most CPAS have steadily declined. This, therefore, obsesses socio-occupational integration policies. The Federation of CPAS of Wallonia asked you about these two points. Integration income was increased by 5% in July 2014. The government agreement promises to increase it further by 3%. However, since this increase will only be possible on 1 July, which will run from the beginning of January to the end of June? Moreover, we are no longer talking about increasing the subsidisation of staff costs, which now amount to €320 per integration income file. This amount has not been indexed since 2007. If it had been, the increase would have been 50 euros per CPAS, per year and per file. This would have allowed a slight compensation, especially since the Federation of CPAS Wallonia estimates that the cost is not 320 euros per file, but rather 830. Minister, are you aware of any requests from the Wallonia CPAS Federation? Does the government envisage measures for the care of these "social ghosts"? If so, which ones? Should this increase not be granted quickly, especially since the previous government had said that this issue would be fully resolved for the end of the integration allowances? What would be the terms of such compensation, the exact amounts and the timing? Would it not be time to move towards an increase in this rate of reimbursement, as well as an increase in staff costs?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u11	Madam President, Minister, my questions will go along with those that my colleague Eric Massin has just dealt with. Last January, you mentioned an oxygen balloon, a possibility that the federal government would bring a budget of €64 million to help municipalities, and in particular CPAS, to deal with the exclusion of unemployed people and beneficiaries of the integration training. As you know, the transfer over time of the insertion allowances has started to produce its effects since January 1, 2015. However, to date, we have not received any information regarding this compensatory measure. The situation is therefore becoming more and more critical for the CPAS, and therefore for the communal finances whose general situation is quite difficult in recent years. Minister, where are we? What about the EUR 64 million? You stated in the discussions on your policy line that if the budgeted amount were to prove insufficient, additional resources would be requested during the budgetary control? What is the situation today as a result of budgetary control?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for providing these figures. Before addressing these issues in depth, I would like to point out that we are talking about eight measures leading to the exclusion of a number of former beneficiaries or potential beneficiaries from the integration allowances. Measure 1, the one most currently mentioned, excludes a number of beneficiaries of integration allowances after three years. It was taken by the previous government and came into force earlier this year. Measures 2 to 6 are linked in particular to availability and other labour market factors. They were taken and entered into force under the previous government. Measures 7 to 8 relate to students who complete their academic career, their career in higher education after the age of 25 or who leave school before the age of 21 without a diploma. These measures have been taken by the current government. As far as the various elements of engagement are concerned, first of all, I wanted to have a clear view of the real figures. It is known how different the figures have been in terms of estimates. Corrections to the provisions were made at the end of the previous legislature. Estimates were made in the best possible way, without having all the parameters. I cited a number of figures indicating that they were provisional and that they were likely to evolve. That is why it is only now that I am able to communicate to the CPAS and to the government, with the greatest transparency and by informing Parliament, the precise figures you are asking for. If I had done so before, it would have been adventurous. I am thinking here of both the CPAS and the budget and Parliament. I come to the amounts available. On the occasion of budgetary control, we managed to provide for an additional amount. In doing so, for 2015, a total amount of €86,673,623 is currently foreseen for all measures limiting the integration allowance. Of this amount, €27,832,388 will be proposed as a specific compensation for CPAS. This afternoon, I'm going to meet the three CPAS federations. I intend to provide them with details of the calculation of this amount of €27,832,388. I believe I have assessed as accurately as possible the compensations of the previous measures, the compensation of Measure 1 based on 8,616 new integration income multiplied by twelve, for one year. It also takes into account an estimate of measures 7 and 8, which is quite difficult to make, and, moreover, a slight correction of an overpayment which my administration, the Social Integration PPS, sent me the details for measures 4 and 6 for the years 2012 and 2013. I keep all the details of these calculations at your disposal. My objective was, as I had indicated and as the government invited me to do, to fully compensate the additional costs for CPAS in terms of direct charges. I know that CPAS has had increasing or additional staff costs. I had the opportunity to visit a number of CPAS and observe the cells put in place. At present, I do not have the means to compensate for these elements, which are not direct costs. I do not despair of being able to take on additional elements. I'm working so I can do it in the future. But these are very important budgets. Transfers to CPAS represent considerable masses, which correspond to similar needs. You'll understand that I have to be careful before I tell you something. Today, according to my calculations, we fully realize the compensation of direct aid. I will finish by explaining how this will happen. In order to take into account both the wishes of the CPAS federations and the government agreement, by being as faithful as possible to reality, I will propose that the government act in two steps. In concrete terms, for 2015, I will propose to allocate these €27,832,388 according to the total integration income granted by CPAS over a reference period from May 2014 to April 2015. This will therefore give a lump sum per integration income. With regard to 2016, my intention is to amend the law to increase the reimbursement rate. We will then be in a range close to 3.5% of the increase in reimbursement rates. I use the words "nearly 3.5%" because I'm going to ask CPAS to do a little administrative work this year; it's an extra workload but, although it's essential, I want to apologize now. In fact, it is necessary that, at the end of the year, accurate information is available on persons who have benefited from integration income as a result of exclusion (number, category, duration). This will be done in two semesters in order to have a very precise view of the number, impact and duration of the grant of these integration income. I know that CPAS is doing a considerable amount of work to put a number of these people, like the other beneficiaries of integration income, back into the social, socio-occupational or vocational integration process. I conclude by stating that, indeed, both the Social Integration PPS and the CPAS alerted us and found, like me, that a number of people had not approached CPAS or had not been eligible for total or partial integration income. There are many explanations; they are linked in particular to the family situation, to the income of the family unit, to the development of the situation of the persons concerned. There may be people who, despite all the information efforts, have not been made aware of the possibility of using this net, this social intervention. As with other categories, in collaboration with the CPAS and the SPP Social Integration, in-depth work will be carried out on the subject. Irrespective of this category, independent of the figures, in the context of the accountability approach of the CPAS mentioned above, our aim is to have a proactive policy, which takes into account the very precarious situation of some people, which is of course responsible for them but which is also an active and social policy vis-à-vis these target groups but also vis-à-vis a number of target groups that you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u13	You'll have to learn how to synthesize answers like the questions. Mr Massin, you have the floor for a short reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u14	Madam President, I didn't expect to be very long. Minister, thank you for these figures. I think it was good to recall certain elements. The only thing I would like to recall, and your party was present in the previous government, was that it had been announced to the CPAS that they would have full compensation for the means exposed to the exclusion of the unemployment of those affected by the termination of rights in respect of integration allowances. I think that's an important element. I note that some efforts are being made. However, it is far from achieving all the commitments that have been made to the CPAS. In addition to these measures, there are the other measures to exclude unemployment previously decided. Your party was also a member of the former governments that took these steps. The CPAS had also been told that there would be full compensation in the context of the exclusion of unemployment. I can commend an effort, but you should put a little more strength of conviction to remind your partners, including your government colleagues who were present in the former governments, to deliver on their commitments. I speak outside of any political context. It's mostly for CPAS. They are taking measures that make it possible to do a real job of social or socio-occupational integration with people. I hope that we can find a solution for those who have disappeared from radars, which is really worrying in terms of society. When a government puts on the pediment of its policy statement that it wants to activate and leave no one on the edge of the road, I believe it is a good way to show that it is capable of delivering on its commitments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u15	Madam President, I promise you to be even shorter than my colleague! Minister, thank you for confirming the figures. I welcome the good work that has been done. If I calculated correctly, these figures have increased by more than $20 million compared to your initial return. This is evidence that work has been done within the government. But, as my colleague has said, it remains an important delta. I therefore invite you to increase this budget for next year because the municipalities are in great difficulty. When it is not the CPAS, it is necessarily the commune that pays for this delta. Some cities are even forced, and it is paradoxical, to dismiss staff in order to be able to pay the people who resort to the last social bulwark of our society in the midst of collapse. As regards the allocation of EUR 86 million, how soon can we obtain the figures refined by municipality?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u16	My intention was to answer today's questions, to have a consultation with the CPAS, to discuss it with the Council of Ministers and then to return individually to the CPAS.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u17	So it's a case to follow!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u18	Mr. Senesael is absent. I call on Mr Janssen and Mr de Lamotte to bring their two questions together in one speech. The minister will answer in block.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u19	Madam President, Minister, my first question was addressed to Minister De Block in her capacity as Minister of Health, but she asked you to answer in her place. My question was rather focused on the health aspects. The International Agency for Cancer Research of the WHO, the IARC, describes the weedcombing substance as likely to be carcinogenic. For the time being, the Public Health Office sees no reason to prohibit or reduce their use. We read and hear that you want to wait for the re-evaluation of EFSA, the European Food Safety Authority. So this is a delay. In my question to the Minister, I would like to reiterate the precautionary principle. Should it not be banned as a precaution, because this will undoubtedly harm the health of many of us? Does the government support this precautionary principle? If not, why not? If so, how does this translate? I do not see the precautionary principle being applied if people delay asking for advice. My second question came as a result of an answer from you in April to my question about Roundup. You also said that you wanted to wait for EFSA's opinion. In the meantime, we read that France wants to introduce a ban. The Netherlands has also announced a ban. France has made clear how they will deal with this so that the product can no longer stand in the shelves of the garden centres. We have still not introduced a ban, although we, as a Member State, have all the means to eradicate arthropods and to protect our health, as well as those of farmers. Meanwhile, there are already retailers in Europe who have taken the initiative themselves to remove arthropods from the racks. This means that in the meantime a number of countries have passed us by as a pioneer. I am thinking in particular of France and the Netherlands. There are even retailers who are more progressive than Belgium. Will you ban sales to private individuals on the basis of good examples in our neighbouring countries? Would you also like to have a survey of those species in agriculture? Do you have a visual on the use of them on our fields? Will you or your colleague also have the impact on the environment and health examined? I have also added a table with a number of figures to my question, which shows that there is an increase in the use of glysophate between 2010 and 2011. If there are more recent figures, I would like to receive them. There is a table on the use in agriculture and horticulture. There is also a table about the sale. That increase is even more alarming. Can you give me more recent figures in this respect? Finally, do you agree with me that this total herbicide destroys more in nature than just weeds? Don't you think there are better ecological ways to fight this kind of weed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u20	Madam President, Minister, the previous speaker has already raised a number of points and expressed a clear position. I would add that the Walloon Environment Minister had already asked the federally competent ministers on 29 May to ban this product. At the end of April, some environmental organizations had written to Minister De Block and you to possibly ban this product. What action have you taken with the other relevant ministers since the end of April, following the letter from the environmental organizations? What action have you taken with the other relevant ministers since the end of May, after the Walloon Environment Minister, Mr Di Antonio, asked the federally competent ministers to ban glysophate? Are you prepared to ban the weedkiller Roundup now, or are you just waiting for the end of the year to take action, given what Europe has said about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u21	Minister, I will sum up my two questions in one, since the issue has been raised. After the Netherlands, France has just positioned itself for the ban on the sale of Roundup to private individuals. This deherbant contains an active substance, glyphosate, which is recognized as a probable carcinogen by the International Centre for Cancer Research. In the field of pesticides, any active substance is assessed and subsequently authorised for 10 years at European level by EFSA, the European Food Safety Authority. For glyphosate, this authorisation expires at the end of December 2015. However, each country may authorise the placing on the market of commercial products, which contain one or more active substances approved by Europe. It is essential to prohibit in Belgium the placing on the market of glyphosate for individuals and municipal services. Indeed, this product classified as a probable carcinogen should not be used by uninformed individuals who often use it without protection and generally in overdose. Furthermore, aware of the need for occupational tolerance of the use of certain pesticides for the survival of many companies, it is necessary to apply more restrictive regulations to individuals than to professionals. On the other hand, for both individuals and professionals, we must significantly reduce pesticide use and encourage the use of alternatives that are more respectful of sustainable development. Minister, are you planning on making arrangements for the use of products containing glyphosate for the approval of plant protection products within your jurisdiction? Has a consultation with the Minister of Public Health and the Minister of the Environment already taken place or is it planned in the near future? Have you met the agricultural sector on this issue? If not, do you intend to do it? If so, what is their position?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u22	Madam President, the questions relating to arthropods were put to me to the Minister for Health, Mrs De Block, and to the Minister for the Environment, Mrs Marghem, because plant protection products are within my remit. I manage these dossiers, taking into account the aspects relating to public health and the environment. I will therefore answer the questions put to my fellow Members and directly to me in a global way. As all speakers have said, the publication of the International Agency for Cancer Research, the IARC, is worrying. I took this publication very seriously. Just after it appeared, I asked my administration for a detailed analysis. After all, I am following closely the evolution of scientific knowledge on the potential risks posed by plant protection products. So I did not wait for the letter from my colleague, Minister Di Antonio, to act. The analysis has shown that the IARC has not yet published a detailed evaluation, but only a note and an article of two pages, which do not allow for a scientific and objective analysis of the conclusions of the IARC. On the basis of the contacts that my administration has had, it appears that the full IARC report will not be available before the end of the year. At present, the adoption of arthropods at European level is being reviewed. The report of Germany, the rapporteur Member State, is based on relevant studies published over the last 10 years, including those evaluated by the IARC. Germany is not classified as a carcinogen. The Authority, the European Food Safety Authority, will evaluate the information on satsumas and will publish an opinion by the end of the summer. It is on the basis of that opinion and in consultation with the Member States that a decision will be taken on a possible renewal of the approval of this substance at European level. The decision will be taken by experts on the basis of scientific data and in accordance with the principles laid down in the European regulations in force. Finally, in other international evaluations, the classification referred to as carcinogenic is contradicted. The conclusion of the IARC is, for the time being, questionable, because it is not well founded. In conclusion, today we cannot claim that the molecule is carcinogenic. However, under the precautionary principle, the Minister of Health and I must ensure that a series of precautions are taken in terms of the information, use, precautions and dosage of the products concerned. In addition, I asked my administration to quickly assess the full IARC report and the EFSA's findings as soon as they were available. Believe that we are doing everything we can to ensure that, in the name of the precautionary principle, the scientific analysis of measures is carried out with the necessary attention. As far as authorisations are concerned, I would like to point out that measures are already in place in our country to ensure that plant protection products are used as correctly as possible. Authorizations are only issued after an in-depth study of the risks to human health and the environment, whether for amateur or professional use. Very strict additional provisions are laid down in our legislation, excluding certain products for amateur use and providing for a limited exposure of the user. For all pesticides, both amateur and professional users are required to follow carefully the precautionary measures and maximum dosages defined in the conditions of use of glyphosate. I would also like to point out that, from the end of November, all stores offering plant protection products for sale will have to have qualified personnel with recognised specific training – phytolicence – as well as communication tools to advise buyers as best they can. The sale of these products will thus become more professional, so that the consumer and user will be more widely informed. I would also like to mention the existence of the current National Plan of Action to Reduce Pesticide Use, which aims to reduce risks and consequences as well as the use of pesticides. The plan also includes actions for individuals, including the dissemination of information for better use of pesticides, the existence of alternatives to pharmaceuticals and other elements. In addition, the Regions, within the framework of their competences relating to the use of pesticides, are also taking measures within their competence. I would like to draw attention to the need to validate the information on what is actually happening in terms of decisions in France or the Netherlands. The announcement of an intention, a resolution or a statement on a television set about other products is not yet legal in a country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u23	Minister, the IARC is known as a renowned institute at the WHO. So I think it's a strong statement not to believe it or to dawdle to believe it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u24	(...). I am only talking about the report of this working group, not about the structure in general.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u25	Okay. As regards the steps taken in the Netherlands and France, you say that things are not all settled yet and that it is only an intention. Well, it is indeed an intention and therefore more than what we are doing. Dara has already been announced and measures taken. The same applies to the retailers, which means something. It is therefore a pity that Belgium does not want or can play a leading role in this. Finally, there really are plenty of alternatives in the field of weed killers. So I do not understand why we should not use it and therefore apply the precautionary principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for the very comprehensive answer. Here it appears once again that the European Member States are not in line and are sending contradictory messages to the world. I believe that you are right if you wait until the final conclusions at European level arrive in the autumn. You will then certainly take the appropriate measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u27	Madam Chair, Minister, I thank you for your answer, although I find you somewhat timid with regard to the analyses made and the first documents that come to us. It is a precautionary principle that we should be able to move towards a principle of prohibition. In addition, in my question, I referred to the need for contact with the agricultural sector. Minister, I have not heard your answer to this. So I'm kind of waiting for this intervention from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u28	Mrs. Dedry, I have a few more figures for you. I'll get you these in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u29	Can you also send them to the secretariat of the commission so that they can be placed on the commission's website because they will not be included in the minutes of the oral questions? It can be understood that this is the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u30	Question No 3983 by Mr Senesael and question No 4267 by Mrs Gantois are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u31	Mr Minister, the ice-cream plant and the oxalis........................................................................................................................................................................................................ This would mainly have to do with the presence of ovalic acid in the plants. Herbal plants are allowed in other European Member States, such as the Netherlands and France, and are sold as herb without any problems. Oxalic acid is also present in rhubarb and spinach, which is eaten dwarfly in our country. It's rhubarb time. Many are currently making it jam, among other things. One may not eat too much, as my mother taught me, because that is not good for the kidneys. I suspect the ban has something to do with that. In any case, in other countries the plants are freely available for sale in trade and are used indefinitely. What's the problem now? The plants are on the list of prohibited products, yet there are companies that import them. Following an audit, a company was banned from selling. It was recommended that an exception to the general ban should be requested from the Public Health Office. There is indeed the possibility of obtaining an exception. The Minister can allow that. Apparently, this is referred to in the novel food legislation. It lists foods which were extensively used and purchased for 1997. However, this is difficult because there are no sales invoices before 1997, also because the plants were not imported in large quantities. However, the plants are used, including in cooking programmes. Theoretically, they're banned, so an import company can't use them anymore. Is it true that Belgium is the only Member State in which such a ban applies? According to some studies, the use does not appear to be so problematic. What scientific study is the prohibition based on? Do you believe that the ban should be maintained? Is there systematic monitoring of the sale and use of those herbs? If they are really dangerous, I think more action should be taken. In what way can a company obtain a derogation from the Royal Decree if one cannot prove through invoices that they were previously sold? Can we never ask for a deletion or make an exception to the list? Are you prepared, if necessary, to consult with the services of the Public Health Office in order to get out of the impasse?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u32	In fact, Mrs Becq, the sexes oxalis or clover acidification and mesembryanthemum or ice-plant are listed in Belgium on list 1 of the Royal Decree of 29 August 1997 on the manufacture and marketing of foodstuffs composed of plants or plant preparations or containing them. This means that all species of that genus are therefore banned in food in Belgium as long as no derogation from the ban is granted. Such a derogation can only be obtained after safety assessment by the Advisory Committee on Plant Preparations, which consists of experts in the field and whose secretariat is provided by the FPS People's Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment. As far as the status of plants in other Member States is concerned, it is important to know that legislation on the use of plants and plant preparations in food is not harmonised in Europe and that each country can therefore draw up its own lists. As regards the toxicity of the plants, the European Food Safety Authority in its compendium states that the species of the sexes oxalis and mesembryanthemum may also contain doses of oxalic acid that increase the risk of kidney stones. The genus to which the ice plant belongs may also contain alkaloids. On the other hand, the status of novel food for the plants in question must also be abolished in order to be able to market them. Independent of the ban on plants based on the above mentioned decision, ingredients are also covered by the Regulation on novel foods and novel food ingredients, the so-called novel food legislation. European legislation is above national law. The Regulation provides for a risk analysis and an authorisation procedure for foodstuffs which were not much consumed in the European Union before 15 May 1996. The information collected by my administration has not allowed to demonstrate such a significant use history by May 1997. The plants are therefore currently banned in food as long as they have not received specific approval under novel food legislation. The ban applies to the whole of the European Union. Approval can be obtained by submitting a dossier to a Member State. In order to clarify the situation, my administration has asked several times the Member States, more specifically France and the Netherlands, about the status of plants. My administration has also submitted the question to the European Commission's Novel Food Working Group. However, no Member State has been able to confirm the existence of a significant use history in the European Union for 1997. The food sector has passed on documents to my administration to demonstrate a history of significant use in the European Union before the date. After analysis, those documents were found not to be sufficient evidence. Furthermore, I would stress that the controls under the responsibility of the BFSA are carried out in accordance with the relevant legislation. They're based on a risk analysis. In this context, the control programme does not provide for systematic monitoring of the sale and use of the ice plant or clover acidification. The BFSA always checks the presence of prohibited plants when checking the labelling of food supplements, enriched foods, foods for infants or toddlers and foods with nutrition claims. I also have some figures for you on the checks, and I will give them to you and the secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u33	Minister, I was already aware of most of the information you have just provided. It remains difficult when it comes to a product that has never been used before or for which invoices have never been drawn up. Today, for example, flowers are being eaten, which is part of the new cuisine, but I cannot imagine that they were imported or ex- or imported in the 1990s. It is therefore not possible to prove this in the context of novel food legislation. I can't stop thinking that's a problem. Of course, health and certainly safety for children and pregnant women are paramount. I have only understood that the substance is also present in, among other things, rhubarb and spinach, with the difference that spinach is used as vegetables and the flowers in question mainly as herbs. Someone just happened to be the victim of a checkup. I also understand when you say that there is no systematic control and I certainly do not want to control it. But that sometimes means the death of a company that specializes in something and cannot find a solution because of the regulations. Could you look into that in more detail?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u34	I repeat that an oral question lasts five minutes in total, question, answer and reply! This is a sheet with possibly a paragraph on the second page, no more! I have been conciliatory and will still be so until the end of this meeting, but in the future I will cut off the floor! We have to go to the essentials!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u35	Madam President, I hope I won't be too long! Mr Minister, the European Commission has just authorised the import and marketing of seventeen GMOs for human or animal feed and two genetically modified flowers. Eleven of the nineteen GMOs are produced by the US multinational Monsanto, while the remaining eight come from the US firm Dupont and German groups Bayer and BASF. Officially, Member States have the right to refuse culture and use. Under the necessary precautionary principle, my group sees this worrying decision as a risk of imposing a widespread presence of GMOs in the diet on a large part of the population which is totally opposed to it. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. Will you use the opportunity for Member States to refuse the cultivation of these 19 GMOs on their territory? Will you prohibit the use of these GMOs in livestock feed? Will you plead for stronger controls on feed traceability? Finally, with regard to the TTIP negotiations, what position do you stand on the very controversial issue of GMOs? What about the negotiating mandate? Do you think that it contains sufficient guarantees from the agri-food sector for the protection of consumers - the composition and origin of products - but also from our producers in the face of multinationals like Monsanto? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u36	Madam Member, the European Commission recently adopted 19 decisions on the placing of GMOs on the market. They concern 17 GMOs for human or animal consumption and two genetically modified carnations for sale in the form of cut flowers. It is therefore not a GMO intended for cultivation. In procedural terms, all these decisions were put to the vote of the Member States between the end of 2013 and March, but without obtaining a favourable or unfavourable qualified majority. In these cases, the rules provide that the decision must be taken by the European Commission. These authorisations are in addition to the 50 or so GMOs that can already be imported into the European Union and used in food or feed. Such decisions are usually adopted by the Commission following the vote of the Member States. Here, these choices have been adopted in a consolidated manner following the blocking by the Commission since the end of 2013 in view of the upcoming installation of the Juncker Commission. In practice, these decisions relate to soybeans, maize, rapeseed and cotton and aim at cultivation in the United States, in the countries of South America, and export to the European Union, in particular for their use in animal feed. It should be borne in mind that in Europe and Belgium, we are currently heavily dependent on these imports for animal feed. Very few GMOs are used in products intended for human consumption. In all cases of GMOs having received a favourable risk assessment by the EFSA – the European Food Safety Authority – which I obviously do not question, nor the other institutions mentioned since the beginning of this committee. In addition, EFSA considered that these GMOs are safe for human, animal or environmental health. As regards a European authorisation for marketing and not for cultivation, I do not have the opportunity to oppose the use of GMOs in livestock feed in Belgium under the current legislation. The European Commission has adopted a draft regulation to re-nationalise authorisations for GMOs for use in food. This proposal has yet to be discussed between the Council and the Parliament of the European Union. It is therefore still far from being adopted. If it were later to be found that one of these GMOs is likely to pose the slightest risk to human or animal health, I would certainly use the emergency measures at my disposal to suspend the placing on the market of this GMO in Belgium, as permitted by European legislation. I think it would be useful to develop further ways to ensure a supply of protein for animal feed in the European Union. I am thinking in particular of the cultivation of protein crops such as peas and others. I am pleased to note that support measures are thus provided for under the common agricultural policy to develop the European Union's protein autonomy. As far as controls are concerned, the rules in force provide for obligations to trace and label the presence of GMOs. Controls carried out by the AFSCA in 2013 show a compliance rate of 96.4% of the 366 samples taken. Finally, the issue of GMOs is excluded from the TTIP negotiations. The European Union has a system of its own to decide whether or not to allow the import of a GMO into the European Union. This system is not open to trade negotiations. In view of the time allocated to me, I propose that we be able to discuss another question on the other agricultural elements of the TTIP. This would require an hour of debate if there was to be an in-depth exchange of views on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not opposed to holding a debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u38	Mr Minister, I thank you for your answer, which does not reassure me very much, as was the answer given to me a few weeks ago by your colleague Kris Peeters, who was supposed to be in charge of consumer protection and who did not seem to be very worried about this decision. I am somewhat questioned because I feel that the precautionary principle that should prevail in decisions is not properly taken into account. You seem to say that it is not possible for you to intervene on this issue, contrary to what I think. In fact, you have invoked the emergency measure that can be activated. In doing so, as I told you, I am not at all reassured. I am even quite dissatisfied with the way the government handles this issue. We will probably have an opportunity to discuss it again beyond the TTIP debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that next Wednesday the committee will be able to make an assessment on the principle of proportionality and subsidiarity on GMOs in animal feed, at the request of the European Commission. Those who wish to do so will therefore be able to express their views on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u40	Madam President, Minister, on 11 March we asked you about the integration of OCMW and local government. You said at that time that you had received a study which showed that there is an undeniable need for a legislative amendment, in particular of Article 2. You also said that you would ask for additional advice in order to have all the necessary elements in order to arrive at a correct decision. Through informal channels, the VVSG and so on, we have learned that the PPS Social Integration would have given you an opinion in the meantime. I am very curious to know whether this opinion has indeed arrived at you, whether you yourself asked for it, and above all what it says? If there is indeed this opinion, I would like you to make it available to Parliament, as well as possibly the study you referred to on 11 March, so that we can look at those documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u41	Madam President, Minister, I will be very brief. There is little point in repeating what my colleague has just said. I would also like to know the current state of play in this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u42	Madam President, Minister, I have asked several questions on this subject, last time together with Mr Vercamer, on 11 March, and before that in the plenary session of 22 January, together with Mr De Coninck. On the question of the state of affairs, you announced that you were expecting a legal opinion in the next few weeks on whether or not the special law on institutional reform of 8 August 1980 should be amended, and whether or not that should be done with a two-thirds majority, in order to allow the integration of OCMW and city or municipality. You have always replied that you want to allow the Regions the freedom to do what they want to do, and that you want to provide for the necessary legislative changes. However, we are gradually getting the impression that it has been dragging on for some time now that this is a lot more complex than it initially seemed. That is why I have made my questions quite detailed this time. I therefore hope that you will be able to give a detailed answer. Firstly, can you give a detailed overview of the legal provisions that need to be adapted in order to integrate OMCWs, whether voluntarily or not, into local government? I understand in the corridors that a lot of legal provisions need to be adapted. Do you have any advice in this regard? I believe there was some advice? Maybe there's more? I would also ask you to make those opinions available to Parliament. After your previous reply, I had already stressed that, if there were no clarity before the summer, this would put the timing of, for example, the Flemish Government in difficulty. So, can you give a detailed overview of the legal provisions? Do you have any opinions and can you give them to Parliament? What, according to the government, is the safest legal way to enable the integration of OCMWFs? If there are different legal advice on what needs to be adapted and whether or not a two-thirds majority is needed, what is the safest option in your opinion to move forward, so that the OMCWs do not face insurmountable existential difficulties? What are the next steps you plan in the file, together with the Regions? What's the timing? There has probably already been consultation with the regional governments on the dossier. What are the views of the Regions? Are they all sticking to their point of view? The position of the Flemish Government is quite clear, but is the position of the Walloon Region still clear? After all, the coalition agreement provided for voluntary integration, but in the corridors I hear that the parties that are part of it would have changed their minds in the meantime. Is that right? Do the regions understand the legal difficulties they face and what is their attitude in this respect? Finally, this is not an insignificant question for the Flemish OCMW's, do you think that the 2019 timing, which is stated in the draft note of the Flemish government, is realistic, given your answer to the previous questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u43	On 2 March, you replied that you did not yet have the opinion of your administration, and that this was a fundamental legislative amendment aimed at removing the barriers that allow the integration of CPAS into the municipalities. You said that an amendment to Article 2 of the Organic Law was necessary anyway and that, with regard to possible amendments to the Special Law of 8 August 1980, you had different provisional analyses which were divergent and which you had to examine. According to you, your goal was to reach a solution in 2015, so that the Regions could also consider what they wanted to do. Is your administration now in possession of sufficiently validated studies? Can you share this information? Are you able to choose one or the other option? If so, could you tell us which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already explained in reply to previous questions on this delicate subject, I understand, of course, that the cities, the municipalities, the OCMWFs and you want to clarify this sensitive dossier quickly. However, this is a complex dossier which requires a detailed preparation, a thorough legal analysis and, where appropriate, a certain political arbitration. The aim of the proposed legislative change from a federal perspective is to adapt the legislation to allow the integration of OMCWs into the cities or municipalities. As you know, I have ordered various studies and advice on this subject. From the various studies that I have at my disposal, it appears mainly that it is not possible to simply transfer the competence to allow municipalities and CPAS to merge to federated entities. On the other hand, it is still possible for the federal government to authorize or impose the merger through federal law. According to the majority of information at my disposal, it appears that an ordinary law would be sufficient to allow the merger in most of the cities and communes of the country. However, a special law would be needed for a certain number of facilities in our country. However, the analyses differ as regards the perimeter of the facilities municipalities for which a special law would be necessary, in particular as regards the number of municipalities concerned. On the basis of the studies I have at my disposal, and following the mandate entrusted to me by the nuclear cabinet, I will make a proposal in two weeks' time to the nuclear cabinet and to the government to arrive at a methodology of decision on this dossier. Of course, as a follow-up and in full transparency, I will pass on this proposal for a methodology, first for information, to Parliament and the various studies that I have at my disposal. Finally, in this case, where we are very close to the exercise of the powers of the federated entities, I will ensure that there is a deal with the various federated entities, even if their vision on this matter is different and even if it seems that the vision of one of the federated entities, the Walloon Region in this case, has evolved since the beginning of the legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u45	Mr Minister, I thank you for your answers, from which I clearly understand that the compulsory fusion of OCMWs and cities can only be regulated at federal level by ordinary law. A special law is needed only for the facilities municipalities. That's how I understood your answer. The regions cannot therefore impose this merger. You say that only the federal level can impose this, imposing. You say that various analyses show that you will make a proposal on the methodology to be followed. Does this mean that you adhere to the government agreement and will ensure that municipalities and OCMW are able to merge, or are required to merge? This is a fundamental difference. You say that the federal level can impose this by law, except for the facilities municipalities where it has to be regulated by a special law. The question is whether it is your intention, in the proposal that you will formulate to the government, to impose a federal law that all OCMWs and all municipal authorities can or must merge. In your reply, you mentioned "can't'. Madam President, the Minister has certain studies. I propose that he make it available to those Members who ask for it today. That way we can look at these studies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u46	Madam President, I agree with this last question because what the Minister is saying can be problematic according to his intentions. Flanders has a very clear desire to impose this by 2019. However, if Flanders is not competent to do so, the question is what exactly will the Minister do at federal level. Is it your intention, Minister, to make a kind of two-track policy possible through your plan when it comes to the facilities municipalities? If the problem persists in the facilities municipalities, will you make this merger possible for the other municipalities by means of an ordinary law or will you try to approach the file as a whole? I am also waiting for the advice to continue with this, but this is a dossier that I think needs an answer very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u47	Minister, you have given us a number of clarifications which give us a little more information, but which at the same time raise a lot of new questions. As Mr Vercamer said, you are clearly talking about a majority of studies, la majorité des études. Apparently there is some doubt and there are studies of which some say "A" and other "B." In any event, a majority of the studies show that the federal level cannot transfer that decision to the Regions. The question then is what the government will do with that. I understand you'll make a proposal to the nuclear cabinet in two weeks' time. Can we then differentiate across the country? If you say that this cannot be delegated to the Regions, does this mean that you will have to make a decision for the whole country, while the Regions do not agree or have different views among themselves? I have also noted from your reply that the special law of 1980 should be amended for the facilities municipalities. A contrario leads me to conclude that this is not the case for the other cities and municipalities. That is part of the answer that has been asked for some time. No two-thirds majority would then be required to implement this for the majority of cities and municipalities, except for the facilities municipalities. That's how I read it. We can only assess this properly if we have the studies, of which there are several. Parliament will need a copy of it, under our right of inspection, in order to be able to assess the dossier and assess the risks. On this basis, we, as Members of Parliament, can, in our honour and conscience, judge what our position will be and how to proceed. OMCWs are ultimately important institutions, administrative and social assistance. We prefer to be clear as soon as possible about the direction in which things are evolving in our country. I trust that the opinions will be made available to Parliament as soon as possible, preferably now, because I do not see why we have to wait two weeks for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u48	Minister, unlike my colleagues, I do not find this to be the most important topic in terms of the missions assigned to CPAS. On the other hand, we have seen that costing and people management is a fundamental issue, which has been waiting for answers for a long time. However, with regard to the merger of municipalities and CPAS, you will discuss it in Kern, and then you will bring the studies to Parliament. It would be a good idea for Members to have them in advance. In this way, when you present your methodology, we will have been able to consult these studies. The goal is that you don't just come and tell us can't, but that we have an argumented exchange. For municipalities with facilities, is it possible that a different decision can be taken? I understand you're not going to tell us more about this right now, since we'll have to wait for Kern.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u49	Mrs Gerkens, my answer will consist of three points. First of all, since this is a very delicate subject, I wished to weigh each of the words of my answer. Secondly, of course, I am committed to working transparently with Parliament. Finally, as I have already indicated, my objective is to fully implement the federal government's policy statement and to enable the implementation of regional governments' policy statements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u50	As far as studies are concerned, are you going to give them to us now or are we going to have to wait?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u51	I suggest you pass them on to you as soon as possible. I am committed to working transparently with you. I need, of course, a little bit of time. We are not yet in the process of analysing the texts. Nor is this the stage of law review. As you know, since I took office, I've been listening.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u52	There is no political position in legal studies. It's kind of like the opinions of the Council of State. I would like us to be able to read these notes before you present your methodology so that we have some elements to introduce into our thinking. The secretariat of the Commission will contact you to arrange for this transmission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u53	Minister, I would like to ask you in your capacity as Minister responsible for the AFSCA and Minister for Agriculture and Aquaculture. Our country is raising and producing trout, especially excellent Ardenne trout, which may soon be labeled, but this is another debate. As far as we are concerned at the federal level, there is an interesting subject, a small section of just 2 km on the river Amblève, between the village of Ligneuville and the village of Pont on the territory of the city of Malmedy, is not controlled by the AFSCA and is listed in level III, unknown i.e. without control. If this is a historical situation, however, the consequences today are unfortunate, directly for some producers, and potentially for the entire Meuse watershed, which is not the smallest basin in our country. Indeed, some producers suffer from a high and irregular mortality rate, which in particular does not allow them to consider long-term investments. It is essential that action be taken quickly, as this depends on an entire sector that will or will not make investments that create jobs and added value for our country. To make investments, it often takes a financial partner and the financial partner, whatever it may be, usually hates one thing, uncertainty. Because of your response and your actual action or not, several jobs are at stake. Mr. Minister, do you intend to pass this section by just two kilometres, or even the whole of the territory, from status III, undetermined in status II, under surveillance program? Do you intend to deposit, adopt and enforce a plan for the control and eradication of fish diseases on our rivers and rivers by correcting this historic slag? How long do you intend to put these provisions in place? Could you give us a timetable for the provisional implementation of your intentions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u54	Mr de Lamotte, in Belgium, only one trout farm has a status free of viral haemorrhagic septicaemia and infectious haematopoietic necrosis, diseases that occupy us here. All other trout farms have an indeterminate European status III. Only one of them is entitled to free status I, while the others are entitled to undetermined European status III. However, this status III is not synonymous with lack of control, since since 1999 trout farms in Wallonia have been subject twice a year to monitoring to detect these two diseases. Measures are also in place to ensure that only animals from uninfected farms are introduced into farms and fisheries and rivers in Wallonia. The portion of the Amblee, to which you refer, has no official health status, as no analysis has been done on the wild fish present there. Because this portion of the river is controlled by two farms that are considered infected, the disease may have been established in wild fish. However, this situation does not appear to represent a risk for the other farms, as shown by the negative results of monitoring carried out for many years at the other production sites on the Amblève and its tributaries. The AFSCA, with which I am in close contact in this case, is currently evaluating the possibility of setting up a specific eradication programme, approved by the European Commission, in order to eventually obtain an official status "indemnified" for these two diseases. However, the European requirements for such a programme are numerous and are not always in line with the reality of the aquaculture sector and the hydrographic network in Belgium. The development of this eradication programme would be accompanied by sometimes heavy obligations to be met by producers and would represent a financial cost that must be assessed and accepted by each party. It is only subject to the agreement of the various operators concerned that a concrete action plan can be put in place and a timetable can possibly be defined. My administration and I are following this file very closely. I would ask you for a little more patience to see if the efforts made and the contacts made can lead to this action plan, and in what time frame.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u55	Minister, thank you for your answer. I will, of course, await the additional information you have announced.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u56	Question No 4324 by Mr Servais Verherstraeten is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u57	Minister, there is a huge increase in take-away restaurants, especially for pizza and pita. This type of catering business is mainly located in the starting quarters and student districts of cities. They are also very popular with the youth. They also occur mainly in neighbourhoods where vacancy problems exist. Just through regular and thorough checks on these companies, the strong entrepreneur, who has an eye for quality, will achieve it in that sector. My questions to you are the following. Firstly, are there any figures for the period between 2010 and 2014 of hygiene and food safety checks carried out by your services at take-away restaurants, whether or not in collaboration with the local police zones, the RVA and the social inspection? What were the violations? If possible, I would like to have a breakdown of the results by province and city centre. Secondly, such take-out restaurants are, of course, subject to regulations, including on training, hygiene rules and food safety. I understand from the sector that this regulation is relatively limited. Do you consider the regulation sufficient or do you consider it rather a formality? Thirdly, are you considering extending and improving the regulation of the Royal Decree of 1984? Are you prepared to hold a wider debate within the government and possibly in consultation with the Länder in order to link the operation of a take-out hearing with a valid basic vocational training which demonstrates the professional knowledge and competence of the operator?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u58	Mrs Van Hoof, on the basis of the data available in the databases of the BFSA, it is unfortunately not possible to distinguish between take-away restaurants and other restaurants. After all, the results of the take-away restaurants are included in the overall results of the catering industry. In general I can inform you that 53 600 hygiene inspections were carried out in eateries between 2010 and 2014. 52% of the inspections carried out by the operators concerned were assessed as favourable. I can give you the details of the results per province and the main serious infringements for eateries. I'll hand them over to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u59	The main serious infringements observed at the eateries in the period 2010- 2014 concerned the cleanliness of the areas in contact with food, the respect of the cold chain, the presence of spoiled foods, the thawing of food under appropriate conditions, the respect of good personal hygiene and the wearing of appropriate and clean clothing. Horeca operators and therefore also take-away restaurants should be known at the BFSA and have the right permissions for the exercise of their activities. As I said to you earlier, European legislation stipulates that all those dealing with food must be trained on hygiene, adapted to the tasks to be performed. During a hygiene inspection, the auditors of the BFSA check whether the staff has sufficient knowledge of the hygiene rules. Professional competence is one of the powers transferred to the regions. However, I am indeed asking for cooperation with the Regions and the Communities to show operators, producers, farmers and catering operators the right way and to facilitate their professional knowledge. I can still tell you that since 2008, the BFSA has had an information cell that helps operators in the hospitality industry, among other things, to be in order with the regulations. To this end, that cell regularly organises training sessions for groups of operators in cooperation with the professional federations. The operators are, of course, free to take part in these training courses. Training was also launched in 2010 for those responsible and pupils at hotel, butchery and bakery schools in cooperation with the Regions and the Communities. In 2013, 287 training sessions were organised, with a total of more than 10 000 participants. As I recently announced, a specific monitoring cell will soon be set up for operators, in particular for smaller processors, according to a method and timing currently being analysed by my services. Madam President, I will also give you the figures for each province.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. It is a pity that there is no division to type of restaurant. The landscape in the sector is changing and takeaways are becoming more and more visible in the sector. Hence the plea that the Royal Decree of 1984 allowing exceptions with the Communities and the Regions for those takeaways should be reviewed. Despite the fact that there are a lot of training sessions, it is not known which type of operator participates in them and whether these take-away restaurants deal with them, as they are subject to more limited regulation than a regular restaurant. I welcome the fact that you are asking for a meeting with the Communities and the Regions, in the hope of obtaining an adjustment for the type of take-away restaurants.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u61	Minister, you will see them all over the street this summer: the so-called food trucks. These are sympathetic vans, which were originally converted and from which catering is performed. They're a real hype. Sometimes one even has to look for the festival among all food trucks, as they have become so popular. All music festivals are filled with it eagerly. The principle of food trucks from which outpatient trade is carried is undoubtedly very sympathetic and appealing to many people, but it is of course important that these converted vehicles are also fully in order to regulate food safety and hygiene. I can imagine that, within these limited spaces, the preservation and cooling of products is not always evident. In the area of hygiene, too, everything must be done correctly and in accordance with the rules. Are there any figures from the period 2012 to 2014 on the checks carried out on your services at markets, festivals and events, as regards the infrastructure, establishment, hygiene and food safety of outpatient restaurants? How many infringements were detected? Are you prepared to increase the number of checks on those food trucks and check compliance with the regulations? What are the conditions that a person has to meet in order to operate a food truck? Is an auditor's card sufficient or does it include basic hygiene requirements? If so, do you think that training is sufficient or is it merely a formality? Is it not necessary to discuss this with the Regions and the Communities? The food trucks offer food from all over the world. It's not about the so-called fries anymore. Everything's on offer. Is it not necessary to provide a valid vocational training course in the catering industry?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u62	Minister, I will not repeat myself. My colleague has already addressed the sympathetic story of the food trucks. In Antwerp, a real food truck festival took place recently. So the food trucks are becoming a real hype. Since the festival season in Flanders will officially start next week, I would like to ask you a number of questions about this. How many controls have been carried out on such food trucks in the period 2010-2015? How many pvvs were drawn up at that time as a result of infringements of the hygiene and infrastructure rules? I suspect there will be checks this summer. Sometimes they are announced, as in other restaurants. At which festivals will the BFSA carry out checks? Were they announced or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u63	Colleagues, the BFSA does not have separate statistics of the controls carried out on food trucks, at festivals or at other events. These results are included in the overall results of the outpatient trade. 1 500 outpatient operators are checked every year. This includes controls on weekly markets, evening markets, Christmas markets, festivals, events and so on. From 2010 to 2014, 4 782 hygiene inspections were carried out in the hospitality centre. In 2015, there are, to date, 210. In the period 2010 to 2015, 212 minutes were made following adverse checks on the hygiene infrastructure and facilities in the hospitality sector: 25 in 2010, 16 in 2011, 61 in 2012, 41 in 2013, 63 in 2014, and 6 in 2015. No control actions at festivals are planned for 2015. The festivals, as has been the case in recent years, will be monitored as part of the control plan for the outpatient trade, unless the checks in the outpatient trade are part of the specific control actions in cities and municipalities. These last events are unannounced. In view of the relatively good results of the inspections carried out with the hospitality operators, the number of inspections in this sector will not be increased for the time being. Ambulant traders, like all other operators in the food chain, should be known at the BFSA and have the right permission or registration for the exercise of their activities. European legislation lays down that all persons handling, training and/or training foodstuffs must be trained and/or trained in the field of hygiene in accordance with the tasks to be performed. During the hygiene inspection, the auditors of the BFSA check whether the staff has sufficient knowledge of the hygiene rules. The authorisation of outpatient trade is one of the powers delegated to the Communities, the Regions or the Community Commission. Professional competence is one of the powers delegated to the Regions. I can also tell you that since 2008, the BFSA has had an information cell that helps operators in the western hospitality industry, among other things, to put the regulations in order. The cell organises training sessions for groups of operators, in collaboration with the professional federation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u64	Minister, it is a pity again that there is no division between festivals and markets. As far as the markets are concerned, it is well known that market stallers know enough about the rules, since the markets have long existed and traders are aware of them through the city or the market unions. They therefore comply well with the rules. I understand, therefore, that you will not push up the inspections. The phenomenon of the food truck festivals is a new hype. In this respect, I think it is necessary to make everyone aware of the rules on hygiene. There is still a need for sensitisation, for example by means of unannounced and sufficient controls.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I would like to join Mrs Van Hoof. In my opinion, the fact that these out-of-town traders are all covered by a dome is not enough. It is a new phenomenon and I believe that there is a need for extra attention to food safety at festivals, especially when taking into account the high temperatures in the summer, a lot of food flow and the large number of people who are often on such a food truck. So it is a little more difficult than in a market. Moreover, the market stallers are often well informed by the cities and municipalities. I think those food trucks should be informed by the organizers of the festivals. Perhaps there is a possibility for the BFSA to contact the organizers of these festivals to see how this can be better organised. Finally, training is very important here too. Hygiene is becoming increasingly important, also with regard to allergens and similar conditions. Certainly the new phenomenon of food trucks needs to be adjusted or helped to deal with this correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u66	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 4610 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u67	Minister, like other federal agencies, the BFSA is also subject to audit obligations. In 2014, both laboratories and central services and control units were frequently audited. For example, 18 out of 20 planned audits were carried out at the BFSA. Those audited processes are described in procedures, including the procedure for detecting any internal fraud. The last audit, that of 2014, was generally very positive, but it turned out that there is no internal fraud plan at the BFSA. This is a point of interest which must be addressed in the coming years. Such an internal fraud plan must clearly specify the tasks and responsibilities in the case of internal fraud, so that we know how to deal with them. How is internal fraud defined in the current procedures of the BFSA? Following the audit in 2014, will the BFSA effectively develop a fraud plan, as requested? What will the chalk lines of the plan be? What is the timing for the implementation of the fraud plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u68	Ms Hufkens, the definition used by the BFSA for internal fraud is the official definition of the Institute of Internal Auditors: any unlawful act characterised by deception, diversion or breach of trust without violence or threat of violence, the fraud being committed by one or more persons in order to obtain money, goods or services or to obtain a personal or commercial advantage. I would like to remind you of my answer to the written question No. 58 that the audit processes related to crisis management, inspection plans, laboratory activities, accreditations and authorisations as well as the risks related to internal fraud and threats are largely described and, more importantly, applied effectively. The necessary attention should be paid to the revision and making certain procedures more readable. The internal audit found that many actions have already been taken to combat possible fraud and that the necessary ethics is addressed in the general policy of the BFSA. I refer, for example, to the Charter of the Controller, to the code of ethics or to the strict policy of incompatibility. The risks related to the integrity of the organisation are also taken into account in the risk management of the BFSA. In addition, in the context of the audit, a working group on internal fraud was tasked with listing the existing mechanisms at the BFSA to identify possible gaps and to develop, with a view to better streamlining, a fully written internal fraud policy for all services at the BFSA, with clearly defined tasks and responsibilities. According to the timing, the Working Group will make a proposal in the second half of 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u69	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I know a lot of things happen to prevent internal fraud. The annual report indeed stated that better streamlining is needed. I am pleased that a working group is preparing a plan to streamline everything. As long as there's no problem with fraud, it's okay, but it's gonna have to happen. Especially when we know that the fight against fraud is a very important issue in the coalition agreement, I think that we should first check with our own services whether all the principles are well on the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u70	Question No 4719 by Mrs Dierick is in question in writing, as is Question No 4736 by Mrs Muylle. Mrs Cassart-Milleux asked for the postponement of her question No 4867. Question No 5018 by Mr de Lamotte is also postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u71	Mr. Minister, through the BFSA I was aware of the existence of a circular letter about racing pigeons. I received it yesterday and my question is therefore somewhat out of date. However, I will put them because there may be new elements. Travel pigeons, however crazy that may sound to some, are considered as consumer animals and are therefore eaten effectively. Many pigeons that are no longer suitable for competition, end up in this way in the food chain. Often it is the pigeon milkers themselves, who consume the animals. In the past, cocaine has already been discovered among Belgian prize pigeons. The use of medicines, doping and/or drugs in price pigeons can indirectly have a harmful effect on human health if treated pigeons enter the food chain. Minister, what is the legal framework that provides for price or sport pigeons to be suitable for human consumption? What is your view on the use of sport pigeons for human consumption? Are you for the human consumption of these pigeons or should this be excluded from the food chain? Do you recognise that the use of medicines and doping in pigeons after consumption could endanger people's health? Are there controls on price and sport pigeons with regard to treatment with medicines, doping and/or drugs before entering the food chain? If so, who does these checks? Is sanctioning measures also provided for?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u72	If sport and travel pigeons are offered in the food chain, they are covered by the definition of poultry, as provided for in the European Directive 2009/158 and the Royal Decree of June 2013. If these pigeons are only held for pigeon sport, without ever bringing them into the food chain, they are not considered poultry but birds. If pigeons are brought into the food chain, they must comply with the legal standards, including the use of veterinary medicinal products, like the other poultry and like all other food producing animals. In veterinary treatment of sport pigeons, a number of medicinal products are not authorised for use in animals destined for the food chain. For the sake of clarity, this is not about illegal medicines, but about registered medicines appearing on a European list for use in animals not intended for the food chain. After the use of such medicines in sport pigeons, these pigeons are no longer suitable for the food chain and therefore excluded for human consumption. It is not the intention to exclude all sport pigeons from the food chain, but the pigeons that have to be excluded according to the regulations. It is indeed the free choice and responsibility of every pigeon fancier to decide on the status of his pigeon house. If the pigeon fancier wants to deliver pigeons to the food chain, he will have to adhere strictly to the pharmaceutical legislation for the entire pigeon loft. He must inform his veterinarian and register with the BFSA as a poultry farmer. The BFSA has very recently published a circular on this subject, to remind the sector of the applicable rules. This circular letter was drawn up in consultation with the Royal Belgian Pigeon fancier's association and with the veterinarians. The BFSA control programme provides for an annual sampling of a number of pigeons in slaughterhouses for the control of residues of medicinal products. Non-compliant products are seized and must be destroyed. The destruction is followed by an investigation on the holding of origin.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u73	Minister, you spoke about the letter I read this week. So things were running in parallel. It is very important that the pigeon fanciers are aware of the letter. So I'm glad he made it. Of course, sampling is very important. If there are effective problems in poultry, it is important that they are withdrawn from the market as soon as possible and that the keepers of those poultry are punished. This has an impact on public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u74	Madame Hufkens, your vous remerce. You have in front of you a person who was fed to the pigeons travellers who, because they missed the championships, passed by the pan with the peas. We loved those pigeons very much!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u75	Minister, the BFSA is currently working on a computerized system B2B that would be ready by the end of this month. That should mean a lot of progress. So far it has been a very complicated procedure and there have been complaints from people who said that the BFSA refused access to a number of inspection reports based on the right to privacy. Minister, I have a few questions about this. Will the system be ready in time? In particular, what information will there be available to consult? Will it work with inspection reports or just with smileys or something? Can it be compared to the Danish or the English system? Have IT efforts been made so that staff are also supported? Finally, transparency is a very old one when it comes to food safety. About eight years ago, there was an analysis working group on this issue and on public administration. Recommendations were made at the time. Has anything been done about this report and its recommendations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u76	Ma'am, at the end of June 2015, the BFSA will launch the online publication of the inspection results of the distribution sector in Foodweb in the form of a simple scoring system. It is therefore the B2C sector, the direct sales to consumers, and not the B2B sector, which refers to activities between operators. These include: catering, large kitchens, retail shops, butcher shops, bakeries, fish shops, sales, school kitchens, daycare centers, hospital kitchens, etc. Since 1 June 2015, a test phase has been in progress in which the operators concerned can already consult their own inspection results in the private part of Foodweb. The rating system with classes was developed on the basis of the validation of the auto-control system, the result of the last hygiene inspection carried out, the severity of the observed infringements and the follow-up given by the operator. Seven classes are provided: excellent; very good; good; sufficient, as a temporary classification pending re-check; to improve, as a temporary classification pending re-check; to improve and no recent inspection. The meaning of these classes and any other information concerning the publication of inspection results can be found on the website of the BFSA, under the heading "Publishing inspection results'. The results will be published using a symbol, accompanied by a brief description of its meaning. The full inspection reports will not be published, but can of course still be obtained on the main management of the BFSA, after prior agreement. Since these are technical documents specifically developed to be able to handle an inspection efficiently, they are difficult to interpret for laymen. The system is similar to the Danish, English and some other systems available in Europe, in the sense that they also work with a classification that is visualized using a simple score or symbol. It is the closest to the UK system. Since there are no European rules so far on how to classify, Member States enjoy full freedom in this and therefore there may be differences between systems. The publication of the results is supported by a fully automated system. The development took about 18 man months, of which 8 man months for analysis and IT tests, 7 man months for development and 3 man months for project management. Support and integration into the existing infrastructure took about 1 man month. The validation and the live tests, including performance tests, together took about 2 man months. This had to be achieved within the existing IT budget. Moreover, this budget had already been reduced as a result of the government's savings measures. The BFSA has therefore had to postpone a number of other internal IT developments. In addition, the employees of the BFSA call centre were specifically trained to respond to questions from both operators and consumers and the employees were informed on the ground. At present no provision is made for the release of additional resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u77	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. I understand that from now on we can also visit the website.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u78	This does not apply to everyone during the test period.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u79	And how long will this test period last?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u80	A month. After that, everything will be open to everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u81	Minister, it's June 2015, so halfway through the current year. Usually in June, the BFSA publishes the annual report of the previous year. We're almost at the end of the month now. Minister, when will that annual report be released and can we look into it? Can you give us a hint of the veil and what the major changes will be in relation to the 2013 annual report? I am referring in particular to the budget and staffing capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u82	Ms. Hufkens, the 2014 annual report of the BFSA will be published on 30 June 2015, following the accompanying press conference. Total expenditure for 2014 increased by 4% compared to 2013 expenditure. In 2014 there were 1 310 employees at the BFSA, ten employees less compared to 2013. Expressed in full-time equivalents there were 1 166 full-time employees in 2014 and that is 22 fewer than in 2013.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u83	Thank you, Minister. In doing so, you are already giving some very concrete figures. The increase in expenditure by 4% is not much. I don't know where that rise is. The number of employees is falling, while I just thought there was a need for more staff, especially because of the current allergen legislation, which requires more training. I suspect that this has to do with budgetary constraints. I therefore wonder whether this reduction in the number of staff is sufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u84	The answer may be in the report, published on 30 June.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u85	Mr Minister, at the beginning of June we saw the images of a slaughterhouse in Zele, where a pig who could hardly stand was beaten with a forklift truck. The images were filmed by a passing citizen. They raise the question whether this is the only malpractice that took place in this slaughterhouse and in other slaughterhouses. The Flemish Minister of Animal Welfare, Ben Weyts, also saw the footage and immediately called the BFSA and the Federation of Slaughterhouses. Minister, I suppose you too have been informed of these abuses. Have you taken any action? Which one? Has an investigation started? Have there been any calls with the company in question? What sanctions does the company risk? When will we know more about this? Has the company in question received any checks in the past? When was the last check? Did certain things come to light at the time? Assuming that after this event there will be a check, when will the next one take place? What steps will you take to avoid abuses like these in the future? How does the collaboration with the Flemish Animal Welfare Inspectorate proceed? Finally, how often are slaughterhouses monitored on average?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u86	Mrs Van Camp, I would like to remind you that the competence for Animal Welfare has been regionalised since July 2014. It is therefore no longer the BFSA which is responsible for animal welfare controls, but the control services of the Flemish Community. Of course, I do not intend to interfere with the powers of my colleague from the Flemish Government. As regards cooperation between the regional authorities and the BFSA, I can inform you that a cooperation protocol was drawn up with the regional administrations, which regulates cooperation between the BFSA and the Regions. The BFSA will continue to make observations, but it is always the regional services that need to take action and act. This protocol I signed is currently waiting for my colleague, Minister Ben Weyts, to sign it. It will then have to be signed by the other competent regional ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u87	So, Minister, the protocol is not yet complete and is still the subject of discussion. It still needs to be formalized.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u88	It just needs to be signed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u89	So the BFSA remains under federal jurisdiction, if I understand correctly. There will be co-operation with the Regions, but I understand that you remain responsible for following and having the audit assignments carried out by the BFSA?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u90	The competence of my services includes the technical inspection by the BFSA. The measures and the political orientation are now a competence of the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u91	So I would like to ask whether any instructions have already been given to carry out the technical inspection for the slaughterhouse. When was the last checkup? I assume those records are still with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u92	You may reread the Minister's answer or rest a question if you do not have sufficient information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u93	Question No 4306 by Mrs Vanheste is deleted since she did not come and did not apologize.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u94	Minister, in my question, I refer, as in the previous question, to the answers you gave me on 2 March last on the legislative measures you intend to adopt to combat social fraud and to get CPAS workers to pass on confidential information about beneficiaries to other bodies and to remove the obstacle of respect for professional secrecy. In your reply, you acknowledged that these desired enlargements in the transfer of information should be carefully studied and fixed, so as to prevent them from being counterproductive or from encountering fundamental principles of social action or other fundamental principles such as respect for privacy. You also pointed out that the previous government had proposed to amend article 46quater of the Code of Criminal Investigation in order to allow CPAS members to cooperate with the King's prosecutor without, however, violating article 458 of the Criminal Code. Article 458 of the Criminal Code already allows the King's Prosecutor to request information relating to various information, including bank accounts, in cases of fraud. You suggested applying the same procedure so that this article also applies to the transfer of information by CPAS workers. You acknowledged that this possible extension is a sensitive matter that should be handled with the utmost care and you told us that an analysis was requested from the Justice FPS. Minister, have you received this analysis from the FPS Justice? What are the conclusions? What follow-up did you give?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u95	Madam President, I am very sorry to disappoint you in this case. You have described very well the context of this dossier, the various elements of analysis and the references to the articles concerned. You have also rightly pointed out that this sensitive matter needs to be dealt with with with the necessary attention, which is why the analyses were requested from the Justice FPS. But at this stage, I do not yet have the results of these analyses. Given the scale of the files we have to deal with, we will still be waiting for some time for this detailed analysis. Believe it, I know your interest in this matter. As soon as I have it at my disposal, I will certainly share it with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u96	It is indeed a very complex matter. I believe that it is a mistake to seek solutions at all costs to force social workers to transmit information. This would run counter to the relationship of aid and trust that they must develop with beneficiaries or future beneficiaries of integration income or assistance or social action interventions. We are going to wait for this opinion from the SPF Justice, but I hope that in the meantime no pressure will be put on social workers to give information on the pretext that they admit too many files or that they are not severe enough. I'll ask you again after the holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-commissie-ic196x.u97	Minister, thank you. I encourage you to reduce the size of the responses for future commissions. I know how to act vis-à-vis colleagues but not vis-à-vis you. The meeting is adjourned.
