ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u2	By letter dated 13 October 2015, the Senate informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of October 13, 2015, the Senate announced that it had constituted itself at its sitting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u3	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 612: Karin Jiroflée - 633: Philippe Goffin, Denis Ducrame, Gilles Foret, Richard Miller, Carina Van Cauter, Patrick Dewael, Olivier Chastel - 694: Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Carina Van Cauter - 840: Conseil Degroote, Sophie De Wit, Sarah Smeyers, Goedele Uyttersprot, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Sabien Lahaye-Battheu I propose that a single discussion be devoted to this bill and these legislative proposals. I suggest that you have a single discussion on this bill and these bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u4	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Miller is the rapporteur, but Mrs Temmerman asks for the floor on the order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u5	For your information, Mr President, I would like to ask you the following. About receiving the budget books, you said yesterday that the day was still a long one. (microphone crashes) Boycott! Mr President, did you finally receive the budget books yesterday? (...): By mail?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u6	By mail, yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u7	The budget books have not arrived, Mrs Temmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u8	Thank you for that statement, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u9	I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Miller.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u10	Mr President, in agreement with my fellow co-rapporteur, Mrs Smeyers, we refer to our written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u11	Mr President, I very much regret that on such an important issue for the judiciary, which is so important to the people of this country, the rapporteurs do not think it useful to mention the interesting discussions we have had in committee. I find this really weak and very light in relation to the judiciary. However, Mr President, before my group intervened on the substance of the matter, I wanted to speak to the Minister of Justice. Minister, we truly regret that you did not have the strength to defend within the government a budget worthy of the name for justice. This department, your predecessors whatever they were defending it, by allowing it to have a significant budgetary increase or an exception to the savings foreseen in the budget of the public services of the State. You have not had that strength and the current budget, both in terms of operating costs and personnel costs, is totally insufficient to enable the judiciary to function normally. Moreover, on the ground, actors are plagued by anger or even despair. Everyone will remember that on 20 May last, the first President of the Court of Cassation spoke in the newspaper La Libre Belgique. He accused the State of carrying out "a disastrous policy of dewatering public service personnel, including the judiciary, whose autonomy is more than threatened. It looks like the state has chosen to dismantle its own justice." These words are strong. The first president of the Court of Cassation is not known to speak lightly. I should like to stress this at the start of our work. In early June, Brussels investigating judge Michel Claise, a specialist in financial crime, said he was totally desperate. He denounced some of the guidelines of the Minister of Justice concerning, among other things, the role of the investigating judge, all the more so, he said, that the prosecutors were completely boned out by lack of means, and that they closed hundreds of cases without follow-up when the perpetrator and the victim were known. In recent days, we have heard appeals from, among others, the Brussels Family Court, with a letter from magistrates to the Minister of Justice. We no longer want, say the magistrates, to remain the silent window of a shop in full liquidation. It is not a member of the opposition who says so, but judges of the judiciary who do their jobs on a daily basis. Juvenile judges threaten to release minors appearing before them because they no longer have the means to function. These are cries of despair that we must all hear in this chamber and you first. Despite this, the magistrates, the experts, have decided to try to participate in the work of justice, in the work of the reforms. A Journal of Special Courts was produced with ideas from all over the judiciary to try to participate in the reform work within the framework of the agreed economies. In the Justice Committee, in recent weeks, their representatives have come to speak, to try to understand, to modify certain elements so that they can continue their work on a daily basis. That is why I find that the decision of the majority, your decision, Mr. Minister of Justice, to refuse to hear anyone, to refuse any amendment, even minor, is a serious defect to these judicial actors. Today, my group will intervene in substance, as it did during all these days of study in the Committee on Justice. He won't use the flabbus, but he'll argue. We wanted to tell you, Minister, that your refusal to hear the actors of the judiciary can be seen either as indifference to them or as weakness to some members of the government and the majority. In both cases, by this attitude and method of work, Minister of Justice, you weaken the judiciary. We will fight to the end, by his side, for justice to be done to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u12	Mr President, I did not very much appreciate Mrs Onkelinx's remark. If we have referred to our written report, it is because it is highly technical. We could very well have developed it in the rostrum, but we felt it would be better to open the debate. At the parliamentary level, however, everyone works as he or she sees fit. I would like to say to my colleagues that I have not missed a single minute of all the work that took place in committee and that I have followed them. This has not been the case for everyone!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u13	Your (...) silence was also deafening there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u14	Mr. President, Mrs. Onkelinx, I have a quiet conscience. You want me to understand that I don't have the strength to defend the judiciary, when you know that the opposite is true. To this extent, I do not take it personally. In addition, I believe I have done everything in the past 12 months to ensure that justice and the judiciary can function better than before. Mrs Onkelinx, you know the strength that I had to have to find the 150 million euros that have been able to absorb all the arrears in court costs and that have been put on the 2014 budget. This EUR 150 million allowed us to give a huge oxygen bubble to the 2015 budget. Indeed, this EUR 150 million, which should have been put on the 2015 budget, represents almost 10% of the Justice budget. On the other hand, you are also aware that, on 9 December, the first day I came to the Justice Committee, I said that I would make sure that the rate of savings, imposed at 4% by the government declaration for 2015, would be reduced to 1% for the judiciary and justice system as a whole. Here, too, the Prime Minister would say: "Parole held!" No less than EUR 37 million (oxygen) has been allocated to the costs of judicial staff. Mrs. Onkelinx, since I took office, I have made 800 vacancies in the judiciary and 37 million have served this year only for more than 100 positions in the judiciary. Even yesterday, the Finance Inspectorate authorized me to declare 50 vacancies for judges for the month of October. Also, don't tell me I don't have the strength! Last weekend, together with other ministers - I am not the only one who is brave; do not underestimate the government as a whole, Mrs Onkelinx! - I obtained for my department in addition to everything I had already received for staff and arrears an investment credit of 32 million which I can still commit this year for information technology and infrastructure. The files are being introduced to the Finance Inspectorate. State Security, Ms.Onkelinx, can recruit an additional 80 out of a staff of only 500 for 2015. So don't tell me I don't have the strength to defend the judiciary and the services that I have. As far as the Brussels (French-speaking) Court of First Instance is concerned, we have together - and to the extent that we have made mistakes, we are all guilty - decided on the division of Brussels- Hal-Vilvorde. You and we are responsible for the consequences of the decisions we made at the time. But let's be serious! The Brussels cadres were expanded at that time. I spoke to youth judges, because every fortnight I receive a letter from youth judges, family courts, investigating judges. I showed them the executives and told them that every month I was being asked at the government level about the filling of Brussels executives. I have an obligation to go towards 100% as soon as possible. But how is it that by doing all these recruitments, managers don't fill up more and I don't have enough candidates? But let's be serious! Of 122 French-speaking judges in Brussels, 117 are present. Of course, it is not 100%, but I can give you examples in the country where this rate is much lower. Why isn't there 122? The reason is simple, there are not enough candidates. For the Registrars and for the Registry staff, we are at a filling rate of 85-90% in Brussels, after all the departures that have taken place. This was included in the newspapers as well as in the press release that the youth judges released yesterday, there are many clerks leaving for the province and I cannot hold them back. I would like to repeat in the "pot-pourri 3", which I hope will be approved next week by the government, the fact that the transfer of registry staff is only possible after having held a position for three years. Today, because of the agreements that have been made with registry staff and unions, the transfers are total, we can move at any time. This means that at the time when vacancies are published, we must first organize a transfer tour. After this round of deployments, we can make the Registry vacant. In all, it takes nine months between my decision and the appointment! I'm not the one who created this gas plant, Mrs. Onkelinx! I am extremely grateful to you for being willing to discuss the substance of things today but do not say that I do not have the strength. Your introduction led to the conclusion that I had not had either strength, dignity, or respect to listen to the experts. I do not know if all ministers are still present in committee, but I have listened to all the experts at the hearings that you have organised. Before the debates in Parliament, I had the opinion of the Court of Cassation, the opinion of the College of Headquarters, the opinion of the College of Attorneys General, the opinion of the National Council of the Judiciary, the Order of French- and German-speaking Bar Associations and the Flemish Bar Association. I had all these opinions! I've listened to many teachers! At the time you asked for hearings, we already had the opinion of the Council of State. You know that the most important expert we would have wanted to hear was Mr. Englebert. Mr. Englebert is a member of the Council of State. You blame me for things I don't accept. Mr. Englebert wrote this opinion of the Council of State with respect to these elements. We have followed the Council of State on almost everything but three points and we will return to them. As far as the other experts are concerned, I have read here and there in the press some remarks which surprised me. I don't want to name names. We will come back to that earlier, too, but let us take Article 867, the great stumbling block for some experts who appeared in the press. This gentleman later stated that he had not been followed by the minister, but the committee voted on Article 867 by 11 votes to one, including the socialist votes! As regards Articles 860, 861 and 862, they were voted unanimously. How can we say that the experts were not followed? No, Mrs. Onkelinx, that's the truth! He was the only expert who spoke in the press. There is the OBFG and with it I get along very well and everyone plays their part in this game that is ours, but don't tell me that I didn't have the strength to defend justice and justice. I do not accept this criticism!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u15	Minister, first of all, you have defended here the fact that you are getting time-consuming budgetary means to enable you to achieve your big savings plan. I'm not going to be like Mr. Van Parijs at the time, who spent his time checking whether he had done more or less, in relation to his predecessors or successors, whether we were growing a little more or not. I'm not doing that. I'm just saying that, for the first time, despite the fact that you were going to look for a little bit here and there to plan your savings plan, you didn't manage to make an exception for justice. However, the judiciary needs it. I firmly believe that with the savings that your government has programmed, it is impossible at both the personnel and the operational level to still have a judicial power that has the strength to work normally. Secondly, you say: "We listened to the experts, etc." Listening to the experts is good, but taking into account what they're saying is better. If it was just to vote the text foolishly without taking into account the important debates that we have had in the Committee on Justice where I am, Mr Miller, speaking on several occasions, then why have they been brought in? Why was it simply not warned: "It will be useless, it is the text without a change of comma". Thirdly, on the substance of the reform, you have advocated certain changes that made sense. Who says the Socialist Party is against everything you put on the table? Certainly not. There are good things. You yourself said that we had voted for one of the reforms. But it's obvious. This does not alter our observation that you are undertaking these reforms without taking sufficient account of the experts and in a tight budgetary context. Fourthly and finally, you say: "I have listened to them widely, I have obtained the means". But why are they still complaining? Mr. Minister of Justice, why on a daily basis do you have inquiries, open letters, court sessions where a minute of silence is observed to challenge what is happening at the federal level at the moment? Why? Are you telling me they're ungrateful? That would still be strong, for they must, with the means you give them, fight daily to do justice. Finally, you say that what I'm telling you is unfair, that I shouldn't point that out to you. Today, I simply expressed to you my intimate conviction that it was possible to do otherwise, in dialogue with justice, and with the budget that the judiciary should have to exercise that fundamental power in our democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u16	Ms. Onkelinx had asked me to make a statement prior to the start of the general discussion. Everyone will have the opportunity to come back and respond to it. I propose to begin the general discussion. Everyone will be well within the general discussion...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u17	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u18	Mr Ducrame, the reason is that several members have indicated to me that they want to start the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u19	Mr President, would it not be useful in future if a Member asks you to make a statement in advance to inform us of this, so that we may be able to agree to it? I think it's weird that I didn't know this, that I'm gonna be here, and then I'm gonna hear a prior statement from someone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u20	Anyone can return to it in due course. I give the floor to Mrs Van Vaerenbergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have already had a mini-debate. The Justice Commission started exceptionally early this year, even before the judicial year. I believe that this is a good example and should be repeated. There is still a lot of work to be done in the Justice Department, because we have a full programme. The designs, the so-called potpourris, should make Justice more efficient, reduce workload, book process economic gains and this through a number of quick wins. In addition, they do not affect the rights of the judge at all. Hopefully, after we have achieved some quick wins by the end of the year, we will be able to carry out more in-depth reforms in the course of this legislature. The plans for justice and the passages in the government agreement on justice are ambitious, but ambition is needed in such a department. Justice is way behind schedule. Contrary to what Mrs Onkelinx says, we are leaving behind in this legislature, because Justice has been neglected for years. The hearings have also shown that everyone agrees that something needs to change in the area of justice. Justice urgently needs to enter the 21st century. Of course, this is not easy in times of budgetary tightness. However, not only for budgetary reasons, but thanks to its positive process-economic impact, this draft will lead to a better use of available resources. I think, perhaps unlike others, that we should not be too pessimistic either. We must try to turn the budgetary squeeze into an opportunity, because we will have to make choices in the area of justice, even if it is sometimes difficult to make choices there. Just giving more budget to Justice, that's not the solution. It is also necessary to make changes to the legislation which brings about a profit in the process and which also benefits the rightful person. I am thinking, for example, of speeding up the process of obtaining a judgment in a dispute. This is also evident from the court barometer: This is experienced as a major pain point by the seeker. My group believes that this draft is a first step which can contribute to better justice. As far as the work of the committee is concerned, I would like to talk about that. Before the parliamentary recess, we decided to start our work earlier. We organised two full days of hearings. All the experts requested by the opposition were also allowed to come to the committee. All questions could be asked. The chairman has given the floor to every expert and committee member of all the parties present in the committee, and that may well be said because not even all the parties who may be criticising today were present in the committee. The debate was completely exhausted and amendments were accepted after the Council of State had given its opinion. Almost all the comments made in the opinion of the Council of State led to adjustments. Amendments were therefore accepted and some amendments were even co-signed by the opposition. I will not go over all the points in the draft potpourriwet, because that has already been done abundantly in committee. I will, however, take a number of points out, to point out that this draft will lead to a more efficient Justice. Mr Uyttersprot will deal with a number of points later. I'll start with computerization. According to our party, computerisation is a very important point for Justice. In the overall plan for computerization, we have already been briefed by the Minister for Parliament's recess. We will have a debate on this in committee next week. The draft potpourri law provides the basis for enabling electronic communication between the actors of justice. In practice, this creates two birds with one stone. First of all, this is a first step towards getting rid of the paper age at Justice. Secondly, this government is finally cutting into the ports of justice, which in this country still amounts to more than EUR 20 million a year. The final objective should be to switch to full electronic file management. It is in the interests of all parties, both the seeker and the lawyer as well as the Justice itself, to make everything more efficient. Even though Justice has come a long way, a recent visit to the Court of Appeal in Antwerp has made it clear that in practice computerization is being used hard. Good initiatives are being taken. One is asking oneself to move on to more advanced computerization. A second point is the harmonization of nullities. You mentioned it yourself, Minister. As a result, a lack of form will lead to nullity only if it has caused damage to interests. We welcome the aim of this intervention because it involves a deformalisation of legislation. Less, but simpler rules where it can be done. The purpose of the rules of law is to ensure that the process is conducted correctly and should not be an end in itself. Needless to say, formalism must be avoided. The reform of the rules on nullity will make our civil procedural law simpler and thus clearer. A third point concerns interim sentences. It will no longer be possible to bring an immediate appeal against the judgments before the courts. That is a good thing because such appeals delay the procedure and result in the transfer of the case to the court of appeal, which has to decide on the rest of the case at first and last instance. In addition, the court will only be able to order an investigative measure if the action in question has already been declared admissible. This measure is again an example of process-economic profit, because what use has an expensive expertise had when the case is declared inadmissible after an expert opinion. Furthermore, the draft also provides for the adjustment of the suspensive effect of the appeal. The judgment at first instance will henceforth be enforceable in the case of stock unless the court decides otherwise, with the exception of judgments in family matters. The advantage of this procedure is that no more appeals are brought simply to delay or delay the execution of the judgment of the court. The procedure also improves with regard to absenteeism. We have discussed this in detail in committee, in particular the role of the judge, which is public policy and so on. As a general rule, sentences may also be carried out for 10 years, except in default, which must be served within the year in order to remain enforceable. There too, there is intervention on an unnecessary and unnecessary formality. In this case, default sentences will also be enforceable for 10 years without service within the year and without having to refer again unnecessarily to the court if the default judgment was not served within the year. Another aspect of the draft is to increase the limitation periods of 15 to 20 years for crimes punishable by life imprisonment or crimes committed against a person less than 18 years of age, without prejudice to the possibility of suspension or interruption. The extension of the limitation period shall be in accordance with the coalition agreement. More specifically, through the application of that rule, we will now make sure that two important issues, namely Remes-bis and the Gang of Nivelles, do not lapse. In the first case, the unsub will not escape his sentence and in the second case, the possibility remains open to find and punish the perpetrators. Finally, I would like to mention the reform aimed at reducing systematic intervention by the public prosecutor. All cases are still notified to the Public Prosecutor, but not every case will automatically receive an opinion from the Public Prosecutor. We are aware that the Public Prosecutor's Office has a very important advisory function in many cases, but on the other hand it has to give advice in many cases where this is not always useful. Now, however, the prosecution must do so. In this last category we want to intervene. The state's attorney's office itself is talking about time savings. This time saving can then usefully be used on other public prosecutors' priorities, such as the fight against crime. In addition, the judge may still apply to the prosecution for an opinion in social law cases and cases concerning minors. Ladies and gentlemen, my colleague, Goedel Uyttersprot, will come back to some important aspects of the draft law. I conclude by saying that this first draft contains a number of good measures that will lead to better, more modern and more efficient justice, with the aim of regaining citizens' confidence in justice. I hope that we will soon be able to start the next potpourri law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u22	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we in the Justice Committee have had interesting debates, interesting hearings and criticisms, including those on these hearings. I have just heard the courteous exchange between my group leader and the Minister of Justice. Mr. Minister of Justice, when you gave us your general policy note, you told us about the budgetary difficulties that you were facing, which the world of justice had to face, about the budgetary difficulties that you found difficult to overcome. You shared your willingness to make a difference by accelerating the treatment of proposed reforms and reversing the logic of savings in the functioning of justice. Thank you for coming to your end. Indeed, you have been able to change this logic of savings, less while waiting for the reforms to take place to reach more at the end, that is, at the dawn of 2019, when we will have to meet before the voter. In your policy statement, you informed us of the various pots and pots you intended to put in place. We know that moving the ship of justice is not simple; I am not going to say that it is a drunken ship, or that it is the Titanic, although, on the budgetary side, we can ask ourselves questions. Why aren't things easy to change? I think it was Mrs Cadelli, president of the Association of Magistrates' Union, who told you and repeated it at her hearing. It is the procedure that constitutes a guarantee and a lock to human weaknesses and connivance with a party. The procedure. Whenever one touches on a procedural element, whether it is in civil or criminal matters, one risks, either out of desire to move forward, or out of weakness in the budget, or simply out of willingness to make commitments, to make mistakes. We know how delicate, difficult and particularly weary the principle of reparation laws is for the judiciary, given the number of reparation laws that exist, paradoxically often in the area of laws that affect the organization of justice. You told us that collaboration could be implemented. We went, in good faith, to committee in order to collaborate, to try to move the Schmilblick forward. We believe that it is better to have good cooperation in order to achieve a good improvement in the texts, rather than to find ourselves in this confrontation, which sometimes seems sterile, between the majority and the opposition. Justice is much better than that. You also told us that opinions would be taken. You just confirmed that in this courteous exchange with my group leader. You know I don't have the same reading. But I'm not mad at you, it's a good war. However, with regard to the commitments you have made, a first step has been taken in response to your desire for good cooperation with the addition of amendments to the civil procedure, including an amendment to the limitation period, to which my colleague Özlem Özen will return shortly. You will agree that you put the knife under our throat saying that it must be published no later than October 23, otherwise there will be problems in making one of these two changes. We really believed that one of the two changes could make improvements. The other amendment appears to be an emergency or even an exception law. Joining the two seems to me to be a breach of your promise of good collaboration. In spite of everything and the fact that hearings were planned, we decided to play the game, however – and that was our feeling – that the proposals of the people interviewed could be taken into account and that amendments could be accepted. So we were going to work during the holidays, were they judicial, were they too long for some. We used the end of the holidays, that is all of September, to carry out the analysis and evaluation of the file. You are telling me that you have listened to the experts and that you have received opinions from the Court of Cassation, the College of Attorneys General, prosecutors of the King, the National Council of the Judiciary, the College of Courts and Courts, Advocates.be and the OVB and that you have taken into account the opinion of the Council of State, apart from three points. In short, you have taken everyone's opinion into account. I therefore assume that you have greatly improved a text, the one that you and your services had originally imagined. I repeat, I don't quite have the same reading as you. I do not take up all the opinions of the experts here, nor do I want to read everything again. As Mrs. Onkelinx told you, we don't want to do "flibus." We have decided to work together. We have done so in committee, and we will do so in plenary. However, when I read the opinions, I think that Mrs Matray's Honorary Adviser to the Court of Cassation and Mrs Lefebvre, President of the Hainaut Court of Appeal, cannot be suspected of not wanting to improve the justice system. Nor can we suspect Mr.Desmecht, President of the College of Courts and Courts, nor Mr.Vrancken, President of the Royal Union of Justices of Peace and Police. And I'll give you Mr. Boularbah because you may have a little litigation with him, though... sometimes we have a divergence of views on an article of the Judicial Code relating to the statute of limitations. Still, Mr. Boularbah questioned one or the other element. All came to committee with proposals for improvement. Some were not included in the text, including those of Mrs Matray and Ms Lefebvre. In my view, they could have been the subject of an amendment. They were relatively easy. We wanted to add a bill and, given that there was a computer problem, you were even told that the coming into force could eventually be postponed. No, we disagree, though, when it was a proposal that seemed interesting. Mrs Matray had suggested that the courts of first instance should abolish the control of civil registers, as it would have saved time – as you wanted. This was not accepted, as was the requirement for appearances in cases of divorce by mutual consent or additional proposals for cost-effective reforms. Similarly, some criticisms have not been heard, in particular with regard to the default judgment or the summary order for payment procedure. I'll come back. You'll excuse me, but I don't have exactly the same reading as you. You may feel like you've listened to the experts. Yet they feel that they have not been heard. This is also our case, as members of the opposition. In your opinion, this reform is either to be taken or to be left behind. Of course, we have had excellent intellectual exchanges. I will quote Mr Desmecht: "As soon as he took office, the minister declared that his mission was to manage poverty. Indeed, the budgetary situation of the justice system is difficult. We have to find ways. In addition to the lack of staff and budgetary resources, there is a lack of quality." Here we go. That is the heart of the debate. You have acknowledged the existence of budgetary problems and have tried to reverse the trend by giving guarantees. If the question of the imprescriptibility of a crime had not been included or, in any case, the extension of the statute of limitations – even if the Council of State told you that it had almost come to imprescriptibility – the texts could have been improved and sought consensus from parliamentarians and judicial actors, putting their hands in the cobblestones in the courts and tribunals. They would not have been subject to appeal – announced by some speakers – to the Constitutional Court or to clarification in the head of the Court of Cassation. One could have simplified, without compromising the rights of the parties. A faster and more effective judicial process could have been available, without compromising the quality of justice. I agree and you will agree, but I don't want to ruin your pleasure. There are also positive elements. Some speakers nevertheless come to ask themselves questions about elements which I personally consider to be positive: the e-box, the ease of service changes, the communication limited to the lawyer when referred to in a file, the exclusion of the appeal of judgments before saying right. We have already had the opportunity to tell you in committee, and we confirm that. Attention should be paid to effective implementation, particularly in the context of electronic communication. The president of the College of Courts and Courts said, however, that it was to be feared that ordinary letters might prejudice the rights of the accused in enforcement. I ask you to pay particular attention to this. I cannot help but confirm to you that many of the provisions and many of the projects put on the table are endangering the rights of litigants. As I have told you, justice is there to ensure a balance between the defendant and the plaintiff, both of whom must cooperate in the work of justice; a balance between those who are necessarily to be protected and those who do not need this protection; a balance between those who have the means and those who do not or do not have the means. The means are not always financial. Savings, savings, savings, unfortunately! When we talk about savings, we talk about the potential threat to the rights of the justiciable and the rights of the weakest. I will not repeat everything, but some elements need to be put forward. I come to the conclusions, to their structuring and to the motivation of judgment. You have already made several points in the debate. It is true that the parties must be held accountable. It is also true that, constitutionally, the judge has an obligation to give reasons for his decision. At times, one can say that one goes a little far; it may not be appropriate to punish a magistrate because he has not responded to all the arguments in terms of conclusions, especially since, sometimes, the latter are particularly – let me use a French term here, which I hope will be understood by all, without it creating any problem of translation – absconses. It's old French, you'll excuse me. As a practitioner, I have already asked myself questions, reading the conclusions of my opponents, telling me that I don't understand what they want me to do. I put myself in the place of the magistrate who must be faced with great difficulties. In civil matters in the broad sense, i.e. civil law, commercial law, labour law, 95 or 99% of practitioners already structure, even if, sometimes, there are pen errors or simply the mind is not necessarily clear. However, is the magistrate going to save time? No. That's what most of the experts who came here say. It is wrong to believe that the magistrate will save time, and therefore the possibility of making more judgments, simply because the parties will be forced to structure. The Council of State also tells you to pay attention to the fact that this is a recommendation and not an obligation. You need to confirm that this is a recommendation. If this is an obligation, I would remind you of a passage from the Constitution: "The judge is obliged to give reasons for his judgment". The judge does not have to receive advice on how to render his judgment. Otherwise, there is a risk of problems. It is a general provision, which essentially applies to the legal practitioner, the lawyer. But we can clearly achieve the rights of defence for the defendant who defends himself alone. The rights of the citizen and the right to self-defence can be clearly achieved in the courts. Today, either the magistrate or the clerk is there to act. The Registrar shall not act as an assistant to the Magistrate. The clerk is not an official of the magistrate. The Registrar is normally independent. He's here to act. The part that will defend itself, will put back a piece of paper and explain its piece of paper. The clerk must record what is being said at the hearing. The magistrate will reply to the person who defends himself and who has explained a lot of things verbally, only with regard to the elements lying on the piece of paper, even if it is a tram ticket or a card or the magistrate will have to rule out the pieces because not numbered. It is not only a legal but also a constitutional impossibility. I believe that this is evident from all the comments made by the speakers and by the experts who have come to Parliament, whether they are lawyers.be, the OVB or the magistrates who have come to explain this to you. We could exclude non-professionals, an option that is not retained. We referred to a pre-filled model of conclusions. We may not have had time to put this into practice. But by extension, these are considerations put forward by the experts who were not heard. You say you listened to them and received their opinions. They came to Parliament to try to improve the text. I don't know if they'll come back again. I note, without wishing to criticize you, that they are in line with your logic, with our logic, that of progress. Let us move on to judgments where, too, an answer must be given. "Journals shall be provisionally executed even in the event of an appeal." I do not deny that this can add value and that it avoids what is called dilatory calls. Perhaps there are two areas on which further questions need to be asked. It is obviously the law of the family with the execution of a decision which is taken for example by the family judge allowing a parent to leave for a few weeks on vacation with a child. You'll tell me that in family matters, it's often enforceable by provision, but it can create a problem. You also have the OVB (the Flemish Bar Association) who, for example, told you here in Parliament to pay attention to tax matters. You were Minister of Finance. You know that it is a serious armed arm of the State but that there can also be a serious disproportion of the means between the justiciable and the Ministry of Finance which, behind it, has a real army of highly competent jurists who give extraordinary opinions which unfortunately are not always available to everyone. But there is clearly a disproportion between the situation of each other. The great difficulty in this area is, of course, the fact that the weak will be less protected. But I'm telling you, it's true that at least it avoids something harmful to everyone, that is to say, the dilatory calls. I believe that one of the central elements of your reform calls for further comments. This is the intervention of the Public Prosecutor's Office in civil matters. We will resubmit amendments on this subject. Beyond the discussions that we have had - and it is clear that we must not repeat the whole debate - it seems to me, however, that depending on the opinions of the experts, we may try to see whether Parliament will again follow as one man the project that is put on the table. You have answered this question in committee but the problem is nevertheless on the table: in the matter of the intervention of the Public Prosecutor's Office, it is therefore the College of Attorneys General and Prosecutors of the King that will draw up a circular. They announced it, by the way. I asked the president if it was not possible to ask the minister to obtain the circular as it is available, it seems. We could have read about it. I hope that in the near future we will be able to have it in committee to see exactly what is happening. You have also just said that you have opened up a lot of places. It may be necessary to remind the Attorney General of the Hainaut Court of Appeal, Mr. de la Serna, and the Prosecutor of the King of Namur, Mr. Macq, that their figures may no longer be entirely correct. Indeed, they told us that your will was not to complete the framework, except 90%. At the Hainaut Public Prosecutor's Office, the framework is only 75% filled. For the Namur prosecutor's office, that would be 80%, according to Mr. Macq. By hearing you earlier in the courteous exchange you had with my group leader, I guess they're wrong. You will therefore tell them, Minister of Justice, that their figures are not correct. I will listen to you earlier with great attention but Mr de la Serna tells us that in some parquet floors, such as the Hainaut, the frame is only 75% filled. It should be noted that savings in justice are mainly on staff, as executives are no longer 100% filled, such as the Public Prosecutor's Office, etc. So, the agreement of the attorneys general and the king's attorneys, you only get it because you say you don't complete the executives, and anyway, if you complete them, you only do it 90%. So they think they don't have a choice anymore and then they sort out to save time. That is what Mr. Macq, prosecutor of the King of Namur, told us when he came to visit us. I can finally understand that. He has to deal with criminal cases, some civil cases... he is obliged because the law imposes it on him but the government does not give him the necessary resources. So I understand that he says that he has no choice and finally writes the circular saying: either you give an opinion, or you communicate and see what you do, and in other cases, you will do nothing at all. Do you believe that it is really constitutional to leave in the hands of the College of Attorneys General and therefore the prosecutors of the King and of the Executive, therefore of yourself, to choose the cases in which the Prosecutor's Office gives an opinion or not? Many of the speakers interviewed, if you have heard them, have indicated that this is part of the judicial function of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Therefore, we have proposed that you set this prerogative in the law, if not in the Constitution. But you wanted to ease our fears about the constitutionality of the project. We will see what the judges themselves will say, namely the Constitutional Court, since some have already announced that they will bring an appeal. However, the key point is the comments made by the speakers on the presence of the Public Prosecutor's Office. For example, in conflicting family cases, a neutral opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office on the situation may allow the judge to consider solutions that are not proposed by the parties. The family judge interviewed indicated that it was necessary to clarify, in a text other than the circular, that he should be present systematically at all hearings and in all cases, except where it concerned problems of receivables. As far as the auditorate is concerned, you state that it will continue to indaguer (as is said in law) on the files, that the balance of the parties is guaranteed, that the weaker parties are protected. You are still told that the role of the auditorate could take on another dimension. Because of the nature of certain conflicts in which these courts have to deal, one often finds oneself in an unequal relationship of forces, for example a conflict between an administration and a person who is often disadvantaged in the field of social security. Through pre-hearing investigative work, but also through the formulation of specially motivated opinions, the auditor is likely to provide a neutral view that would objective the conflict and allow for fair application of the law. By his own admission, the listener will still intervene, whatever the content of the circular, because the defence of the weakest will justify it. We could have grown all of us, minister, by hearing these opinions and by making the minor changes that were necessary. This would have prevented the prosecution from wasting time. This principle should have been included in the law, except in social security and family legislation – but applied to claims. It didn't eat bread. In this regard, the adoption of an amendment of the "salal socialist opposition" was not debilitating. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u23	I heard we had to purge the country from socialism. I can hear it, but it must also be admitted that we do not necessarily say anything but nonsense and that we are not necessarily obtuse. Let's go to the default judgment. I've already told you about the balance of the parties. I will repeat what I have said on many occasions in committee, because that seems fundamental to me. You said in committee that public order is not determined by law. If I understand correctly, it is the Court of Cassation that will have to decide and state what the judge will be able to do or not. Until now, the notions of public order and the protection of the essential interests of the parties seemed clear to me. This is no longer the case. Why can the magistrate in default do more than the magistrate can do when the parties are present? This is an essential principle of how we operate. It is considered that where a party fails to do so, it objects to the application. We're changing the principle. I can understand and accept it, but we could have made certain restrictions or given certain guarantees. When we say "beyond laws of public order up to mandatory laws", it was the necessary and sufficient protection that to accept the fact that we were changing the logic of the balance that had been put in place at the time of the drafting of the Judicial Code, or even before, and that was to ensure the equality of the parties. The most important thing was that abusive claims should not be followed up. During the hearings and the discussions, you told us that there would be no problem because the judge could do it. But as it is not clearly stated in the law, it is the Court of Cassation that will have to decide. I do not know whether in the opinion that you obtained from the Court of Cassation this problem was mentioned. I didn't get that opinion. It would be nice to see what's going on. It is true that we take the minimalist position of the fundamental mission of the default judge. Poor Mr. Fettweis. Luckily, he's gone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u24	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u25	Otherwise, I think he would have wept all the tears in his body, Mr. Brotcorne. All of them! It's rejected. Of which act! I'll cry myself, but I won't compare myself to Mr. Fettweis, don't worry. I don't have that claim, I don't know him enough. As far as single judges are concerned, I can understand that they are the judges who come to complain. They come complaining because they have to work. As one touches their status more or less in this way, one understands why they come to complain. We can have this reading grid of what the magistrates say, but we can also have another reading grid. In this regard, without taking the Association of Magistrates' Union, without taking either college of magistrates who are still in office, we had the position of Mrs Matray, honorary adviser to the Court of Cassation, who cannot be suspected of anything, it seems to me. With regard to the single judge or collegiality, she stressed that the merits of collegiality were obvious, if only in terms of legitimacy. But it believes that this system should not be sacralized, because it also has disadvantages. Collegiateness certainly allows for the training of young recruits but, sometimes, stifles vocation or creativity. She also said that, while the single judge's institution worked well, for example, justices of the peace and police judges, the fact remained that, in the context of the court, collegiality must be maintained, as there were examples where it worked well. His proposal was to reflect on how to switch to a college system. One might wonder whether the judge in question should not be given the right to ask the chief of corps to pass in front of a collegiate seat. She goes on to say that, in order to avoid arbitrariness, one might imagine legally regulating the criteria of refusal by considerations based on the difficulty of having the staff or on the fact that there would be more value to collegiality from the moment that there would not be within the court or the court of magistrates specialized enough to play the role, etc. I think we could have tried to improve the text. Don't think we're against the single judge, that's not the case. Three years is still not a disaster. You have to know magistrates, you may have to have yourself a judge's recruitment exam, which I find more difficult than the ones you pass at university. I know people who have passed it, and it's far from obvious, but they say it doesn't mean that they can make a judgment. The three years are necessary to be able to learn. Moreover, it must be said that only the president of the court, without the possibility of appeal, in exceptional cases (interest of the case, complexity or sensitivity or media character), will be able to make his decision. What do those who came to see us tell you? Watch out for the arbitrariness! The notion of arbitrariness must not exist in law, it must not exist when it comes to the function of judging. It's the most important thing. The Constitution and all the codes in place are built to avoid arbitrariness, and above all to prevent the justiciable from having the feeling of arbitrariness. I think we could have been more cautious and adopted a few amendments such as those we have tabled. We could have gone back to three years, provided for the possibility of having these chambers, provided for decisions which did not give this impression of arbitrariness, with a possibility of appeal. Sacrificing collegiality on the altar of austerity is really not a good service to be rendered to justice, nor to the feeling that litigants have justice. I come to the undisputed debts. Do you know, minister, how many debt recovery systems and procedures as such we will have in our law today, at least once we have voted and these provisions are published? Four. The system of ordinary law – I go to the justice of the peace, or to the court of first instance, depending on the size of the application – the summary procedure, the European procedure for recovering undisputed claims, the summary procedure for ordering payment and the new procedure put in place. Let's go back to Mrs. Matray. What's she telling you? As regards the recovery of undisputed debts, an order for payment procedure should be devised which is modelled on the European model, since the Belgian procedure is archaic and ineffective. And we're still keeping it! Why not delete it? We will have a procedure for foreigners, for foreign companies, a procedure for those who are registered with the ECB, and the classic summary procedure of order for payment. Everyone recognizes that this is not working well. Should it really have rushed? Could we not have kept two systems, the classic, which leads before the justice of the peace or before the court, and a new system, which would have been either the European system or the present system a little improved? No, we'll end up with four systems. As a matter of fact, one can choose which one according to his interest, when one is a creditor, and not when one is a debtor. This does not contribute to the balance between the parties, you will agree. You could have gone further and it would have been easier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u26	Mr President, Mr Massin, for the sake of clarity in this debate, you must dare call a cat a cat. Firstly, your words about creditors and debtors are correct, but this is about commercial debts, which is a very different story than for a private person, who still retains certain protection mechanisms. Secondly, Mr Massin, I have been listening to you for a long time now. I even intended not to interrupt you, but what exactly do you want? You said earlier that you want a faster and more efficient justice system, but that is what we all want here. We can all continue to dance to the tile on which we have been dancing for twenty or thirty years now. However, we can also roll up our sleeves, get started and do something. That's what we're doing here. I admit that I was surprised, probably just like everyone else, here in the hemisphere, when the Minister came up with a plan for justice. Friend and enemy were surprised. We can agree with a number of points and disagree with other points. At some point, however, it is already refreshing to consider a global and comprehensive system. That is the starting point of the whole story, in particular the potpourriwet 1, the potpourriwet 2 and everything else that will follow, including hopefully those larger very fundamental reforms. Minister, these reforms are also very important to us. However, let us try now, instead of continuing to trample around on the same tile, to gradually change small things that can lead to a faster and more efficient justice, which will also benefit the right-wing. You now make it appear that the right-wing man will be the great loser who is constantly being countered. That's not right. What the subject now experiences especially as unjust is that it takes a very long time before he or she gets a decision. In the field there are indeed statements by people who are for and against. That's always gonna happen. We have heard people from the seat, who agreed to a certain point, when the parish did not like it, or vice versa. Mr Massin, what were we elected for? In such cases, we have been elected to make the final decision, and hopefully we will make a few decisions here today. You are right that we should continue to listen to the people on the ground. Above all, we must continue to do so, because they must carry it out. However, if the people on the ground do not get out of it themselves or do not even get it, then it is our responsibility to cut the buttons. You also want a faster and more efficient Justice? Your party delivered the Minister of Justice a few years ago. For many years, you have been a part of the government's policy. Then what stopped you from finally getting off your tile? That's what I'm wondering.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u27	I think you must have heard, as I did, that we are ready to move forward. We said so. It is not because we are prepared to move forward that this is exempt from criticism. We have also worked together by tabling amendments. If you find that this is happening on the spot because I do not want to move forward, I understand the reason why the amendments that we have tabled and that we would have voted, with an overall vote in great unanimity, have not been accepted. I'll finish with the order for payment. You say that you hear the experts, including the Association of Magistrates' Union which proposed a re-evaluation of the procedure of order for payment. I believe that one of the elements (perhaps even two) could have been maintained without necessarily making things easier. Indeed, the reason I asked this question is that the judge's intervention no longer exists today, unless a challenge is made. The question that arose was the motivation of the challenge. If a person says that he or she disagrees, that is not enough; he or she must explain his or her means. Many people are known, even those who are registered with the ECB, who may have difficulties. You don't necessarily have to have a diploma to be self-employed, a small craftsman or a small businessman. One is registered with the ECB and is therefore likely to be attributed under this procedure. It would have been important to have this possibility of intervention by the magistrate simply when a person contests. This is what the Association of Magistrates of the Association of Trade Unions says: "There are often difficulties with respect to the proprieties of the claim, interest, penalties. Interest rates are often necessary." But there are interest rates that sometimes exceed 24 per cent a year, or even exceptionally 36 per cent. That is the truth, including in the context of commercial claims. If the bill entrusts external stakeholders, as is the case with the bailiffs, to proceed with the recovery, it is necessary to be able to maintain control over these incidental costs. We do not have it, since it will not be the role of the bailiff to verify it. I take in particular the case of a person who says "no, I do not agree" because she may not know how to formalize that they are accessories. It would have been important not only for the protection but also for the proper functioning of the justice system, for the judge to be able to intervene without asking for excessive formalism. However, asking a party to free up all of its resources is excessive formalism. Mr Justice, ladies and gentlemen, I have finished my speech on the substance, because it is indeed a debate on the substance that was asked, even if, I concede to you, it contained a little form, when I addressed the consideration of the proposals of the various experts. I hope, moreover, that these will return to Parliament because it was very important and very useful. We have had an excellent light that will perhaps make it possible tomorrow to move the case law a little further in relation to your project. I do not doubt for a second that it will be voted on. That is the meaning of my intervention. We will still table amendments. You have the opportunity to vote on them, although I understand that we are clearly in a war of trenches between majority and opposition. Yet we were willing to build bridges between you and us. We extend a hand to you. You still have the opportunity to take it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u28	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on 18 March 2015, you came to the Justice Committee to present your Justice Plan, through which you presented the outline of your policy for the four and a half years of work that remained at that time in the government. You then consulted, already in the framework of this Justice Plan, but you announced some guidelines to try to make justice more effective, correspond to the challenges of today and tomorrow and – we must be able to say so too – can be integrated into the budgetary effort demanded of all citizens and our country. And you kept your word because, a few months later, you are here before our house to introduce your first "pot-pourri I" bill, which includes many important developments for justice, we think, more efficient, faster and which ultimately responds more to the expectations of the citizens. Time will allow us to gauge the reality of these three objectives. We believe in this and, for this reason, we obviously support this project. As chairman of the Committee on Justice, I would like to thank all the parties that have played the game of serious work. We have avoided the urgency, we have, contrary to what has been said in a certain press, not taken three months of vacation, but three weeks. All parties contributed positively to the work, the majority as opposed. Mr Massin, Mrs Onkelinx, you have not been a waste of speeches to move the debate forward. For all these aspects, I want to thank you, as well as for not choosing to play a procedure that would have delayed our work. On the other hand, you will easily understand that what you described as "the deafening silence of Mr Miller" was not one, Mr Miller was an attentive rapporteur. [[Applause]] I prefer these courteous applause to that expression earlier. Thank you. As chairman of the Committee on Justice, I made sure that I asked for a second reading, which was in line with the agreement that had been reached. Minister, you're also a university professor. I had the feeling that bringing us back in August was a little reminder of our second sessions. There was not a lot of people in the buildings at that time, but for several days we benefited from an update of our knowledge through the hearings. It wasn't pointless. I have heard the debate on the value of these hearings. They are there to inform parliamentarians, to make improvements to texts and to enable all parliamentarians, who are not all practitioners of the subject matter, to be able to react with amendments and questions that can be asked between parliamentarians or the minister. I note that all the questions asked have been answered by you. The rich and serene debate which was held for a few weeks in August and September met that objective. If I have to summarize your first "pot-pourri" bill, two words come to mind: responsibility and trust. Indeed, through the measures that are put in place, you give the judiciary the opportunity to work in greater autonomy because the texts do not go to the end of an obligation that could be provided for in the law. But you give judges the opportunity to appreciate, on the basis of their experience, whether or not to follow a particular procedure. Responsibility, too, since when you make decisions, you have responsibility for them. The first element of responsibility is the relationship between the lawyer and his client. Now, it is considered that an election of domicile is made at the lawyer's place of business. So the transplants will be relieved of their work. This is the goal for better efficiency and to consider that with a little less staff, we will do just as well. It will be up to the lawyer to have the rest of the notifications made by the registry. In terms of reasons and conclusions, it is not unusual to consider, in order to avoid remedies that lengthen the answer that the defendant expects to answer to a problem he is facing, that you have asked for a structuring of the conclusions and means to enable the judge to render his judgment more quickly and to avoid lengthy, long readings to expose if any point constitutes a means or expression accompanying the plea. It is therefore a positive step. It was part of the MR's program in this area. You have also provided for a limitation on the role of the Public Prosecutor's Office. We've talked a lot about it. Mr. Vincent Macq, king's attorney in Namur, said that, in practice, he had found that it was not necessarily mandatory, useful and efficient to systematically resort to the presence of the public prosecutor when cases were pending in civil law in general. You have provided for two exceptions which seem to us to be a balance compared to the weakest. In the case of the family court and in the case of social matters, the two elements are found: that in this case, at the request of the judge, the public prosecutor will be obliged to give an opinion. We believe that security is present. Accountability! Why? Since all cases are referred to the Public Prosecutor's Office, it is up to him to consider whether he intends to act freely or not, to intervene in the procedure in place. As far as the defect is concerned, the same thing. The judge was doing a job that was kind of a facilitation for the person who was not present at the hearing. In some cases, it was justified, but not always. In this case, you are responsible for choosing a person not to be present. The defect in this case is a certain form of common sense, namely that the judge's task is to ensure that the procedural aspects are respected, that public order is respected. It is up to the defaulting person whether or not to object freely. With respect to the appeal, as early as 2012, there had been a request to amend the rules of the appeal. Here, you reinforce the force of the decision in the first instance by the "pot-pourri I" bill, since it is enforceable, which finally seems logical. Indeed, there is no reason to consider that a decision given at first instance is not enforceable in itself. Exceptions may be made, but this should not be provided for ex officio. Debt recovery was mentioned earlier. Ms De Wit has made it useful to say that we are here in a professional-to-professional relationship. There are several ways to try to recover his debt. You have imagined a new system that will have to be evaluated, like any new system. It has the merit of wanting to go quickly, to reduce the number of speakers. We have had the figures: too many debts remain unpaid within a normal period of time. Your will is to allow for faster recovery because an outstanding claim is problematic. We have lived it for several years with the debts of the State towards companies or individuals who trust the State in the field of justice. These have only just been remedied by a work of conviction that you have had to carry out within the government as part of your budget work. It was normal to give this option to companies that contract with other companies and trust each other. As far as the generalization of the single judge is concerned, it is the same thing. It's an evolution. The way in which the judiciary has been accessed in recent years requires a more sophisticated knowledge of matters. You don't become a judge automatically. There is a need for some experience and, behind the introduction of this generalization of the single judge, the training element is essential. Not to mention the accountability and confidence left to the Chief of Staff who may consider that in some cases it is necessary to move to a three-judge chamber. We have talked a lot about this in our committee work. Particular attention should be paid to this issue in order to ensure that judges are operational as quickly as possible in order to render effective judgements that respond to a clearer need for justice for the citizen. Having single-judge chambers will also allow for greater specialization of judges. This will meet the expectations of the litigants. It is indeed sometimes difficult, given the materials today, to be omniscient in all matters. This specialisation of judges can only be a positive factor. The extension of the prescription was a wish of the MR. This had been recalled by the Attorney General of Liège. Some crimes are part of the collective emotion and prescription cannot leave the necessary place to forget it. Some said it was a law of circumstances. There are, of course, two present circumstances, one must not deny it. The debate on the prescription will have to take place in a second phase but it was important to send a strong signal for this period of the 1980s very painful for our country. It also provides for an extension of the statute of limitations for non-correctable crimes against minors. I shall conclude, Minister, with some general considerations. As you announced, the continuation of the work is going to be dense, since the "pot-pourri 3" project will be presented to the government next week. I'm not discouraged. In my view, the hearings will have to continue, because the previous ones were particularly enlightening. I thank those who have taken the trouble to answer us in writing or to come and give their views in committee. They will of course still be invited to come to do so. I can understand the expressions of hostility and frustration, but we all know that the debate between university professors is sometimes difficult. Some feel that they have not been sufficiently heard. However, the votes reflect a democratic expression. Mrs Onkelinx, you pointed out that justice was in difficulty and recalled the opinions of several important players in the judiciary. They must be heard. The text that is before Parliament is a way of responding to it, perhaps imperfect - time will say so - even if I do not think so. These measures are in line with essential developments. We have talked about the single-judge chamber and the computerization that we have been asking for for years. You are right to point out that we cannot systematically look in the mirror. We obtained the government's commitment that at the end of this legislature, computerization would finally become a reality and would no longer be just that monster of the Loch Ness or a pious wish formed at every change of government. We'll pay attention to it. The introduction of the e-box should already facilitate contacts and speed up procedures. We are optimistic in nature. The challenges are enormous. As Mrs De Wit pointed out, reforms have the merit of being concrete. You have been Minister of Justice, Mrs. Onkelinx, and you know that it is difficult to move this boat forward. Several actors are involved: the judiciary sitting, the judiciary standing, but also the citizen, who - according to the figures of the Supreme Council of Justice - does not sufficiently trust the judicial world. We want to trust him. Justice must therefore be more understandable and faster in responding to citizens. They feel frustration when an answer is not given quickly enough to an injustice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u29	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat what the Minister said, in particular that the new government started a year ago. About six months later, the Minister of Justice proposed a plan, as he so beautifully called it. He had not only a plan, but also a vision in which a policy for the future was formulated. He clearly indicated that, at a difficult stage of our society, he wanted to take responsibility for finding a way for justice, together with the courts and all the actors involved, to restore confidence. During the previous legislature, we were talking about restoring trust for the right-wing people and the right-wing people, which is a difficult, ugly word. The ultimate goal is to restore trust in justice, which is important for all those who have to deal with justice, as well as for all those involved in legal proceedings. It was a plan with a vision. We have nothing to do with a plan alone, but we do need a plan to determine the course we are heading. The plan is based on a great deal of prior consultation and it has been translated into something that we are pleased to see in the first potpourri that we have seen in Parliament. Its aim is to ensure that conflicts and disputes do not remain unresolved for too long. The daily efforts made by courts, prosecutors and lawyers must land in a good and efficient Justice. We therefore welcome the draft law before us, which represents the first concrete step towards speeding up the handling of cases and achieving a rapid, efficient and fair functioning of justice, because long waiting times for a ruling are also seen as unfair. The more efficient use of procedures and resources must be sought not only in times of scarcity of resources, but always, and I think that is also an important point. Even if there are many resources available, the effort must be made to assess what is needed and what is unnecessary. I also think it is an ethical task to ensure that the resources provided by society are properly spent. The design will improve efficiency in the short term. In this respect, choices have been made. Some procedures and elements are easily digestible for everyone, but there are also less obvious choices made, all in order to increase efficiency and strengthen confidence. Reference has already been made to the less obvious measures. These include the choice of three judges instead of a single judge and the mandatory advice of the public prosecutor in family and other civil matters. Over and over again in the discussion, we have considered how to strike a balance between, on the one hand, efficiency and, on the other hand, the involvement of the weak and stronger parties in the dispute through the opinion of the Public Prosecutor and the judgment of three judges, including when it comes to family matters or when the judge asks. The President of the Court may indeed opt for the ultimate option of having three judges sit in certain court cases instead of the single judge.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u30	Mrs Becq, I hear your speech on the search for balance in order to strive for efficiency and to restore confidence. I am not convinced that, in particular, on this particular point of the need for a public prosecutor's opinion in family matters or before the labour auditorate or through the labour auditorate in the labour court, this objective is met. I remember that you and I supported in this Parliament not so long ago, in the setting up of the Family and Youth Court, what all the political groups accepted as being an added value, that is, the presence of the Public Prosecutor's Office at the hearing in family matters, at least where the fate of minor children is at stake and at stake. I would admit, in some situations, that the ex officio presence of the Public Prosecutor's Office may seem unnecessary because there is no concern. But in many cases, and precisely when the cases are the most difficult, that is, often with precarious families for which there are already difficulties in the education or supervision of children, we save this presence of the Public Prosecutor's Office, we try to hide this economy by saying that at the request of the magistrate it will always be possible, or that it will always be possible for the Public Prosecutor's Office to seize itself ex officio and come to court. What changed your mind, Mrs Becq, to accept a situation like this? It is known that, in particular, the time limits for summons to the family court will not allow an ex officio referral to the prosecutor's office because there are quotations made until the day before the hearing. Are we going to work at night to find out who the parties are? Was it not more appropriate to maintain at least the presence of the Public Prosecutor at each introductory hearing? What, in a year, allows you to change your assessment of the situation at all? We have just had a year of operation of the Family and Youth Courts. Was it not appropriate to make an assessment in the coming weeks and months, before we venture on a complete reversal of what was the unanimous opinion of this Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u31	Mrs Becq, I'm not going to try too long to convince you, but still. During the hearings, we heard, sometimes listening but not always including the speakers, but there was quite an impressive testimony about the family court. On the fact that the opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office is mandatory or not, we have all been well aware of what was going to happen with the formula you are presenting, in my opinion reluctantly. I know there's still a heart on the CD&V, I'm sure, but it's not enough to talk about it, it's also important to demonstrate it. This representative of the Family Court has balanced the workload and the fact that at some point she is well aware that with the text you are proposing, the Public Prosecutor's Office will do something else, because it will have other things to do given the means available. I am not asking you to accept amendments from the opposition. Who are we, poor parliamentarians of the opposition, to dare to improve this bible that is potpourri number one? Mrs Becq, you may have the opportunity, over lunchtime, to convince the partners of the majority. You could make a gesture for this family court, around which there was a large majority to create it a short time ago, for which we have had a testimony we can no longer enlighten, and where it is the interest of the minor that is being targeted. Mrs Becq, I do not think I was wrong when I spoke to you about this amendment which has been resubmitted. Now you have to convince the majority's partners that it is a common sense measure to ensure that, in the name of the interests of minors, you can reconsider your position on this aspect which is pellicular from a budgetary point of view but which is so fundamental in terms of real decision-making.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, to be honest, I found the testimony of the youth magistrate to be excellent. In doing so, she underlined the credibility of Justice and confirmed the quality of youth magistrates. I am also convinced that she will ask the Public Prosecutor for an opinion if she believes that that opinion can bring added value. She has shown her qualities: she is not only legally competent, but also showed her emotion for the people she is dealing with. So there's been an opening. Firstly, there is the possibility of communication and secondly, the judge can always ask for an intervention from the prosecution. She has strengthened me in my position on the matter by her testimony.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u33	We have addressed this element. It is also included in my speech. The way in which you are trying to save this attitude, the removal of the King's prosecutor's opinion from office - although he can always be asked, and he can take it on his own - was not, I told you, a miracle solution. The same magistrate to whom Mr. Cheron referred explained to us that the mere presence of the Public Prosecutor's Office at the hearing was important, in sometimes difficult situations, where parents, because of their desire or interest to be divorced as soon as possible, hide difficulties with a child, and come with solutions or proposals that are not in the interests of the child. The magistrate reminds us that he is not a party to the case, that he is there to settle a dispute, whereas the king's prosecutor can intervene as a third party, raise questions, reactions from each other, make discover that we are perhaps trying, in quotation marks, to manipulate the magistrate to make him make a decision that is absolutely not in the interests of the child. In these cases alone, it is indispensable, useful and necessary. At the CDH, we have not changed our mind: we want to maintain the presence of the Public Prosecutor's Office at these hearings where minors are concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u34	Mr President, I should like to intervene in this matter. This part of the file is really very important. At the time, under the previous legislature, when the King's prosecutor was wanted to be present in the family court, including during the introductory hearing, it was to avoid conflicting decisions. We wanted to avoid, when it comes to the protection of the child, that elements of which the prosecutor's office was aware were or remain unknown to the court. I can hear all the arguments. Mrs Schyns has reported very practical and pragmatic things. It recalls that this is a request. So we'll be appearing 15 days later. The Public Prosecutor's Office therefore has ample time to deliver an opinion. Except that, you know as I do, not all cases are dealt with by request. Much of the cases, especially when it comes to urgency, are dealt with by summons, with a delay of 48 hours. We can even have a reduction of the summons time to 24 hours, I'll remind you. The case is sometimes scheduled on the day before the hearing. Mrs. Schyns says either the King's attorney won't be here or he'll be there because he has time and we've had a shot. What's likely to happen is that he's giving an opinion. What will the parties ask for? The handing over of the file. The file will be postponed. And in order to avoid this, she says that the King's prosecutor must be kept, at least at the opening hearing. Then, when it comes to pleadings, etc., if he decides not to come to the hearing, it's no big deal. But he must at least be present at the introductory hearing in order to avoid, tomorrow, that in the cases before the family court, there is either a waste of time or parts of the files of which the court will not know tomorrow because, for a reason x, y or z, the prosecution will not come or give a written notice which will be partial or that the magistrate will be obliged to request the surrender to bring the prosecution to the hearing. At that time, we'll be completely missed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u35	Mr President, I thank Mrs Becq for her reply. We're not always used to that. What does Mrs Becq say? She tells us that she understands the problem we pose. It's already good and I'll write it down. There are ministers or representatives of the majority who do not even want to understand the problem. I therefore note the positive points. Secondly, Mrs Becq tells us that, in the text – and she presents it as a victory, but you have a modest victory, so I translate – we can always do it. Beautiful! The problem is, what you're telling us is that we're going to go to random. Just once the "may" has not been applied and the "may" will not be enough. That is the problem, and that is why it would be good to return to a situation as desired by the amendment. I wanted to say that because the "may" is not enough in relation to the stakes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not convinced that even if the public prosecutor was always present, there would be no escapes from attention and le peu, as you put it, could not be present. So I am not convinced that it would all be perfect. What is happening here today is an effective response, both from judges and the prosecution. In the story of greater autonomy and independence, accountability is a very important element. That runs through this whole design. When I hear Mrs. Schyns, I say this is a lady we have to respect. We must respect the way in which she deals with the issues she is dealing with both human and legal. I am convinced that the same applies to the prosecution, which, if it wants to take itself seriously, will have to take a stand on the ground and prepare it if it can, and if it cannot at the moment, will react to the substance by delaying it. In this way, the prosecution can also take an attitude on the substance, which may not always be possible at the hearing itself. There were indeed non-existent measures. The more obvious measures in this project include the eBox, the computerization. We've all been talking about it for so long. We all hope that this will be a magic box for electronic communication. The digital platform should save expenditure through paper communication. I am thinking of the stamps, the mail or the time spent on them, the copies and so on. We hope that this legal basis can effectively alleviate the workload of the Registry, magistrates and secretariats. There are other measures to relieve the burden on judges and to deal with a number of disputes out of court. It's about the famous undisputed money debts. I would like to reiterate that it is not about private debt but about commercial debt. An enforceable title is obtained for this purpose. It may be a bit awkward if this happens via bailiffs, but this option was taken to look for efficiency and added value. We may wonder whether such procedures have often not been put in place to achieve delays or to have discussions without actually contesting the claim in itself. In the same vein, some traditional procedural rules have been called into question, such as the suspensive effect of the appeal, which has been reversed, even if the possibility is retained. The claim of claimants in default will also be examined in a different way. They are elements to increase efficiency and speed up procedures. Minister, with this draft we are taking a first hurdle to make our justice more efficient. We give our full confidence to you and to the actors of justice, who indeed have a great responsibility. They claim independence, we also give them responsibility. That is what we want to go for in full confidence. Mr Minister, when you announced the potpourri law, it reminded me that potpourri is used as an air freshener. Well, I like to expand it. I hope that potpourri will also be able to give the necessary oxygen to justice, so that it will be closer to the citizens and so that justice is more just and fair.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u37	Mr President, on a note of humour, I would like to remind Mrs Becq that, on the French side, potpourri can sometimes be used to hide bad smells.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-16-54-plenair-ip076x.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we close the morning sitting and resume our work at 13:45. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Friday 16 October 2015 at 1.45 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Friday, 16 October 2015, at 13.45 hours.
