ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u1	Mr President, Minister, on 26 May last La Libre Belgique revealed the appointment of the daughter of the director of the Selor in the same institution, with a remuneration higher than the normal baraemic level. It's important for me to check this information. My intention is not to question that person's qualities. Rather, I would like to question the principles and ways of doing things because the credibility and value of the public service also lies in respecting the rules of jurisdiction, independence and the care given to the prevention of potential conflicts of interest. If this information is correct, it prejudices the essential reputation of the neutrality and independence of the Selor. It is not just that of the public service that is being questioned here, but that of an institution that is precisely responsible for assessing the ability of people to work in the public service. The article also reveals a series of other anomalies in Elke Van Hemelrijck's journey – since this is his name – on which, among other things, there are suspicions of favouritism. In order to preserve the Selor and the positive consideration enjoyed by its work, should we not endeavour not to mix professional and private life, to guarantee the independence of staff selection for all and for all, and strict adherence to the scales and, finally, to simply prohibit managers from being able to recruit members of their close families in their service?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u2	Mr President, Minister, both in the French-speaking and Dutch-speaking press, the last month, including via Belga and L.Echo, reported on 11 June that there was a possible breach of integrity in the selection of the daughter of Selor's delegated director. It was also reported that an investigation was being initiated. Can you tell me what's going on in this file? This coverage shows that good governance is also extremely important in the public sector. Certainly top officials have an exemplary role to play in the field of deontology with their employees and our citizens. As you know, a number of codes of good governance have been adopted in the private sector. This concerns the code-Lippens for listed companies and the code-Buysse for unlisted companies. Is it not appropriate to consider a specific deontological code for senior officials, as is the case for other professions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u3	Mr President, Madame Gerkens, Mr D.H.Haese, allow me first to say that Parliament does not discuss individual dossiers in principle. In my reply, therefore, I will not go into the individual approach to the dossier, but I will raise a number of general concerns. First of all, I will give you a few technical explanations to answer the questions concerning the Rules of Procedure. On the mix between private and professional life, the Staff Regulations provide that an officer who believes that he or she has a conflict of interest, or fears that he or she may have a conflict of interest, shall immediately inform his or her supervisor. That's right! With regard to the independence of the selections, the status of State officials is very clear: Article 8, § 1, of the Royal Decree of 2 October 1937 stipulates that "the State official shall treat the users of his services with kindness in the manner in which he responds to the requests of the users or in which he deals with the files. It strictly respects the principles of neutrality, equality, treatment and respect for laws, regulations and directives." This means that Selor's employees must, in particular, be impartial in the performance of their duties. With regard to the question of strict compliance with the scales and the question of the appointment of a person who does not hold a master's degree, Article 16, § 2, 1 of the Royal Decree of 2 October 1937 provides that the Minister of the Public Service may, on the advice of the managing director of Selor, grant a derogation from the conditions of diploma in the event of a shortage in the labour market. More generally, I can therefore say that, following the reports in the French and Dutch press, I asked the Finance Inspector to investigate possible irregularities with Selor. I submitted that request on the basis of Article 12 of the Royal Decree of 16 November 1994 on administrative and budgetary control, by my letter of 9 June 2015. In the meantime, like you, I have heard that the Federal Ombudsman is investigating a possible breach of integrity that would have occurred with Selor. The services at Selor were instructed to cooperate fully in that investigation. Both investigations are ongoing. You will understand that, pending its results, I must refrain from commenting on that matter. However, I would like to stress that if any of these investigations reveal that irregularities have occurred, I will immediately take the appropriate measures to preserve Selor's neutrality, credibility and independence. I fully agree with you, Mr Döhhaese, that our top officials have an exemplary role for their organisation and for our citizens. The proposal to create a deontological code for top officials therefore seems to me to be a very interesting proposal and a piste which I would like to examine further. What is important to me is that such a code should help to strengthen citizens' confidence in our government. It is a competence which I share with the Minister for the Budget. I will therefore, together with my colleague, Mr Hervé Jamar, see if I can take any further initiatives to this end.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u4	Thank you for your answer. It is true that our attention was drawn to a particular case, but my questions were not about a particular case. They were indeed based on the rules to be enforced and/or put in place if necessary. I am therefore pleased to know that you have requested an investigation from the Inspectorate of Finance and that there is also an investigation by the Federal Ombudsman. I really think we have to remember the minimum rules, and you know in any workplace, when we want to have healthy relationships, we avoid that the father, daughter, husband, spouse are not among the workers, especially when there is a hierarchical relationship between the people, because the notion of superior is no longer of value at that time and has no value for the other officials either, since we know that it is the daughter of the boss who is there. I really think that it undermines the ability to function properly, the image and the relations between the officials of the same department. Given the position of the Selor vis-à-vis all the services and potential workers in the public service, it is obviously important to be able to succeed. I'll come back to you on a regular basis to find out what's going on with inspections or investigations. I also think that perhaps finer rules of ethics are needed to put on paper than there are confusions that it is interesting not to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which clearly transcends the individual case. It is sometimes from individual cases that we have to learn. It is one of the few professions that do not yet have a deontological code. I very much welcome your announcement that you will take initiatives together with the Minister for the Budget. We will give them our full support. Confidence in government must be properly guarded in all areas, not only criminal matters, but also the real excesses. Deontology also certainly has a place in the civil service environment. I'm very excited about your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u6	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, on March 18, again expressing my group's concerns about austerity measures affecting federal public services, I was asking you about the budget restrictions that affect public servants. You said: "As far as the tools to measure the impact of restrictive policies are concerned, I was instructed by the government to carry out, together with my budget colleague, a monitoring of personnel appropriations. This monitoring is ongoing and is carried out by the SEPP platform, i.e. the electronic monitoring of personnel plans within the Personnel & Organisation FPS." Since then, we have been able to read in the press that your government issued on April 30th a circular intended to unblock recruitment into the federal public service. I read in an article by La Libre Belgique: "The federal government plans to lift the freeze on commitments in the federal administration. However, this lifting of the blockade will not mean massive recruitment. The planned savings of 4 per cent on staff remain current. And the departments that hire will have to fund their own recruitment. If I understand correctly, the recruitment freeze would be lifted, while last April's circular would set out "objective criteria" that, if met, will allow staff to be hired, according to this article which quoted the cabinet of your budget colleague. The federal government would therefore allow new recruitments, albeit in a very limited manner and still in the context of the fiscal standards imposed on the public service, i.e. less than 10% in staff appropriations, less 25% in operating appropriations and less 29% in investment appropriations in the period 2015-19. If I understand the operative part of this circular, the government would "responsibility" the executive official by introducing a risk monitoring, that is, a "normed methodology on the basis of which the risk of budget overrun could be reliably and auditable for all services". In short, the government would grant senior officials greater autonomy in return for the substantial effort required to ensure the implementation of the multi-year economy plan. It would therefore be up to them to implement the austerity imposed by your government. Minister, could you give me further explanation of the scheme set out in this circular? Last March, you announced a monitoring of personnel credits by the SPF Personnel & Organisation's SEPP platform. Have you been able to achieve a result? Is this the risk monitoring provided for in the April 2015 circular? What are the negative FPS and other IPSS? What will be the government's position in this case? Are you going to do any layoffs? Could you give me the exact number of officers who may have been or will be engaged in the federal public service pursuant to this circular and in which departments? Will external consultancy and expertise costs be offset against staff envelopes thereby reducing the resources needed to make commitments? The circular covers the years 2015 and 2016: what will be the situation for 2016 and 2017?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u7	Mr President, Madam, Circulars 644 and 645 of 12 May 2015 on staff monitoring lift the freeze on recruitments decided in the Council of Ministers on 19 December 2014. For the first time ever, monitoring staff budgets (recruitments, internal changes, promotions, etc.) is extended to the federal public service as a whole, covering not only FPS, as before, but also all PPS, parastatals and social security institutions, on the basis of the same agreements and methodology, which is important. For the first time, we will have an overview of federal government personnel and the associated finances and perspectives. In the past, only one in three had such monitoring. The principle of staff envelopes is extended to all public services. This is a rather radical change. Thus, governments can take responsibility for their own human resources policy in a transparent manner, in accordance with the priorities they set with their competent minister, without compromising the government's economic plan. Personnel planning and policy will no longer be developed once a year, but can be adjusted flexibly, quarterly if necessary. The procedure for conducting an appropriate personnel movement policy will be considerably simplified, so that the centre of gravity of decisions on recruitment, internal change and promotion will move from policy, including the mandatory approval of the Ministers of the Civil Service and the Budget, to the administrations themselves and their Finance Inspectors. The only condition being again that the latter comply with the savings in staff credit. With regard to your specific questions, I can say that the SEPP team is closing the monitoring of May data. Circular 645 provides that the report is communicated to the following bodies: first the Minister of the Public Service and the Minister of Budget who submit it to the Council of Ministers; secondly, the College of Presidents of Federal Public Services and Programming; the College of Public Social Security Institutions and their competent ministers; the senior officials of public interest organizations; and, in conclusion, the Chief of Staff of the Inspectorate of Finance. This report will be consolidated and submitted before the parliamentary holidays. In the event that an agency exceeds the budget, Circular 645 provides that the Council of Ministers may, on a proposal from the Ministers of Budget and Public Service, impose a new recruitment freeze. With regard to the number of recruitments, I can only repeat that it is up to the competent administration to determine the number and nature of recruitments to be carried out according to its priorities and the margins available. This applies not only to recruitment but also to promotions, for example. I do not yet have a comprehensive overview of the number of recruitments that will take place. For 2016 and 2017, as well as in previous years, the current circulars cover a period of two years in principle. A new circular for 2016 and 2017 will be issued in December 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u8	Minister, thank you for your answers. On the other hand, I am still saddened to hear that for the time being we still do not have figures on the recruitment of staff. We talked about it in March, and we expected a clear and concrete response to it, especially for public service personnel, who were afraid of layoffs. The workload is huge. I am saddened that there are still no figures and that we do not know what service will be affected. Could you give me a deadline? Maybe back in Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u9	We need to relativize. The circular is dated May 12, 2015, and I have just said that there will be a first report before the leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u10	I will not fail to come back to the issue very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u11	I don't see any problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u12	Minister, according to this weekend's press, this Friday's Council of Ministers approved your note aimed at modernising federal public services through six "routes" intended to lead them towards an "innovative and customer-oriented administration". I read that the objective would be to "do better with less". The six proposed "routes" would be to move towards a centrally coordinated federal procurement policy, to improve the collection of public revenues, the management of real estate assets, to aim for operational excellence in the areas of safety and health, and to integrate service processes into a horizontal pillar. There would also be a reduction in the number of federal public services (FPS), public social security institutions (PSSIs) and public interest organizations (PIOs). The operation would be led by a monthly steering committee with the Prime Minister and the ministers concerned, and accompanied by an external expert(s) recruited through a public procurement. Minister, public services are essential to ensure a fairer society and to contribute to a quality of life for all citizens. The objective is, more than ever, the quality of the service rendered in accordance with the values of public service. Effective administration is an administration that meets the objectives assigned to it. Moreover, it is efficient if it uses the means at its disposal in an optimal and sustainable manner. However, I wonder about the real goal that your government is aiming for through this project to optimize the federal public service. The slogan that you use to define the objective of the process you are initiating raises all concerns, especially when you see the budget cuts you are imposing on federal public services! Minister, could you give us a more complete presentation of this process of optimizing the federal government? Explain to us how you intend to "do better with less", especially when your colleague, Koen Geens, says in La Libre Belgique of 27 July 2015: "I don't see how public spending can be further reduced. There may be a way to make a small economy here and there, but we must remain reasonable. We have already achieved a 20% reduction in operational and investment costs. I think we've reached the limit." Subject to further explanation of the means used, I have no problem in improving the purchasing policy, the collection of public revenues and the management of real estate assets, which the previous governments had already initiated. On the other hand, I wonder about the route to operational excellence in the areas of safety and health. That deserves clarification from you. Is your goal the creation of integrated security hubs, bringing together the interior, police and justice? If so, what will be the multiple impacts both in terms of operating methods, statutes, working procedures, the compatibility of competences currently complementary but each requiring genuine independence of functioning in terms of law and democratic principles? Otherwise, how do you envisage this pole and what would be its added value? In addition, I read that there would also be a reduction in the number of FPS, IPSS and IPOs. What about it? What is the real objective: an improvement in the public service or a reduction in staff? What will be the added value for citizens and businesses? Is this a priority with regard to the repositioning that these institutions must carry out with the federated entities of the sixth reform of the State? Could you also give us further explanations of the process itself? What's the timing? What is the purpose of administrative contracts if administrations are to restructure? How will public servants also be involved in this process? How will the social partners involved in managing SPIs be involved in the process? Who will accompany the process? Will you again call on overpaid outside consultants? What are the planned budgets? Given the importance of this process of optimising the sustainability of public services and its certain impact on its users, I ask you to keep Parliament regularly informed of its monitoring and results. My group will be particularly attentive and vigilant in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u13	Mr President, dear colleague, last Friday, the government made an important decision on the modernization of the federal administration. This decision is an important step in the evolution of the federal government towards a modern, innovative and user-oriented administration. Efficiency is essential here. Six concrete and determined projects will, in the short and medium term, yield tangible results to enable, as you said, to do better with less, but above all to do better and smarter. This is about the six projects that you mentioned in your question. So I will not take them back, but they are, in fact, pilot projects. This allows the government to introduce a consistent approach and to implement a series of internal changes as well as other administrative improvement routes initiated in a gradual and balanced manner. These are therefore specific approaches. We decided not to lead a global project as was the case for Copernicus, but to start with these six concrete and ambitious projects. As a first step, several crucial processes will be optimized. On the basis of the latter, consideration will be given, in parallel, to structural organization through a substantial reduction in the number of federal entities. With this approach, we are committed to delivering concrete and positive results for everyone, i.e. for citizens, businesses, and civil servants. We want to achieve several objectives: to provide better service to citizens and businesses who experience a coherent approach through the process, to increase the satisfaction of employees who will have a better overview of the service that really needs to be provided to citizens, to achieve savings through improved efficiency, to strengthen and anchor knowledge around a service end to end in an environment where a large proportion of public servants are called on to go to the pension in the next five years. In terms of security, for example, and more specifically with regard to prevention, crime control and challenge, there are many points of interaction between the police, prosecution, transport and courts and, at the outset, prisons. Each of these possible interactions may seem limited, but the optimisation of these interactions has enabled other police services to save time and a much more positive experience for the citizen. It is therefore not a path of structural change but rather a path of process improvement. For these six journeys, we first call on employees of the respective administrations themselves. We are going to use external consultants sparingly. The first projects will be initiated internally. It will then be examined if projects require external support. It is up to the various working groups to motivate the government for the budget that can be allocated. With respect to your questions about the number of administrations, it makes no sense to merge and decrease the number of FPS if the related processes are not optimized. These are processes rather than structures. It is not enough to adapt only structures to achieve efficiency and better service to users. To do this, we need to address the processes, which we do first.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u14	Minister, I still need clarification about external companies. You're going to appeal it in a second time?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u15	No. The working groups will start in-house and decide whether they need external support. The decision on the budget will then be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u16	Do you already have a budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u17	We have budget ideas, but let the working groups start first and let them define what they need.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u18	So, at the moment, you also don't know what service will be removed or reformed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u19	This is not the subject of discussion. We are clear at the level of the horizontal FPS. There is an advantage in grouping CPS in support of each other. For the rest, the processes will first be examined before deciding on the structures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u20	Will social dialogues be organised? Will trade union organisations be consulted?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u21	They'll take place when it's planned. You were well aware of what was published last week. When the time has come to embark on social dialogue, it will take place. It is important to have good relations with employees.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u22	Are working groups already organized with a view to optimisation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u23	We are now in the starting blocks. We're ready to start, but the idea is to start on October 1. There is still a need to define the purpose of each group.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u24	Will a representative of the trade union organizations be part of this working group?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u25	No, because the working group is a technical group. As soon as we have to contact the representatives...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u26	It should not be too late and submitted to them once the project has been completed. He must first be consulted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u27	First, there is a lot of work at the process level, which is not part of social dialogue. When the subject involves employees, etc., we will certainly contact employee representatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u28	And you'll let us know in committee? Indeed, this is an important matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u29	I'm ready, Mr. President, to work together. Of course, ma'am, you're in the opposition...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u30	Minister, I have no other purpose but to know your intentions in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u31	I am prepared to come systematically to committee to discuss this openly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u32	It's a big project! So we can have an overview of it. Could I have a copy of the answers you gave me? If you don't mind...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u33	There's no secret in this. Of course, if certain elements are secret, I don't give them to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u34	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u35	It is perhaps a good proposal to include this in the arrangements for the work. We can have an exchange of views with the Minister when matters are further advanced.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u36	Minister, on 29 May I received an answer to my written question concerning the recruitment stop in the federal government. In the meantime, I saw on the agenda that a question has already been asked by Mrs Ben Hamou on its adaptation, but that question is not really about the same thing. Among other things, I got a table of redundancies, by function family, over the past five years. Quite a few figures jumped into the eye. For example, the number of file managers fell from 51 to 27, a decrease of almost 50%. In addition, the number of nursing assistants decreased by 55% and the number of intervention assistants also decreased by about half. There was a decrease in kitchen staff from 78%, from 1 607 to 354 people. In addition, I found it remarkable that the number of medical experts decreased by 36% compared to 2010, while the number of medical experts fell by almost 58 % by 2012 and 2014. The number of employees in this position was not always in decline. For what reasons are there so many redundancies in these function families? What might have been outsourced and what not? At what prices did these possible outsourcings take place? In which function families are there percentagely strong decreases due to the latest federalisation process? How can the remarkable decrease be explained by the medical experts?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u37	Mr Top, statistics and interpretations are not easy, but I will try to explain it to you. The changes in the figures to which you refer I always ask you to pay attention when converting small numbers into percentages, are due both to redundancies and to changes in the system of job descriptions themselves. However, there is no direct demonstrable link to any outsourcing. For the examples given in your question, the changes are often due to a requalification of the function family. Different generic function families have been replaced by other function families that are more accurate and better suited to the actual tasks performed by the staff on a daily basis. The decrease in the number of staff in the original job family will then be offset in whole or in part by an increase in the number of staff in the new job family. What does that mean specifically for the examples mentioned in your question? 15 persons of the RSVZ were no longer assigned the Dossier Management function family, the management of technical files, in 2015. In 2015, 187 staff members were requalified from the Medical Expert's function family to the Paramedic expert's function family. In 2015, 13 persons and the function family Technical assistance assistant were requalified to the function family Guides of persons. 700 persons previously assigned to the function family Technical assistance kitchen and services were requalified to Maintenance staff in order to distinguish them from the kitchen staff. For the function family Technical assistance intervention there was a real reduction of two persons compared to 2014. In particular, this is a promotion to a higher level and a requalification of a staff member. Because the number of persons belonging to that function family is very limited, the small numbers provide high relative values. I do not have any specific figures on possible outsourcing or indications on a systematic policy of outsourcing. The tables of the Comori for the transfer of officials in the context of the implementation of the sixth state reform did not break down by function family and that exercise did not happen after that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u38	You are right, Minister, that there are sometimes rather striking differences in percentages when looking at the small figures. It is good that this was cleared out, also in terms of requalification or classification in other function families. This gives a clearer indication of the location where staff members ended up in the different job families and job titles. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u39	Mr Minister, Social Welfare Monitoring Inspectors at Work carry out inspections at companies. In doing so, they monitor compliance with the policy on well-being at work. These inspections may occur both in the private sector and in the public sector. Inspectors working in Brussels must, of course, frequently move to those places of inspection. Their employer, the government, asks them to use their own car. According to my information, there are no service vehicles for the inspection services. In return, in recent years, a mileage allowance was provided for within a certain mileage quota and in an omnium insurance scheme, only in the context of the work. Apparently, it was recently decided to switch from insurer: where that used to be Ethias, Belfius was now taken under the arm. The terms, included in the new policy, have apparently been reduced. These reductions would be as follows: the transfer from home to the first inspection in the morning will no longer be covered by the insurance, nor will the transfer take place in the evening of the last inspection home. Apparently, there is also a maximum intervention of EUR 25 000 per case of damage. A franchise of EUR 200 was also included in the policy, charged to the staff member. This means that inspectors are obliged to take a financial risk when going to the workplace. Many inspectors within the Brussels-Capital area, of course, live outside that area. It was decided that interventions in the train subscription would no longer be possible for staff enjoying that km quota. However, many officials come by train one or more days to Brussels, to carry out close inspections on foot or by public transport. On other days, they combine all movements with their own vehicle, to focus fuel consumption on those days. I've gotten this information from the inspectors. Do these new conditions apply to all travelling officials? Was this discussed with the trade unions? Is it legal, as an employer, to place part of the financial risk on the employee for the performance of the work? Is there any possibility of keeping train subscriptions for these inspectors? Are the changes that have been made to my mind final? Are there any annual reports on the monitoring of well-being at work published? Will the 2014 annual report be made available?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u40	Mr Top, I confirm that the Federal Mission Centre, the FOR of the FOD P&O, recently awarded a new contract to Belfius Insurance NV for the omnium insurance of personal vehicles of federal public service employees using their own vehicles on mission and in service. I have to say that the information you have quoted is either not entirely correct or is generally not entirely correct. First, the journey from the place of residence to the first inspection in the morning and the journey from the last inspection to the place of residence in the evening are eligible for insurance. I quote from the literal text of the contract documents: 'Does qualify: the journey from the official's place of residence or temporary residence if he leaves his place of residence for the purpose of carrying out a consignment without first going to his usual workshop and the journey from the return to his place of residence if he moves directly from the place of dispatch to his place of residence without passing past the usual workshop'. Secondly, the granting of a maximum intervention of EUR 25 000 and the provision of a EUR 200 franchise in a limited number of cases were already applicable in the previous contract of the FOR with Ethias. There is therefore no change or tightening in relation to the previous contract. In reply to your questions, I can say that the terms and conditions discussed just now are valid for all officials of federal government who are members of the FOR contract. However, federal administrations are free to do or not to do so. The decision to stop Ethias' own insurance and to join the insurance contract of FOR was taken by the administration concerned. No consultations were held with the trade unions. That is not necessary for such decisions either. As regards your question about the financial risk to be borne by the employee, it should be recalled that the principle is that the federal State is in principle its own insurer. In the context of management as a good family father, as it is called, the public employer takes out an omnium insurance in this case. The amount of the subsidy ceiling was determined on the basis of a reasonable risk and the need not to pay excessive premiums. However, in application of the Royal Decree of 16 March 2006 concerning legal aid to the staff of certain public services and compensation for the damage suffered by them, a member of staff whose vehicle has been damaged during the performance of his duties may apply to his federal employer to obtain additional compensation in respect of the amount not granted by the insurer. The cumulation of these two allowances thus leads to full compensation for the staff member. In accordance with the principle that the public authorities should ensure that the costs of the movement are as cheap as possible for the Treasury, it is normal that those staff should no longer receive a train subscription if they do not make these journeys very regularly. However, the staff member retains the right, either to obtain reimbursement of the tickets he has purchased in the context of removals from work or to obtain a claim that can be exchanged for an ordinary ticket in the framework of a service contract. The FOR contract for Omnium Insurance expires on 31 December 2018 at midnight. You also asked a question about the annual reports of the Monitoring of Welfare at Work, but that is a specific competence of the Minister of Work. I will not exceed my own powers, so I would like to refer you to my competent colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed explanation. I am pleased that the explanation you have given me is better than what I had been given orally by a number of people from the inspection. It is a pity that the information does not end well with them. Can these officials be informed again?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u42	Mr Top, the question is to what extent it is up to me and to what extent it is up to the department concerned. My services - that is my responsibility - have negotiated a contract and offer it to the public authorities. I believe that the management of that particular public service has the task of communicating it to their people. It is about daily communication with the employees. On the one hand, you say I'm not allowed to write letters to employees myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u43	Yeah, you should.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u44	On the other hand, you ask me to write letters to assure them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u45	I didn't ask you as a minister, I mean the administration. This way people can be better informed. I have one more question. Maybe I didn't get it right. Let me give you a concrete example, which might be easier. For example, if such an official goes on the job for three days to do inspections and comes to Brussels for two days where he sits in the administration's office, can I understand why he can put in his ticket for those two days, since it is not a usual travel for which he can get a train ticket? That's actually what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u46	Yeah, I just said that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u47	That's how I understood it. In fact, they are paid for their complete movements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u48	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u49	Either with the mileage fees.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u50	As always, that is the responsibility of the department concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u51	So let us say that it is the worker's right to claim mileage allowances for the movements he makes, from the workshop to the first inspection and home after the last inspection. If he goes to the paperwork all day, he gets a train ticket.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u52	I repeat that it does not prevent the staff member from retaining the right to receive either the reimbursement of his tickets purchased in connection with his place of work or a claim that can be exchanged for a regular bill in connection with the service contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u53	Mr Minister, my question concerns the law of 15 September 2013 on whistleblowers. Whistleblowers is a strange word, because in English it is about whistleblowers and that is a completely different sound. The Flemish government has been operating a whistleblower scheme for a long time, since 2004. The federal government didn't approve a whistleblower scheme until 2013. Under this scheme, federal officials who find abuses in administrations would be able to obtain such an arrangement. When a federal official assumes an integrity breach, he may report it to an internal confidential agent in the government organisation or via the Central Intelligence Point for Supposed Integrity Violations under the direction of the federal ombudsmen. Before the complaint is dealt with, a written opinion shall be submitted. The confidential person and/or the central hotline must then judge whether the question is admissible and clearly justified. Cheated reports are filtered out by that procedure. The official concerned may also be sanctioned for this. The law dates from September 2013, but only entered into force on 5 April 2014, more than a year ago. Have you made an evaluation of the functioning of the law? If not, when will that happen? The law is in force for over a year. How many people have already used whistleblower status in the federal government? How many procedures have been initiated? How many were declared unfounded? Are there any cases where a federal official has been sanctioned for lodging an unfounded complaint? If so, what was the sanction? Which FPS did that occur to? Are there any federal officials suing abuses without using the law of 15 September 2013? If so, why do they not wish to use the whistleblower's statute?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u54	On 4 October 2013, the law of 15 September 2013 concerning the notification of a presumed breach of integrity in the federal administrative authorities by their staff in the Belgian Official Gazette was published. The Act entered into force on 4 April 2014 and provides for both a reporting system and the organisation of the protection of the detectors and the organisation of the investigation itself. The central hotline set up by the law with the Federal Ombudsman has been operational since 4 April 2014. In 2014, the central hotline received fifteen requests for information. In four cases, a request for prior advice was effectively submitted. Four opinions were unfavourable. An opinion was favourable and gave rise to an inquiry. Twelve requests for information have already been received in recent months. For two dossiers, a request for prior advice was effectively submitted. In one case an unfavourable opinion was given, the other file received a favourable opinion. The reporter then confirmed his report and the investigation is currently ongoing. Of course, when assessing the figures, account should be taken of the fact that 2014 was a start-up year and until now has not been targeted on the existence of the whistleblower scheme. I can tell you that I intend, in close consultation with Minister for Budget Jamar and the Federal Ombudsman, to launch targeted internal communication to the attention of our officials. An initial evaluation was carried out. Since this is a shared competence with Mr Jamar, I will examine in close consultation with him what adjustments should be made on the basis of the evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u55	Mr Minister, the whistleblower system has indeed only recently entered into force. Compared to other countries and also with Flanders, this is quite late. For example, Britain introduced such a scheme in 1998, the European Parliament in 2000, the Netherlands in 2003 and Flanders in 2004. It is logical that in the start year 2014 and now in the first half of 2015 there is no immediate record of a large flood of questions. However, I notice that 15 questions in 2014 and 12 questions in 2015 are actually not wrong, especially since you yourself say that there is no targeted communication about them. Actually, I think it's quite a lot. Of course, they have not all led to an investigation, but we are not supposed to have a flood of whistleblowers. The less there are, the better, because that means that the organisation is efficient and good, without many problems. You did the evaluation, but you still have to discuss it with Minister Jamar. I'll wait for more information on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic216x.u56	Mr Maingain is not present and has not apologized or asked to postpone his question. His question No. 4954 shall be deemed to be revoked pursuant to Article 127 (10) of the Rules of Procedure.
