ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic199x.u1	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, my question is dated 29 May and, since then, other rescue interventions have taken place. Could you tell us about the rescues from the Belgian Navy's ship, the Godetia? What are the types of interventions? How many times did he intervene? How many people has he been able to rescue in the Mediterranean Sea? After being taken over by this ship, to which places are they transported?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic199x.u2	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, we have learned that the Godetia, a Belgian ship on mission as part of Frontex's operation in the Mediterranean, was coming to the rescue of 200 migrants lost at sea on 29 May. The information available is limited to the fact that it was a towing operation. In any case, this shows the reality of the need for intervention at sea to help those people who are navigated in more than one way. Mr Secretary of State, in such cases, what are the instructions for the ships involved in the operation? To where are the shipwrecked to: to a European port, to their port of departure? What is the status of the shipwrecked during and at the end of the operation? Are they covered by the country in which they land or by another structure? Finally, the case relates to the rescue of a vessel still in a position to be towed. What if Godetia had come to the aid of people who had fallen to the sea or whose boat was sinking? Does he then have the possibility of transferring them to his ship? What would then be the status of migrants? Could Belgium be considered the first point of entry into the Union under such circumstances? In advance, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic199x.u3	Mr President, honourable Members, I have the honour to provide you with the following information. The instructions for vessels participating in the operation are part of the extension of the Triton mission. The main objective is to monitor borders and save people at sea when receiving distress signals (search and rescue). Ships in distress are then towed to a European port in accordance with the principle of non-refoulement. With regard to the operational modalities or practical aspects of the Triton mission, I would ask you to address the Minister of Defence, Mr Vandeput, who is the competent minister. Generally speaking, it can be said that these migrants are in precarious situations. Very often they have travelled in inhuman conditions from their country of origin to Libya, where they are subjected to extreme exploitation, are abused, sometimes raped and abducted. In their attempt to cross the Mediterranean Sea, these people are often piled up in makeshift boats or overcrowded inflatable canoes. The outcome of these trips is often tragic. The exact number of migrants crossing the Mediterranean is difficult to determine. However, according to Frontex's figure, between March 2014 and March 2015, nearly 175,000 people were rescued during their crossing. Refugees rescued during a search and rescue operation are taken to the nearest port in the operational area. Refugees at sea who are boarded and taken over by ships participating in Operation Triton or by other ships such as merchant cargoes are at that time foreigners in an irregular situation. When they apply for asylum in the first country of the European Union, they obtain asylum-seeker status. In this case, the first country in the European Union is not Belgium. In the case of the Triton mission, after a rescue mission, all the refugees by boat were taken to land in Italy. It is also the first country of arrival where an asylum application can be made. That's the theory. As you know, practice sometimes differs. It's another discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic199x.u4	Secretary of State, I will ask the Minister of Defence for more information on the Belgian mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic199x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic199x.u6	We turn to question No. 4957 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux on political refugee status or subsidiary protection for persons who have infringed public order or national security.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic199x.u7	Mr. Speaker, I tabled this question a while ago; it concerns the bill that we debated this morning. I therefore consider that I have received an answer, as we respect the expected timing. I assume that the minister would not give me any additional information to what was said this morning and what we already know. I will therefore either turn this question into a written question or withdraw it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic199x.u8	Your question No. 4957 is thus converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Thoron's 4981 question is also converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic199x.u9	Mr President, Secretary of State, on 27 May the European Commission presented its European Agenda on immigration. The plan consists of several areas such as relocation, resettlement with UNHCR, the fight against smugglers and illegal immigration. It includes different phases from short to long term, the first priority being the rescue of migrants through a tripling of the resources of Operation Triton de Frontex in the Mediterranean, in which Belgium participates fully via the Godetia and we can welcome it. The relocation plan raises a number of questions, including the allocation key. Mr Secretary of State, in the light of these brief points, I would like to hear the position taken by our Government at European Commission level on migration. What about the distribution key that will be assigned to Belgium? In addition to Godetia, is Belgium considering other ways of strengthening Frontex? More specifically regarding the relocation, in the medium term, how many people would be involved in coming to our territory? Would our Fedasil structures be able to meet this request from the Commission? On the other hand, relocation concerns the processing of cases that countries such as Italy and Greece cannot handle. Not all migrants arriving in Europe are Syrian or Eritrean, some are economic migrants to whom the asylum procedure does not apply a priori. If these persons are denied asylum by the CGRA, will Belgium also be responsible for the repatriation of these nationals to their country of origin? If so, are additional budgets planned? Are new European measures envisaged to help Italy and Greece? I am thinking in particular of the systematisation of the fingerprinting of migrants upon their arrival in the European Union? This regulation is already provided for in the Dublin Regulation, but is clearly not always strictly enforced.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic199x.u10	Mr President, Mrs Cassart, I was asked three questions about this last week. Mr Dewinter, for example, asked me in plenary. A debate was also held with Ministers Reynders, Vandeput and myself. I don't have a problem discussing this every day in the House, but I already answered last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-23-54-commissie-ic199x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, I have no problem with this. So I'll go read the transcripts. I wasn't paying enough attention.
